ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u1	Mr Minister, a press release issued by your office tells us that Belgium and the Netherlands have agreed to examine a reconciliation between their codes of conduct for brewing contracts. In Belgium, this code of conduct was signed on 21 December 2015 between breweries, beverage traders and operators of a horeca establishment. In particular, it aims to put an end to exclusivity contracts often concluded between coffee makers and a brewer. Thus, it allows for a rebalancing of contractual conditions and avoids the disadvantage of small entrepreneurs. The Netherlands has a similar code linking Horeca and the brewing sector. I would like to have the following details on this approximation: are there major differences between these codes? If codes of conduct are already similar, what rules do you intend to bring together? How do you want to reconcile these codes of conduct? When would this reconciliation take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u2	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, negotiations in the Netherlands on the code of conduct for contracts for the supply of beverages are still ongoing. The Belgian code of conduct is an important source of inspiration in this negotiation. It can therefore be expected that the two codes of conduct will contain similar provisions. According to the information available to me, it turns out that negotiations in the Netherlands are taking place less easily than expected, so that an agreement has not been reached so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u3	Minister, if I can hear you correctly, it is therefore urgent to wait. I will follow this file with interest and come back and ask you a question when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u4	Question No 10254 by Mr. Van der Maelen is transformed into a written question. Question No 10292 by Mr Kir is postponed. Questions Nos 10563, 10565, 10568, 10781, 10782, 11190 and 11345 by Mrs Dierick are transformed into written questions. If I strictly apply the Rules of Procedure, apart from colleagues who have asked for their questions to be postponed or turned into written questions, or who have asked to be called by telephone because they are present in other committees, all the questions on which we have no news of their author are supposed to become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u5	It's a little hard, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u6	That would be a little hard, indeed, but that is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the problem of packaging that is not in line with reality is not new. Even if the legislation is mainly European, however, checks must be carried out to ensure the legality of the information. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 4 June 2015 pointed out that labelling should not mislead the consumer, in particular the ingredients of a foodstuff. However, it has been demonstrated by several associations, including Foodwatch and Test-Achats, that abuses are still very common. For example, companies routinely use fruit images when there is absolutely no fruit in the food concerned and sometimes even flavours are artificial. Minister, on fruit labelling, how are the controls on the consistency between labelling and the actual content of the product carried out? How many checks have been carried out by the FPS or by another competent department? How many offences have been identified in these areas? Are these offences considered misleading commercial practices? How were they punished?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Inspectorate's checks are carried out on its own initiative, on the basis of complaints or even organised in the framework of general investigations. Agents check if the ingredients shown on the package match the label. They also carry out samplings in order to verify the actual presence in the product of the advertised ingredients. The Economic Inspectorate carried out 487 checks and 369 samples in 2015 in the food sector. I do not have data on the controls of other competent services which are not under my responsibility. With regard to the cases referred to, namely the deceit on the presence of fruit, they are still under consideration. It turns out that, for most cases, fruit is confirmed. It is on a case-by-case basis that it should be established whether there is deception or not. The measures to sanction or correct false or misleading information are either the preparation of a warning report, the drafting of a report or the termination of proceedings. The fines are set at a maximum of EUR 150 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, when we read the labels of these products, especially with regard to fruit, we can see that they are aromas and that they are not fruits as such. There is indeed a contradiction between what the FPS has told you and what is indicated in product labelling. I'm a little disturbed by your answer and I'm going to go into the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u10	Mr President, Minister, consumer prices in the euro area started to fall again in February. But Belgium swims totally against the current. According to Eurostat, consumer prices in the euro area fell by 0.2% in February compared to the same month last year. In Belgium, on the other hand, there are still price increases, particularly for fish, restaurants and cafes, as well as telecommunications services. The observations of the Annual Report of the Price Observatory follow these findings. On the other hand, it does not really explain why such increases are taking place in Belgium and not in the euro area. Nor does it analyse the different layers of prices, in particular the margins taken by intermediaries. The Price Observatory has been set up to observe price increases and their composition, but also to be able to take decisions that are necessary in the event of unjustified increases. Minister, what are your decisions, or your analysis, with respect to findings on prices such as processed products, restaurants and communications services? Are you going to ask for a point analysis of the composition of these different prices so that you can finally act? What should be expected of the Price Observatory if no significant decisions are taken or its reports are very little analysed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, in 2015 Belgium's total inflation was higher than that of its neighbouring countries, Germany, France and the Netherlands. It is mainly the services, especially restaurants and cafes, and cultural services, that are at the root of this inflation gap in our country. Over a longer period of time, 2008-2015, processed food products also contributed to the less favourable development in Belgium. For this reason, I have asked the Price Observatory to analyse in detail the prices of processed food and services and their evolution. I look forward to the first results of this analysis by the beginning of June. In addition, some services such as restaurants and cafes will be the subject of extensive research. The evolution of approaches will be part of the analysis. On the basis of the results of these analyses, it should be possible to determine whether measures are necessary and which are appropriate. These measures may concern adaptation of the rules (for better functioning of the market), intervention by the Belgian Competition Authority (in the event of infringements of competition rules) or transparent information to consumers, as was the case in 2012 for energy and 2013 for telecommunications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. You obviously make the same observation. Mr President, there will have to be an exchange of views on this price problem in Belgium, which is still very recurring. For processed products, however, the increase has been higher since 2008 than in other countries. When the price observatory analysis is available, it will be important to have, apart from questions, an exchange of views with the minister and perhaps with the price observatory, if the minister agrees, of course. This would be useful because all consumers pay higher prices than in other countries. There are questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u13	Mrs Lalieux, I will take your request for the next time that we draw up the order of business. Other issues, such as social dumping, must be included on the agenda, in addition to proposals, projects and issues. But your suggestion will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u14	Several colleagues are absent. Mrs Lalieux has a question under point 37. If she could do so after Mr Klaps's, then she could go and chair her committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u15	Go ahead, Mr. Klaps! I don't have a question with me. I was chairing and I took the wrong fart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u16	Mr President, I would, of course, like to give Mr Lalieux the time to prepare her questions even better. Mr Minister, the question is unfortunately inspired by the terrible events in Zaventem and Maalbeek. The terrorist attacks have, of course, caused a great deal of suffering, both physically, mentally and, of course, also materially. The damage caused by terrorism has been covered by certain insurance policies since the Act of 1 April 2007, such as insurance against accidents at work, the BA Auto, life insurance, hospitalisation insurance and a few more. In the case of other insurance, the insurer is free to include or not to include such cover, but he must explicitly state in the general terms and conditions if that is not the case. That is a good thing. Because the consequences of terrorism are very difficult to estimate, most insurers are members of the non-profit association TRIP, which acts as a solidarity mechanism, which distributes the burden among all members and assists the government from a damage exceeding EUR 700 million. The maximum coverage caused by terrorism is EUR 1 billion, indexed, per calendar year. Once this amount has been exceeded, the distribution of the fee will be rescaled pro rata of EUR 1 billion. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Do you have any idea whether the damage caused by the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 will exceed or could exceed the amount of EUR 1 billion? What will happen if, in the same year, God saves several terrorist attacks, while the damage of the first attack has already exceeded the amount of EUR 1 billion? Is psychic damage after a terrorist attack also insured? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u17	Mr President, Mr Klaps, you have already referred to a number of points in your question. The law on insurance against damage caused by terrorism provides that for a number of insurance policies this damage is to be guaranteed. As you rightly say, insurers can join the TRIP (Terrorism Reinsurance and Insurance Pool). The insurance undertakings thus share the burden among themselves. The association TRIP has about sixty members. The full list can be found on the website, but you will have found it. In principle, physical, material and moral damage is covered. However, in addition to the TRIP vzw, there is also a Committee on the settlement of terrorist offences. This committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Insurance Committee and consists of representatives of myself, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour, the Budget and the Civil Service. It also includes representatives of the OCAD, the FSMA and TRIP. If that committee finds that the available amount of EUR 1,2 billion may not be sufficient on an annual basis to compensate for any damage caused by terrorist acts during 2016, death and personal injury shall be compensated as a matter of priority, then material damage and, finally, moral damage. This amount is composed of three discs. The first disc provides for a solidarity compensation of claims between insurers who are members of the TRIP vzw for a maximum annual amount of EUR 300 million. The second disc provides a reinsurance cover stop-loss for an unindexed amount of EUR 400 million, which is financed by the insurers that are members of TRIP. The third disc is guaranteed by the Belgian government for an unindexed amount of 300 million euros. Mr Klaps, it is too early to be able to give figures of the total insurance damage resulting from the terrible events of 22 March because the insurers' requests for intervention are not yet complete. However, on the basis of the information currently available, the estimated damage would not exceed EUR 1.2 billion. This amount cannot be exceeded on an annual basis. Therefore, for reasons of caution, the Committee shall work with percentages for the payment. The Committee shall determine, at the latest six months after the event, the percentage of compensation to be reimbursed by the participants as a result of the event, so that the total amount is not exceeded. This committee met for the first time on 28 April. At that time it was decided to temporarily pay 100 % for physical damage, 50 % for material damage and 0 % for moral damage. The Committee will meet again at the end of May, shortly, and evaluate the above percentages in the light of the information available at that time. That may be an invitation for you to ask another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u18	If you are so kind as to suggest it, Minister, then I have no choice but to respond to it. It is, of course, a very technical answer, with amounts and percentages. I'm gonna take a quiet look, but I'm sure I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u19	Mr Minister, the press has relayed the increase of "fitness" style rooms at low prices on Belgian territory. While this may sound like great news, some health and sport professionals are concerned about the savings these rooms make to be able to practice low cost. Although, according to the findings, the equipment is still of last resort, the competent personnel are often missing. Thus, a doctor in charge of the sports medicine centre of CHU Liège points to the potential risks: cardiovascular if the activity is medically not recommended, joints in case of lifting of heavy loads or poorly performed exercises, with consequences for the back, knees, patellas, shoulders, wrists, etc. The presence of professionals who can advise and guide customers is really necessary, but these centres do not take this need into account to offer an "unlimited sport" for sometimes 20 euros per month, but without follow-up. Minister, do you have any information about this situation? What about the opening of a fitness centre? Does the person responsible have to meet specific obligations regarding consumer protection? Is there a need for qualified staff to supervise? Have you received any complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u20	Mrs Lalieux, to answer your question, the existence of differences in quality between the services offered by fitness companies is not a phenomenon unique to this sector. As for a possible increase in the number of rooms at low prices, I do not have any specific information on this subject. If you have any, I'd be very happy to receive them. The Economic Inspectorate has not received complaints about staff quality or professional supervision in these rooms. I can understand that some health professionals would like to see more competent staff in fitness centres. But this would of course have an impact on the price. This problem affects public health and is therefore not within my competence. The economic regulations for which I am competent do not impose any special conditions when opening a fitness centre. I can simply express my wish that a new centre adhere to the fitness code of conduct that is applicable as a result of my initiative. Since the end of last year, 71% of the members of the fitness.be Federation are already members or have already signed the fitness code of conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u21	Minister, I didn't know there was a fitness code of conduct. I'll check it out on the FPS Economy website. The cost of social security would be higher. I will ask the Minister of Health. More and more people find themselves in sports doctors because they have a dislocation of the back, shoulder or knee and they have to have surgery. Of course, the cost to the company is greater than 5 euros of less monthly subscription. That's what we should do. I do not know whether there is mention in this code of conduct of the need for the presence of a health staff (kined to the other). Perhaps we should negotiate with the sector to try to strengthen this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u22	If I am not mistaken, we can now deal with item 18, with the Members present. These are aggregated questions about the class actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u23	Mr President, my question No. It is true that 10944 was merged with question No. 10730 by Mr Clarinval. Did he say anything? Otherwise, I propose that we hold off on this item.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u24	For aggregated questions, if the other member is not present, his question shall lapse. Would you like to wait? I do not know if Mr Clarinval will come, because I have no news from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u25	If you haven't received any news, we'll start with that question. If he had reported anything, we could have waited. However, if you do not have any news, we can work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u26	The committee secretary has just informed me that Mr Clarinval is not coming today. He let me know. His question No. 10730 expires. Mr Dedecker, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the legislation on the class action adopted in the previous legislature, of course, was preliminary. On 11 June 2013, the European Commission issued a recommendation on common principles for collective redress mechanisms for strike and damages, better known as class actions. That recommendation included a number of decisions for the Member States. First, they had to transpose the principles of the Recommendation into their national system by 26 July 2015, almost a year ago. Once transposed, Member States are obliged to keep reliable annual statistics, both on the number of judicial proceedings and on the number of out-of-court proceedings. Information on the parties, the subject matter and the outcome of the cases should also be kept. Those data should then be transmitted to the European Commission by 26 July 2016, i.e. shortly, for the first time, which will then be assessed by 26 July 2017. The Belgian law introducing an action for collective recovery came into force on 28 March 2014 and entered into force on 1 September of the same year. According to the government agreement, after two years there will be an evaluation of the law. You must now provide information to the European Commission, while we are ready for the evaluation after two years. However, our group, which was and still is in favour of this system, had some criticism of its content when it came to drafting that law. In particular, the limited scope of application was a failure for us. A de facto monopoly was given to Test-Achats in order to act as a group representative. This is an example, depending on the resources available and the will of Test Purchasing. With a judgment of 17 March 2016, the Constitutional Court partially endorsed this view. According to the Court, Article XVll.39 of the Economic Law Code is contrary to the Services Directive, as foreign entities are hindered from acting as a group representative here too. Mr Minister, are there any statistics available on the number of judicial and extrajudicial proceedings, as required by the European Recommendation on collective proceedings? If so, can you tell them? Will Belgium be able to transfer this data to the European Commission? Is there a good form of information gathering there? Following the judgment of the Constitutional Court, you will have to change the law. What is the state of play on this matter? Can we expect an adjustment soon? Will you take the opportunity to make further amendments to this so that we do not have to amend that law twice in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 March last the Constitutional Court delivered its judgment and annulled Article XVII.39 of the Code of Economic Law. The Court considers this provision to be discriminatory in that it does not allow consumer associations of other Member States to act as a group representative. There must therefore be an amendment to the law. This will happen as soon as possible. A draft text is currently being prepared. At this stage, I think it would be premature to introduce other amendments to the text. An evaluation of the law is foreseen two years after its entry into force. I'll wait for the report. There is no doubt that it will be possible to identify any gaps and aspects of the procedures that could be improved. There are currently no statistics available. However, I asked the FPS Economy to obtain the necessary information in order to be able to provide information to the European Commission by the deadline set. To my knowledge, the competent court has so far declared one claim for collective recovery admissible. By heart, I think it's Thomas Cook. A second claim has not yet been decided, but the decision will be made at the end of 2016. That claim concerns SNCB. Those are the two advances in the pipeline, if I am not mistaken. That decision may be appealed against. If this does not happen, there will soon be a publication of the decision in the Belgian Official Journal and via the website of the FPS Economy, as required by Book XVII of the Code of Economic Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u29	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You report that you are working on a draft text to put an end to legal uncertainty in this area, which is, of course, a good thing. It would also be a very good thing to ensure that we make the right change immediately and that we do not have to adapt twice in the short term, if that were the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u30	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u31	One of the things that is important to us, for example, and in which we could take advantage of the opportunity, is to extend the story to groups other than consumers. We have always advocated the idea that other groups should be able to join forces and start a collective recovery. Traders, for example, are not consumers. If they are jointly disadvantaged and damaged by, for example, the use of payment terminals...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This would be a good thing for those involved, although they are not consumers. I hope that we can find an opening in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u32	Mr President, Minister, there is a recommendation in the annual report of the Ombudsman of Insurance which proposes a stricter payment period for life insurance. In fact, the Ombudsman regularly receives complaints from life assurance beneficiaries about the delay in carrying out several operations in the liquidation of the contract. In the case of life insurance, there is no statutory time limit. Problems are caused, among other things, by a lack of coordination between the different management services, but the biggest problems arise in the insurance of the balance of debt. In situations where there is doubt about the pre-existing state of health or a suspicion of suicide, insurers shall request additional evidence. This often takes a long time to a very long time. In the meantime, however, the insured person must continue to repay the loan until the repayment of the capital still due, and this may cause serious problems. Similarly, the insurance undertaking has no obligation to pay any interest for the period between the death and the payment of the capital, even if the cause of the longer term lies with the insurer. The Ombudsman proposes to create a regulatory framework that determines the time limits for the payment of life insurance benefits. He also suggested that compensation should be paid in the event of non-compliance with the deadlines. Minister, I would like to know your views on this issue. What documents should insurance companies legally request from the FSMA today for the payout? Are there any companies that request additional documents on top of that? If so, which one? Is this problem already known to you? Do you intend to follow the Ombudsman's recommendations? If not, why not? If so, what timing do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u33	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I can tell you that there is no legal obligation for insurance companies to request documents from the FSMA for the payment of a life insurance policy. Nor does the FSMA impose the request for specific documents. I am indeed aware of the Ombudsman's annual report, in which it highlights a point of concern about the payment period for life insurance contracts. In addition, a meeting has already taken place in my cabinet and the Ombudsman was there to discuss this further. I understand that the Ombudsman is calling for a regulatory framework involving sanctions. I asked the FSMA to investigate this and to brief me on this in detail before the summer recess 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u34	Mr President, Minister, it is a pleasure for you to be so brief in playing the ball.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u35	If you're asking questions about that, I can't help myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u36	In this way we can make good cooperation. In some cases, it is really poignant, for example, for a widow who is also stuck with blocked accounts because of a succession file and is therefore particularly in trouble, at a time when there is really no need for such red tape. I am not convinced today that it must necessarily be done through a legal framework. I look forward to the views of the FSMA on this. Good agreements with the sector in many other areas have already proved to work. Maybe that's possible here, too. However, it is clear that something must be done. Again, you invite me to a follow-up question by the summer. I will put it on the agenda and continue to follow it closely. Hopefully, we'll find a solution soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u37	Colleagues, we're messing up. I'm so sorry. I should normally have given the floor to Mr.Dedecker because his question was in principle before the 25th, but I did not see it immediately. In the meantime, Mr Dallemagne is joining us on another committee. Mr Dallemagne, you have the question under point 4. I assume you'll return to the External Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I do not know whether the decision is made or not, but by 2018 Belgium should select a replacement for its F-16 fighter-bombers. The stakes are important and several criteria will of course be taken into account. However, I would have liked to have some clarification on a specific issue, namely the possible "economic fallbacks" in Belgium. Indeed, we know how beneficial the F-16 acquisition contract has been for the economy and employment in Belgium and how it has supported the development of a leading aviation sector in our country. There would have been spin-offs in the order of two to three times the investments for the acquisition of the F-16s. However, it is also known that European rules are now quite different from what they were at the time of acquisition. Several things, often imprecise or contradictory, have been said about this and the sector is concerned about it, asking politicians to clarify matters legally as soon as possible. According to some, Directive 2009/81/EC on sensitive public procurement in the field of defence and security appears to be proscending the practice of "economic compensation" negotiated so far in the most important military contracts. However, it seems to be forgotten that several exemptions are provided for in different European texts. On the one hand, Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states, inter alia, that "any Member State may take such measures as it considers necessary to protect the essential interests of its security and relating to the production or trade in arms, ammunition and war material" and that, in this context, other provisions of the Treaty (including free competition, etc.) do not have to apply. However, in order to implement this exemption, the State concerned should really justify it: what arguments can be validly used to invoke Article 346? What do other states do? What is the case law of the Court of Justice in this matter? On the other hand, although it has rarely been mentioned so far, there is also another exemption, which seems to me even clearer and which is provided for by the Directive itself (2009/81/EC). Indeed, the directive states that if purchases are made from government to government, which seems to be the case, the directive should not apply. Therefore, since it has been formally announced by the government that the purchase of the successor of the F-16 would take place "from government to government", via the corresponding state agencies, there is, in my view, every reason to believe that this exception provided for in the directive itself will apply and will therefore allow the free negotiation of these famous economic and industrial benefits in Belgium. Minister, is this your analysis? Does this exemption make it possible to negotiate economic benefits for our industry? Perhaps it was this possibility that guided the Belgian choice in favour of this "government-to-government" procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u39	Mr Dallemagne, I can tell you that the Defence Directive 2009/81 limits the possibility of achieving economic benefits when buying military equipment. As it indicates, the application of Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and/or the government-to-government procurement procedure may lead to economic benefits. At present, the legal aspects of both options are not fully clarified. My firm's specialists are studying this issue in collaboration with the appropriate FPS Economy Administration, as well as with the relevant departments of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Firm. In this context, frequent contacts have been made with the stakeholders as well as with various foreign actors, including officials responsible for industrial spillovers in small member countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u40	Thank you for your answer. You seem to say that the door is open with respect to the economic benefits. Your colleague, the Minister of Defence, responded in the same direction as he said that he shared, in broad terms, the idea I had developed on the governance to government procedure. It is obviously extremely important to be able to verify this and we will have to clarify things at some point. You say you are in contact with other European countries to see how they interpreted this directive. It would be interesting to know whether they had already provided a clear answer to that question. I imagine that you have also made contact with the European Commission on this matter. This is a crucial issue and I personally find the directive very clear. On the other hand, at European level, two legal texts clearly state that it is possible to negotiate such economic compensation. Therefore, I would find it positive that the government is quickly positioning itself as to the direction it wishes to take. I understand the prudence in this matter, but the texts are clear and we need to be able to explain to the aviation sector what is happening, so that it can be prepared accordingly and we can have a fruitful exchange on the subject. In the context of the forthcoming call for tenders, it is crucial that this issue be clarified in advance and not in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u41	Mr President, Minister, at the moment you are working very passionately on resolving the problem of repotography. In the meantime, I'm gonna ask you a question about the sister file. A study by the magazine Telecompaper shows that Dutch consumers watched an average of 105 minutes of streaming video per day in 2015. That is an increase of 60 minutes, compared to the 65 minutes in 2014, so almost double. At the same time, total media consumption has been stable for years. The only conclusion is that the consumption of loose carriers with originals and copies has been drastically reduced. By the way, that's a global evolution in audio and video. In its 2015 annual report, IFPI reported that streaming has increased digital sales in excess of physical sales. Today it represents only 39 percent of sales, despite the fact that a very durable niche like vinyl is on the rise again. In Belgium, the physical CD with 57% of sales remains strong. There is also a very large shift towards digital and streaming. That market has even grown. The number of copies required and authorised only under the statutory exception should have decreased. Digital sales via large chains such as iTunes or Fnac have the implicit permission to use it on multiple devices. One automates it even for the user. For example, there is no longer any damage caused by the exception of copyright to the home copy. Therefore, in the Netherlands legal downloads are not taken into account when calculating the damage. In the case of streaming there is of course no damage, because one does not make copies. People listen again and again and the person concerned is also paid again and again. In your answer to my earlier questions, you said that the Dutch example, whereby the exclusion of illegal copies, which are downloads from the Internet, resulted in a 30% reduction in the rates for the home copy charge, would also be followed up by us. How's that going? In addition to the decrease due to the exclusion of the illegal copies, the calculation of the damage must also take into account the shifts in the market and the time spent pattern towards legal downloads and streaming. What figures do you have on this and what impact do you expect on the rates of the home copy charge? You also stated that you would align the scope with the European Directive, as interpreted by the various judgments of the European Court of Justice. Within what timeframe do you expect to achieve this and what impact will that have on the rates of the levy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u42	Mr President, I will answer the first and the third questions first and then the second. The repair legislation for reprography will indicate that illegal reproductions may not be charged in the calculation basis of the private copy and reproduction fee. A study will also be launched, commissioned by the FPS Economy, with the aim of carrying out an objective, methodological calculation of the damage actually suffered under these exceptions. The illegal reproduction acts will thus be filtered out of this calculation. My answer to your second question is as follows. We do not currently have figures that reflect the impact of changed consumer behaviour on legal downloads and streaming on the actual damage suffered as a result of home copy. However, it seems clear that there is a certain connection. The actual damage can change in the light of technological developments. The rates should therefore be adjusted periodically. Within the home copy advisory committee, I will invite stakeholders to provide information that shows that the changed consumer behaviour has a subsidising effect on home copy operations, for example copying film on DVD or settop box. This will also be one of the elements addressed in the study to be carried out on behalf of the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u43	Minister, if I understand you correctly, you will include the marking of the scope in the repair law of other files. You're gonna do that in a package. I can't wait to see when we're gonna land with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u44	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u45	Of course, as soon as possible. That's all I expected. That dates back to July 2015, so "as soon as possible' is a correct approach. I was hoping this could happen a little faster. So there's still quite a bit of work to be done. I look forward to the study that you will be launching, in which you will have to include the usage patterns. Knowing that Belgium is currently with the highest in Europe for the per capita tax, there are only reasons to reduce this substantially. At the same time, we are seeing greater red tape. We have also seen this in the various proposals to implement the Padawan judgment. The burden is increasing, wondering whether it is still worth the coal in the long run, and we are not looking more closely at recital 35 of the Infosoc Directive to resolve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u46	Minister, the regime of civil liability of nuclear operators was amended with the coming into force of the Act of 29 June 2014 amending the Act of 22 July 1985 on the civil liability of nuclear operators. This law gave 90 days to the nuclear operators to put themselves in order of insurance, thus until 31 March. And those who thought they couldn't find an insurer to cover the new risks had 30 days to let the government know. This law provides that the King may, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, determine the forms of such request, the terms and conditions for granting such guarantee. The Minister of the Economy will first verify the admissibility of the application, in the light of his knowledge of the nuclear insurance market. It will then transmit it to the Minister of Finance and the amount of the compensation will be fixed by the King by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers. There are therefore two royal decrees on the advice of a number of bodies. I would like to point out that the explanatory memorandum to this law is clear, since the procedure for the recognition of exploitation must be carried out within a very short period of time. Minister, this year you have chosen to use section 32(2) of the Act of 29 June 2014 to extend the transitional period and to maintain the recognition of nuclear operators. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know if you have sought the advice of the Council of State regarding the Ministerial Orders of March 25, 2016. There is no justification to explain the extension of the deadline until December 31, 2016, which appears to be particularly long and is contrary to the spirit of the law, since it is referred to as a short time limit. Has the Minister of Finance ever proposed a royal decree to the Council of Ministers on the subject. How much will the State guarantee for nuclear operators be? Can you give us details of the figures required by the operators in terms of guarantees? These figures do not appear in the ministerial decree. Therefore, how high will the compensation to be paid by operators to the State be set in return for this guarantee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u47	Mr de Lamotte, before answering your questions, in addition to the answer given by my colleague the Minister of Energy last week, I would like to point out that the amending protocols, the Paris Convention and the supplementary Brussels Convention of 12 February 2004, which form the basis of the law of 29 June 2014 amending the law of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy, have not yet entered into force. The deposit of the instruments of ratification of these two protocols for all the parties must, in fact, be simultaneously deposited in the head of the parties which are also Member States of the European Union; this obligation derives from Council Decision 2004/294EC of 8 March 2004. To date, neither the United Kingdom nor Italy are prepared to deposit their instrument of ratification. This was the reason why the government intended to postpone the entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014, in accordance with the opinions of the Council of State on the preliminary draft laws of the previous legislature. Nevertheless, the Act of 29 June 2014 came into effect on 1 January 2016. After verifying the state of the insurance market, all the operators concerned submitted reasoned applications in order to benefit from a State guarantee covering items for which the market did not offer partial coverage, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of that Law. I have declared all these applications admissible for the orders of 25 March 2016 published in the Belgian Monitor on 5 April 2016. As a result, these requests are still under investigation. I come to your third question. The services of the FPS Finance Debt Agency have yet to develop a draft Royal Order on State Guarantee. Not only does the law itself provide for a number of formalities to be carried out, but the pricing to be determined must obviously not be able to be described as prohibited State aid. This matter is currently being dealt with by my colleague the Minister of Finance. In the meantime, and in accordance with article 32, paragraph 2, of the above-mentioned Act, I have therefore extended for the period necessary for the investigation the 90-day period referred to in its paragraph 1 until 31 December 2016. I would like to point out that on the day the above amending protocols are ratified, a new market will be offered to insurers. It is likely that the purpose and scope of non-insurable risks will tend to be reduced, as indicated by the progress made in the meantime by operators in seeking alternative coverage and avoiding or at least reducing the extent of the use of the State guarantee mechanism. For this reason, the Government decided to take steps with both parties to speed up the ratification process of the protocols of February 12, 2004.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u48	Minister, I understand that the deadline you have set is longer than what was provided for in the law. At first, you had no days, but you went until December 31st of this year. The situation will therefore become more complicated, especially since we do not know the amounts of insurance covering the environmental space of these holdings. In addition, the entry into force of the Order was not blocked. It would have been simpler. We don't know what context we're going to play in. Operators, as well as the State, will therefore depend on rules that have not been previously laid down. As far as the figures are concerned, I will ask you a written question, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u49	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, recently, the Consumer Rights Protection Association Test-Achats announced that it had screened the garbage bags of thirty Belgian municipalities. The association tested several elements, namely leak resistance, fall resistance, bond strength, labelling quality, or the correspondence between the announced volume and the actual volume of the bags. In this regard, various problems and anomalies have been revealed. To mention just a few examples, almost half of the bags tested did not pass the fall resistance test. It would appear that manufacturers have sometimes narrowed down on quality in order not to increase production costs. Labels have also been problematic, as they tend to damage the first bag, and often do not mention the information needed for consumer use. Finally, in some municipalities, the difference between the volume indicated and the actual volume of the bag would reach up to 19 litres! You will agree, these revelations are quite surprising. It seems abnormal that consumers' rights are not respected, especially in the context of a public service to citizens such as the collection of waste. I would also like to ask you the following questions. Have you had the opportunity to read the information published by Test-Achats on the problem exposed? Do you share the conclusions of the association and confirm the difficulties raised to the detriment of the citizens? In the light of your ministerial powers, what measures have you adopted to better defend consumers, in the context of possible consultations with other levels of government? Has any thought been given to this problem by your services and, if so, what working methodology have you drawn up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u50	Dear colleague, I have indeed read the studies carried out by Test-Achats. The following actions will be undertaken. In the short term, the SPF Economy will question intercommunals and/or communes whether corrective measures have been taken, particularly with regard to metrological aspects. Following the study of Test-Achats, a control campaign will be organised next year. If this proves useful, contacts will be made with the high regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u51	Minister, I believe that political power is indeed a responsibility. Public services are at issue here. Communes and intercommunals have a duty of exemplaryness which they must respect. I hope that the checks and measures taken will bear fruit and that this will bring everything back to order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u52	Mr President, Minister SABAM, a copyright company in Belgium, collects a tax from companies broadcasting music to pay the rightholders. In areas where this is possible, it has in recent years given priority to solutions negotiated on the basis of objective criteria. Several agreements have been signed with the early childhood sector, youth centres, music festivals, the social profit sector, the horeca sector, the entrepreneurial world, etc., as specified on the SABAM website. With schools and day-care workers in the home in particular, it is foreseen that the tax will not be collected. However, it appears that not all other early childhood care settings, such as crèches and children's homes, are treated in the same way. Some nurseries receive an invoice from SABAM while others do not. Minister, what are the practices of collecting copyright in these host communities? How do you explain that some nurseries receive an invoice from SABAM while others do not receive it? Does the copyright society in Belgium properly enforce the law in this area? Do crèches and children's homes actually have to pay this tax? If so, do you intend to take steps to remove this obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mr. de Lamotte, SABAM does not collect copyrights from caretakers of self-employed children at home, provided that the caretakers of the children are not more than two full-time equivalents. On the other hand, in the case of crèches and the broadcast of music, SABAM actually receives copyright on the basis of its tariff 108, "commercial establishments". If some crèches do not receive a SABAM bill, it is because they did not declare the use of music. SABAM told us that it makes no distinction among the statements it receives from the host community. If the crèche uses musical works without having made the prior declaration, it is liable to an increase of 15% in the fees due. SABAM collects copyright in crèches on the basis of article 11.265 of the Code of Economic Law. I do not intend to propose an amendment to this article in so far as it is in conformity with Community law. Otherwise, I can intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u54	Minister, I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u55	Mr President, Minister, another question about SABAM, a society that we know well now. Book XI, Intellectual Property of the Code of Economic Law, provides for exceptions to the collection of copyright, particularly where the services take place in the context of school activities, both within and outside the educational institution. The concept of teaching and education in Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, transposed into this Code, is, in our view, also found in other places frequented by young people outside school hours, such as youth movements. In these places, non-formal education is created just as essential as compulsory education for the development of young people. So my questions are as follows. What are the practices for collecting copyrights applied to youth organisations? Does the copyright society in Belgium properly enforce the law in this area? Do youth organisations actually have to pay this tax? If so, do you intend to take steps to remove this obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u56	Mr President, Mr Lamotte's colleague, in answer to your first question, I can tell you that SABAM's 127 tariff has been negotiated with the ASBL Formaat, the umbrella organisation for young people's homes in Flanders. Young people's homes therefore benefit from a rate which is their own and which is more favourable than the rate applicable to the horeca sector. SABAM has indicated to my services that this tariff is to be applied in a non-discriminatory manner throughout Belgium. There are two possibilities: either the youth house organizes events, or it does not organize events. The basic annual rate varies according to the activities of the youth house. The authorisation and declaration procedure has been simplified. In addition, events organized by youth movements must be reported to SABAM. A rate is applied to them depending on the nature of the event (fest, concert, etc.).). In response to your second question, it should be noted that if these organisations communicate a protected work to the public, they must, in principle, pay copyright and related rights. This is not the case if the youth organisation is granted an exemption. As far as education is concerned, there is currently an exception for free excursions carried out in the course of school activities and for communication to the public for the purpose of illustration of teaching. In the latter case, these must be communications on closed transmission networks of the educational institution. Since the exception to copyright is of strict interpretation, it does not seem obvious to me to interpret the law in such a way that, in general, youth organizations can benefit from the exceptions to copyright in education. This would be tantamount to generally considering the activities of youth organizations as school activities. It is ultimately up to the courts and tribunals to interpret the scope of the legal concepts contained in the legal provisions on copyright.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u57	I take note of your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u58	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago I asked you about the commercial guarantee and the control operations carried out by the Economic Inspectorate. The report was without appeal. Indeed, many websites did not comply with economic regulations regarding the commercial guarantee. For infringements found during a first inspection, the Economic Inspectorate shall first draw up a warning report. In the absence of an order within the prescribed period, a pro justitia shall be established and normally followed by a proposal for a transaction. If the offence is paid by the offender, the public action shall cease. In the absence of payment, the file shall be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office for appropriate follow-up. It should be borne in mind that criminal sanctions can amount to up to EUR 25 000. Minister, what about the tracking of offences? Are transaction proposals accepted? Do you account for a lot of files in default of payment? Since the Economic Inspectorate's controls, do you see a decrease in trade guarantee infringements or not? The aim is not to impose sanctions but to achieve a result that guarantees consumer protection and that the commercial guarantee can be applied even when purchases are made via websites, knowing that e-commerce is growing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, the 806 investigations into legal guarantees carried out in 2014 finally resulted in 92 findings in the form of minutes. This is equivalent to an infringement rate of 11.4%. A total of 87 transactions were proposed and 5 cases were sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of these 87 transaction files, 70 were paid, 15 were not paid and were sent to the prosecutor's office, while 2 are in the process of administrative processing. In 2015, 418 investigations resulted in 17 findings in the form of minutes, equivalent to an infringement rate of 4.1%. Thirteen transaction proposals were made and four cases were sent to the prosecution. The drop in the percentages related to infringements seems to show that the actions of the Economic Inspectorate have very positive effects. There has been a marked improvement in the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u60	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. In taking stock of the situation, it is indeed realized that the actions carried out have a positive impact on the ground. There has to be a decrease in the number of infringements and thus in the number of penalties given. Things are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u61	Minister, I asked Minister Reynders this same question on 19 April, who told me that in the field of trade defence there were working groups in which Belgium is represented through the SPF Economy. He therefore suggested that I ask you about this important element relating to the fight against commercial dumping. It is an important project at Belgian and European level because the protection of our jobs, the survival of our industries and our expertise are at stake in many industrial and economic sectors. The Union's trade defence system is based on WTO rules that allow its members to react against unfair trade practices (Article VI of GATT 1994, anti-dumping and anti-subsidy agreements). In addition to these WTO criteria, the Union relies on two principles: firstly, the "lesser duty rule" which allows for duties to be imposed below the dumping or subsidy margin; secondly, the criterion of "the interest of the Union" which ensures that the interests of all economic agents of the Union (production, importers, users of the imported product, consumers) are taken into account prior to the adoption of measures. In April 2014, the European Parliament strongly supported the strengthening of trade defence instruments, in particular by calling for the removal of the lesser duty rule for cases of social and environmental dumping and when complaints are lodged by SMEs. It is essential for the EU, and therefore for our country, to quickly find a way to comply with commitments to the WTO, while ensuring that European workers are genuinely protected from unfair trade practices. Minister, what is Belgium's current position on the modernization of trade defence instruments? Are you ready to support reform when the issue is addressed in the Council? Do you intend to take initiatives to urge the European Commission and the Council to unblock the modernisation and strengthening of European trade defence instruments, involving the European social partners in this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u62	In April 2013, the European Commission proposed to the Council and the European Parliament a legislative package to improve the effectiveness of trade defence instruments. This modernisation package was developed in a context where it had become necessary to adopt European rules to combat unfair competition from dumped subsidised imports. This issue has come back to the Council's decision-making table, and in particular to the Trade Working Group, which is the forum for this kind of debate par excellence. This working group brings together the 24 Member States of the European Union and it is at this level that my administration acts. Belgium agrees to reopen the debate on the modernisation of trade defence instruments, and calls for the European Commission to put on the table an updated proposal with a balanced package, including more transparency, simplification and shorter procedures. Belgium advocates, for example, for a shipping clause, or at least longer notice periods. At present, when the European Commission takes a decision, the rights deriving from it are directly applicable. A shipping clause would allow already signed contracts to be taken into account. Another example is the rule of the lessty rule or the "lesser right" rule. Belgium may be prepared to show flexibility during the discussions and to limit the application of the general rule in this well-defined case where there are structural distortions of raw materials or massive overcapacity. So yes, Belgium is ready to support this reform, because it is high time to modernise the European Union's anti-dumping policy and excessive subsidies, all without undermining the quality of investigations. Belgium calls on the European Commission to make a proposal that can unblock the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u63	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I hear that Belgium visibly has a position different from that it still held in 2014. I have before me documents, in particular on the "lesser duty" rule, about which Belgium marked the will of a status quo. I think it would be interesting to receive regular information on the progress of the discussions. I'll probably come back to you in this context. In any case, I hope that Belgium will really be attentive to the modernisation of these instruments, because the question that arises today with regard to the granting of market economy status to China puts us at the foot of the wall a little bit. We need to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u64	Mr Minister, today there are many questions about insurance. This question is about car insurance. If an insurance company decides to cancel its auto-insurance contract after a premium increase by the insurance company, in some cases it still pays its new premium for fear of temporarily falling out of cover. Not everyone is aware that their green card is usually valid for a month longer than the due date, precisely to avoid that problem. The problem here is that the maturity notice usually explicitly states that payment of the premium means accepting the new rate. As a result, the insured person is once again bound by the contract for a year, even though he has signed a notice of cancellation. The cancellation will only apply from the next annual due date. That kind of situation, I know from practice, sometimes causes discussions between brokers and insured persons, which makes no one happy. That is why I would have liked to know what your position is on the way in which car insurance is withdrawn. Is there any possibility of remedying the situation without making things even more complex, because that should not be the intention of course?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u65	I am aware, Mr Klaps, of the problems you are raising. The rules on withdrawal of insurance and, in particular, withdrawal of car insurance are part of the current debate in the context of the codification of insurance law. Of course, as Minister of Consumer Affairs, I will pay particular attention to consumer protection. So we're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u66	Minister, I feel a follow-up question coming up. I'm glad I could bring the matter to your attention. Now people pay the premium via direct debit. If they read the message halfway, they only see the difference when checking their account position, which can be problematic in a number of cases. I look forward to the results in the many files you are working on specifically for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u67	Don't exaggerate, Mr Klaps, we have enough work and it's hot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u68	That's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u69	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the guarantee of serious illness. This is also the result of the recent annual report of the Ombudsman of Insurance. This shows that there are several complaints about the refusal of intervention by the insurer, questioning the extent of the guarantee for serious illness. The list of serious diseases differs from one society to another because it is not legally established. The guarantee for serious illness is also the case that more and more insurers refuse to repay medication that is not part of direct treatment. A concrete example is that of medication that is necessary for the treatment to succeed, such as medication to prevent rejection symptoms after transplantation, reimbursement is refused. People who have such serious diseases are, of course, literally and figuratively weaker fellow citizens. It is therefore not logical that these people should be extra punished, as it were. What is your position? Is it really necessary, in your view, for us to define this list, for us to draw up a list of serious diseases under the insurance guarantee for serious illness? At the time when people take out such a guarantee, they do not go off a whole list to check whether or not they could have certain diseases. Do you agree with me that medication, such as anti-rejection medication, which in other words is necessary for the success of a treatment, should still be covered by this guarantee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u70	Mr President, Mr Klaps, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that it is in the interests of the insurer and the insured that there is clarity about the concept of "heavy disease'. Today, this concept should be adequately regulated in the general terms and conditions of the policy. Insurers often base themselves on the point of view of their re-insurer, who refers to certain scientific studies. You are suggesting a solution where there should be a legal list of what could be considered a serious disease. Such an approach does not seem easy to me at first sight, because the notion of "heavy disease' is an evolutionary concept that is linked to medical progress. In this respect, a legal list should not result in a person who is seriously ill falling out of the boat because his serious illness has not yet been legally recognised. Moreover, this is not a statutory insurance policy. The insurer must therefore, in principle, be able to define the risk for which it offers cover. However, in view of the importance of the matter, I will take up the issue with Assuralia. I also understand your position with regard to the harmful exclusions of certain medications. Insurance companies often exclude medication, when no reimbursement has been made by the RIZIV, which, of course, belongs to my colleague. However, we are here in the area of contractual freedom. Moreover, the premium will always depend on the coverage offered. The wider the coverage, the higher the premium will be. Just to be clear, I'll take your point of view in consultation with Assuralia and see how Assuralia reacts to it. Unfortunately, I'm afraid I've provoked another question. That is, however, because you are right to raise the issue. I therefore need to discuss it further. After the discussion I can give more explanation and text. However, I must first have the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u71	Mr President, Minister, it is not that I think that your staff are too few to ask so many questions, but they are all about important matters. I understand your answer when you say that this is evolving and that it is very difficult to work with a streamlined framework. Perhaps you could arrange with Assuralia a minimum list of matters that are certainly covered. Let me give you the example of Lyme disease. This is not in the policy of most companies today, but has very serious consequences and requires very expensive medication that has to be taken for a long time. It would be a good thing for the sector to look into this and make arrangements. If that is possible without a regulatory framework, I am in favour of it. I am very pleased that you understand the need for this consultation and the further work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u72	Mr Minister, fire insurance or home insurance, as it is sometimes referred to today, absorbs the consequences of the damage to the home and its contents. It is compulsory for financial institutions to enter into mortgage credit. Outside that context, it is still not required to take such insurance. Since most people have to take out a loan to buy a house, that insurance is widespread. When such insurance is to be used effectively in the event of serious damage, disputes often arise. In this case it is much more difficult than with car insurance, where it is actually very easy. In that case, the expert must come to a deal with the garagist and the car is repaired. Whether that costs EUR 3 000 or EUR 4 000 makes little difference to the policyholder. In the case of fire insurance, it's often different. In the case of partial or complete reconstruction, there is also the problem that many new construction and environmental obligations must now be complied with. It's about insulation, CO detectors, fire resistant walls and so on. There is a whole series of measures, which are also evolutionary, of course, also in the context of environmental protection. Some insurance companies reject the additional costs of the new regulation. Their reasoning is that this was not there before and therefore it was not insured either. According to them, it adds value to the property and the insurance is not intended for that purpose. They therefore reject these additional costs. I would therefore like to know what your position is on this matter, Mr Minister, as the policyholder can only comply with the new obligations. Do you think it should be compulsory to include the additional costs covered by new construction and environmental obligations, possibly as an option, in the policy for payment or not? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u73	If you are dealing with statutory insurance, then the law provides for the minimum levels to be met by insurance. As fire insurance is not compulsory, it is difficult to have the supplementary insurance included. We regularly consult with the insurance sector to discuss problems. I will put the problem on the agenda at our next week's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u74	I propose that this be provided as a paying option. More insurance also has a cost. Not every policy-holder likes that. I do not understand why the product managers of all these companies have not yet done so. An option seems to me to be an absolute added value. If they don't see it that way, they have to say why. I have no problem examining that position further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u75	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor so soon after my arrival. Minister, I have a question for you concerning a difficult but very important sector, namely the steel industry. On 30 March we received the message that the Indian group Tata Steel will abandon all activities in Britain. According to the report, the reason for this is twofold. On the one hand, restructuring of that branch could be too expensive, on the other hand, the market would be flooded by too much cheap Chinese steel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u76	As early as 2013, the European Commission proposed a package of policies to support our steel sector, including the lifting of the Lesser Duty Rule. However, there is still no consensus within Europe on this package of measures, by contrast to different Member States, including Britain. The European Commission recalled those measures on 16 March 2016. Minister, we have known for a long time that the steel industry faces very great challenges. These reports are therefore alarming for the steel sector and the many jobs associated with them. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions to ask you. How do you proactively work to avoid similar negative scenarios for our country? What steps are you taking to re-establish a healthy steel sector in Belgium and in Europe? What action will the European Commission take exactly? Is there agreement within the European Member States on this? What is the Belgian position on the modernisation of trade defence instruments, as proposed by the European Commission, and in particular to adapt, restrict or abolish the Lesser Duty Rule? In the meantime, you have also paid a visit to The Hague to discuss streamlining the positions of the Benelux countries. What interesting slopes do you see in a better Benelux cooperation on that front? On 18 April, together with the OECD, our country organised a high-level colloquium on overproduction in the steel sector. Did that colloquium meet your expectations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u77	Mr Claerhout, it is a very important dossier, with many questions, to which I will try to answer. Firstly, Belgium, together with the main steel producing EU Member States, took the initiative for an extraordinary meeting of the Competition Council on 9 November 2015 to discuss further the competition problems of the steel sector. At the end of the High Level Group on Energy-intensive Industry, Belgium, together with the various other European steel producing countries, asked the European Commission to act more actively to protect the EU's trade interests and, in particular, the steel sector. Moreover, on 5 February 2016, together with seven other countries, I sent a letter to the Commission asking it to do something about this. In response, the Commission indeed initiated new anti-dumping proceedings shortly afterwards and proposed improvements to the anti-dumping rules, in particular in order to speed up the procedures. In addition, on 16 March last, the Commission proposed its new action plan for the steel sector in order to secure employment and sustainable growth for that sector. At my meeting with the French Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Emmanuel Macron, I also confirmed our support for the rapid modernisation of trade defence instruments. Belgium will maintain that position in the next relevant Council configuration. Finally, on 18 April, our country organised a High-Level Meeting on Access Capacity and Structural Adjustment in the Steel Sector, at the request of and together with the OECD, where more than 93 percent of world production was represented. We are therefore very active within our powers. The interests of the different EU Member States vary slightly according to the weight of the steel industry in their economies. The causes of the crisis need to be addressed, in particular global overcapacity, estimated at around 700 million tonnes by the end of 2015. In addition to support for OECD activities, the EU aims to maximise its trade diplomacy in the framework of the various existing agreements and ongoing discussions to achieve better discipline and transparency, in particular in the field of state aid. In addition, efforts should be continued and even stepped up to achieve more effective production, both in terms of the use of natural resources and in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and other types of pollution. It is important that this does not happen through an exodus from production to other less efficient countries. Energy prices must therefore become more competitive and the system of exchange of greenhouse gas emission quotas needs to be further improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u78	The steel sector is among the best performing sectors in recycling. Nevertheless, progress is still possible. The steel sector and several anti-dumping cases show that it is time to adapt the instruments so that procedures can be simplified, more transparent and accelerated. Belgium is asking to reopen the discussions on the modernisation of the European trade defence policy, which has not been adapted to economic realities since 1995. This has also been addressed in one of the previous questions of today. The partial abandonment of the Lesser Duty Rule (LDR) should be considered with caution, but in view of the new global context in which the steel industry operates, Belgium is prepared to co-operate on the LDR in the context of a more global and balanced compromise. Our country could consider a proposal from the European Commission, which sets out in an objective and transparent way the cases in which derogations from the LDR could be made. I come to my penultimate point. I visited my colleague Henk Kamp last month. The Benelux cooperation was then discussed. However, the focus was on the implementation of the Benelux annual plan, but I had invited my colleague to take part in the symposium on 18 April last. However, in the context of Benelux cooperation, the business community of the three Benelux countries would work on a joint Benelux platform that would approach the public authorities and the Commission. I come to the final point. The problem of overcapacity in the global steel sector has been discussed for almost four years in the OECD Steel Committee, where the main steel producing and exporting countries meet regularly. The Commission is also working on a solution in its bilateral talks. In doing so, commitments could be made to establish strict discipline and transparency, in particular in the field of State aid. Underlining and raising this point was one of the objectives of the Steel Symposium in the Egmont Palace. We will take further initiatives. After all, the Steel Committee will meet again in Paris in September. So we are opening up a lot of registers to ensure the necessary sustainable future for our steel industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u79	Mr Minister, I clearly note the concern expressed by your reply and by the initiatives that you are announcing and which will be taken. The OECD warned yesterday that the steel crisis would become even more serious, which would add to the urgency of the initiatives that our country can take. I wish you every success. Belgium is thinking further. I hope you can draw the leadership from our country into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u80	Mr President, Minister, taking into account the social balance of Reprobel, I note that the labour costs for the 7.4 full-time equivalent (FTE) of male workers totalled EUR 883 046, or an average of EUR 120 000 per FTE. You have worked for a representative of companies, of self-employed people. So you know what wage costs in our country mean. So you also know that an average cost of more than EUR 100 000 is generally considered high. There are still 20 % above this. It is remarkable, moreover, that women earn a lot less at Reprobel, with an average wage cost of EUR 80 757, although there is a considerable difference in the level of education and so on, while there is not such a big difference in the social balance. It is not my ambition to regulate the remuneration of private companies from the political point of view. However, certain collective management companies have a legal monopoly and work with money belonging to others. They have been instructed by the government to collect that money from consumers. Then, of course, it is a different situation. That's why I have a few questions for you. First, is there any explanation for the average high wage costs for men at Reprobel? Is this about exceptional elements, like a discharge? I didn't see any mention of a dismissal allowance or of employees who left the company, but maybe there's another reason? Or is the average cost actually that high? Secondly, there is, of course, some regulation for those management companies. For example, a number of standards are included in the copyright law and in the Royal Decree on management companies, such as maximum operating costs of 15%, I believe. I have already asked you about this. What standards of remuneration apply in this respect or would you consider appropriate in the future to ensure a good way of working?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u81	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I trust you will refer to the annual accounts for the financial year 2014. The audit service does not have sufficient data to explain the average wage costs. Certain elements may apply, such as a cancellation fee included in the social balance, the fact that several older people are employed or that more people drive a company car. These elements can have an impact on staff costs, but I just want to say that we need to be careful about this. A management company has the option of setting its costs autonomously. No standards have been drawn up for this purpose. As you refer to Article XI.252, § 3 of the Economic Law Code, the management company may not have more than 15% operating costs from the financial year 2015. If the ceiling is exceeded, it shall justify it in its annual report. Reprobel has an average operating cost of 12,92 % over the period 2010-2013, as shown by the 2014 annual report of the audit service of the management companies. In view of the structure of the management company, members may also always express their approval or disapproval of the annual accounts, which must always be submitted to the general meeting. Having said that, your message is: the more efficient and economical things can be organised, the better. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and certainly for your final conclusion. It is true that it is money from others that is collected from people. I believe that this should be dealt with in a correct, prudent and economical way. We must also be careful to draw conclusions without knowing the details. That is why I asked you if more information is available, without drawing any conclusions. You're saying the control department doesn't have that information. Let us consider this as a call to see to what extent the inspection service could obtain more information. To what extent should we extend this legal mandate in order to ensure efficient and resource-efficient use?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u83	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, more and more of our citizens are focusing on the websites of travel agencies, car rentals or airlines to organise and book their business or leisure trips. This phenomenon has increased particularly in recent years in view of the many advantages that these services can offer, in particular in terms of permanent accessibility to travel offers, tariff promotions or the possibility of printing transport tickets directly at home. However, this new practical way of consuming citizens is not exempt from situations that raise questions. In this regard, I would like to address the problem of overloads that are applied to buyers when they want to use a credit card to finalize a transaction. Very concretely, on many sites of operators active in our country, including airlines, an amount is added to the invoice of travellers, since they use one model of credit card and not another, issued most of the time by a competing banking agency. Although clearly and distinctly displayed on online portals, these additional rates are called for because they are based on customer differentiation based on the card model in their possession. This problem is all the more thorny because on the Internet, there is often no alternative other than the use of electronic payment. In addition, most operators openly justify these fee supplements due to the increased costs of processing credit card payments. This does not concern all of these maps, but only a part of them. To take a comparison element, many airlines apply a fuel surcharge in the calculation of their ticket sales. However, this surcharge applies to all passengers without distinction of any kind. I have no doubt that these commercial practices are, of course, within the strict framework of legality, but I would like to ask you a number of questions. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, have you been approached by consumer protection bodies on this issue of differentiated incremental costs? If so, what requests were made to you and what responses were provided to them? What is currently the legal framework that limits the application of overloads on online portals in our country? Is there any reflection within the government to adapt the various regulations to move towards greater coherence and fairness for the consumer, while respecting any European obligations in this field?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u84	Mr President, I have not yet been approached by consumer protection bodies. The current legal framework was first decided at European level and then transposed into our national law. For the time being, the merchant may, in accordance with Book VII of the Code of Economic Law, charge costs insofar as he clearly informs the customer and insofar as these costs are reasonable and in relation to the actual costs incurred by the merchant in the use of the specific payment instrument. The costs for the merchant may vary depending on the brand and the type of card. But the impact of costs on the consumer cannot be dictated by these commercial reasons. These same costs may, however, vary depending on the actual costs paid by the merchant for accepting the use of a specified payment card. This principle is based on the Consumer Rights Directive and transposed into Article 6.42 of the Code of Economic Law. The Directive on payment services provides that as from 13 January 2018, it will be prohibited to charge additional charges to consumers for cards for which a maximum interbank allowance is in effect, as is the case for the majority of debit cards and credit cards (Bancontact, Visa, Mastercard, Maestro, etc.). For the other cards, this will in principle still be possible as long as the allowance is related to the actual costs. However, the Payment Services Directive provides for the possibility for Member States to decide that, in this case, traders will be prohibited from charging consumers fees. When transposing this directive, I will in any case give it the necessary attention and will also consult with the stakeholders concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u85	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I take note of the various elements you have given us, and I will of course remain attentive to what seems to be a positive development in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u86	Deputy Prime Minister, last January, you announced your wish to strengthen the control of tanning centres by the FPS Economy services. And because, according to the figures for 2015, an overwhelming majority of the controlled signs were in violation. I quote: "Infringements that directly affect the health of users are inadmissible and will be identified and punished. I have made a clear signal to the sector that we are maintaining zero tolerance for infringements that involve a direct risk to health." However, according to Test-Achats, despite the creation of a quality label, the sectoral representation of tanning centres and its calls for more responsibility in the head of solarium managers, a large number of brands would still not comply with the legislation in force. With respect to the government's commitments, do you already have an interim review of the announced controls? If so, can you communicate it to us? In concrete terms, how many solariums have been controlled by your services so far, and what is the general state of the situation? Are you satisfied with the results observed? Beyond the repressive dimension, what measures have you taken to improve, in consultation with consumer organisations, but also with the services of your colleague in charge of public health, the awareness of the managers of tanning centres and the information of the general public, in particular with regard to the fight against skin cancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u87	The Economic Inspectorate is, of course, strengthening its monitoring of tanning centres within the framework of available resources. Thus, an action plan has been put in place. It provides, inter alia, for screening via a detailed questionnaire sent to the undertakings concerned. In order to be able to process the replies, the questionnaire is sent in different tranches. The first shipment, intended for 200 tanning centres, took place in the course of March. The analysis of the responses is under way and will allow for a better definition of the priority actions to be carried out. A second shipment will be organized as soon as possible. Until the end of April, the Economic Inspectorate closed twenty-one checks which led to nineteen minutes. In 13 cases, one or more solar benches were seized. I also decided to prohibit the operation of a centre by ministerial decree of 24 March 2016. In view of these figures, I can draw only two conclusions. First, the situation has not improved yet. Secondly, stricter controls and sanctions remain absolutely necessary. In order to raise awareness among companies operating solar banks, I have regular contacts with the professional federation FeBelSol, created last year. This one organizes mystery-shoppings itself. The centres visited receive a report on this subject, which is also sent to the services of the Economic Inspectorate. I will soon submit for consultation a draft royal decree requiring tanning centres to register under a specific NACE-BEL code in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. My administration is finalizing the draft text. To date, I have not made contact with my colleague from Public Health, as I am awaiting the advice of the Senior Health Council, which is addressing this issue. I hope that this opinion will be available soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u88	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which is still worrying. The figures you refer to for this first wave of checks are more than 90% of the minutes drawn up. There's still work to be done. I see you determined to restore some order and protect citizens from the many cancer risks. We will follow developments and the adoption of this royal decree which, I think, will respond to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u89	Having not read the question of my colleague from Lamotte, I may be going to do rehearsals. I'll try to be as concise as possible. Deputy Prime Minister, in a series of articles, it was announced that between 2010 and 2015, the Economic Inspectorate drew up more than 1,000 warning minutes following infringements of the regulations on labelling, name, origin, method of production, composition and advertising for foodstuffs. While in 2014 the number of offences found was 155, in 2015 this number reached 241 cases, an increase of 60% over a year. Consumer protection is fundamental, and of course it requires labelling that complies with all the rules in force. However, such an increase in the number of minutes on an annual basis raises questions. Do you confirm the figures and therefore what analysis do you make of this increase? Is it the result of a more intense and effective control carried out by your services or can it be concluded that the situation has unfortunately deteriorated on the ground? In the latter case, do you have any information on the causes of this trend? What measures have you adopted to further strengthen consumer protection for food labelling? Finally, in the case of fruit and vegetables, 163 infringements were found during the 200 checks carried out by your services. Given these particularly high figures, has any thought been given to this specific sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm the figures. The increase in the number of offences can be explained mainly by three reasons. Firstly, the European Commission's annual initiatives, which encourage Member States to combat fraud in the European Union. These initiatives have been taken since the horse meat scandal. Secondly, the entry into force of the Food Information for Consumers Regulation in December 2014, which imposes new obligations on the food sector. Thirdly, the introduction, since last year, of systematic controls on labelling requirements within the framework of European trade standards for the fruit and vegetable market. In view of these reasons, we cannot conclude that the situation is deteriorating. The Economic Inspectorate will continue to carry out systematic controls in the food sector. As far as fruit and vegetables are concerned, we see that the rules are complex, especially the European rules, which provide for labelling rules for trades between professionals as well as for consumers. Obligations are not necessarily the same and can cause problems. In order to improve the situation and assist the sector, the Economic Inspectorate is currently preparing guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u91	Thank you for your answer, which does not call for comment at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u92	Mr President, Mr Minister, the draft European directive on the protection of business secrets, approved by the European Parliament, should soon be examined by the Council of the European Union, where representatives of the governments of the Member States sit, for final adoption. Its scope includes people who are not spies and who seek only to exercise their profession (journalists, researchers, executives who want to change jobs) or to follow what their conscience dictates. We're talking about whistleblowers. This start-up of transnational legislation aimed at suppressing economic espionage will, in my view, go too far and will give companies legal means to try to prosecute anyone who obtains, uses or publishes a business secret without their consent. The text of the European Parliament makes it possible to make the work of the press, whistleblowers and the mobility of workers more secure, but it is still insufficient and needs to be improved. The too broad definition of business secrecy and the definition of illegality and obtaining limited to the mere non-authorisation of the owner of the business secret concerned allows the opening of the proceedings, then the prosecution of the accused to convince the judge that they are not spies but that they are covered by the exceptions provided for, which is not acceptable to us. Minister, what is your position on this directive? In your opinion, is there a need for a change in the text? If so, in what sense? What will be Belgium's position in the Council of the European Union on this "business secret" directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u93	Mr de Lamotte, business secrecy contains the know-how of a company, manufacturing secrets and other information of commercial value because of its secret character. It is not always possible or desirable to protect business secrets through an intellectual property right. However, they have an important economic value and their protection is desirable in order to support innovation, research and development and the competitive position of companies. At present, according to the Member States of the European Union, regimes for the protection of business secrets are very difficult, leading to a fragmentation of the internal market. This affects companies' cross-border activities and promotes unfair competition. The Directive addresses these difficulties by creating a harmonised framework at European level, both as regards the judicial procedures available for obtaining civil redress, and as regards the safeguarding of the confidentiality of business secrets during and after these procedures. This harmonisation of protection will encourage companies to better defend their interests in the event of unlawful use and disclosure of their know-how and business secrets. This will encourage innovative activities, technology transfer and ultimately have a positive impact on employment and economic growth. The text of the Directive was adopted at first reading by the European Parliament on 14 April 2016 with a series of amendments which will be submitted shortly for adoption by the Council. These amendments further reinforce the balanced consideration of the various interests involved. For example, recital 20 of the Directive explicitly states that the Directive should not restrict the activities of whistleblowers. Article 1(2) of the Directive also states that it does not affect freedom of expression and information. Finally, Article 5b of the Directive provides that proceedings under the Directive shall be rejected where the charge of use or disclosure of business secrecy occurs in the context of the disclosure of professional misconduct or other misconduct or of an illegal activity carried out for the purpose of protecting the public interest. Thirdly, Belgium will vote in favour of this directive. In fact, adequate and proportionate protection of business secrets is essential in the context of an innovative economy in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses. The current text also seeks to incorporate sufficient safeguards to ensure the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of establishment, freedom of movement, mobility of workers, freedom of expression and information, and the collective defence of workers' interests. In addition, we will discuss with the Commission and the other Member States the desirability of harmonising the protection of whistleblowers at European level. I would like to inform you that, on my initiative, the Belgian delegation has supported the Presidency of the European Union in the discussions in the Council in its efforts to adequately consider the whistleblower dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u94	Minister, I will read your answer again because it is long and complex. I would like to draw your attention to the second reading of the directive, at a time when amendments will be able to qualify a number of elements. As you have noted, I have just developed an inquiry and I am tabling a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-11-54-commissie-ic417x.u95	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, asks the federal government 1. not to support, as it stands, the European Directive on business secrets; 2. to defend at the next Council of the European Union an adaptation of Articles 2 and 4 of the Directive to define as illegal only the acquisition, use or publication of a business secret by a person acting with an economic interest. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Labour, Economy and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, calls on the federal government 1. not to support the European Directive on trade secrets in its present form; 2. defend at the next Council of the European Union the adaptation of Articles 2 and 4 of the Directive so that only the acquisition, use and publication of a trade secret by a person of economic interest would be described as illegal. A simple motion was tabled by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Sarah Claerhout and Len Dierick and MM. Gautier Calomne, Peter Dedecker and Johan Klaps. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Leen Dierick and by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Johan Klaps. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
