ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u1	Mr President, Minister, since 30 June 2015, the Executive Board of the Sint-Gilles Prison has abolished all collective activities due to a permanent shortage of staff. In concrete terms, this means that prisoners are only allowed out of their cells to eat, wash or get visitors, with all the frustration. On 25 September 2015, the four competent community ministers, responsible for the Justice Welfare Service, sent a letter to your cabinet to the alarm bell. They urged you to be able to start work again before the end of September. A few weeks ago, I asked you about this problem. In your reply, the following statement was made: 'I have, of course, replied to the writing of the Community ministers in the same terms as I am now replying to you'. However, according to my sources, no Minister responsible for the Department of Justice Welfare has received a reply so far. However, the shortage of staff in Saint Gillis remains a serious problem. Staff had fallen from 365 to 326 agents at the beginning of December and that is a shortage of 39 full-time agents, while 2 to 4 full-time agents discharge every month. Finally, you proposed some measures, namely the recruitment of 20 full-time agents nationally, the closing of wing D in Prince, which transferred 85 prisoners to Saint Gillis and the transfer of 22 agents from Prince to Saint Gillis, while the prison of Saint Gillis itself had to transfer 11 agents to Wallonia. These measures will ensure that 340 of 365 agents are employed in Saint Gillis. However, this still means a shortage of 25 agents, while 85 prisoners have been added and there is still a recruitment stop which will slowly recalibrate this number of effectives. The large shortage of prison agents poses a real security risk to the staff of the prison and to society. In addition to the measures already mentioned, do you, Minister, provide for additional measures to deal with the problem in the prison in Saint-Gilles? Can you confirm that the letter from the four competent Community ministers has not been answered so far? Do you intend to reply to that letter after all? Do you recognise the security risks associated with this staff shortage? Do you consider reviewing the recruitment stop in Saint Gillis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u2	Minister, the end of last year was particularly difficult for inmates and prison officers in the country's thirty-two prisons. We know that, from 17 to 22 December, a strike movement took place on a general basis. As a result of this action, you were pleased with the resumption of work decided by the unions, since an agreement – which I believe is fragile – had been reached on pre-retirement leave, the flexibility bonus, the uniform and, finally, the commitment of fifty-four people to complete the framework for deradicalization in prison. Nevertheless, the officers of Mons prison, among others, expressed dissatisfaction and continued their action until 29 December, stating that the resumption of work was justified only for financial reasons. In particular, they denounced the incompleteness of the framework, 214 full-time equivalents instead of the 249 required. In addition, they deplored the fact that pre-pension leave did not depend solely on your authority or that the granting of a flexibility bonus required the approval of the Minister of Budget; in short, that the December 22 agreement remained very uncertain. At the same time, there has been a worrying deterioration in the conditions of detention for detainees, as they have been deprived of visits, showers or access to the meadow. At Saint-Gilles prison, which is one of the most overcrowded in the country, the situation has become extremely tense in the sense that training, cultural and sporting activities, social, psychological and philosophical support services have already been extremely limited since the end of June. Secondly, the replacement of the guards by police officers already exhausted by their mobilisation due to level 4 in Brussels and level 3 everywhere else in the name of the fight against the terrorist threat has proved particularly complicated. This systematic replacement prevents law enforcement from carrying out all their tasks and results in a significant cost to local police areas. I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, whether these additional tasks assumed by local police will be taken over financially by the FPS Justice. On the other hand – but this may be of greater interest to your colleague from the Interior and the police areas – we must take into account the hours of compensation for this staff. This is also the case for civil protection, which has been called for reinforcement. Since a new security corps of 1,600 people had been announced, was there any thought being given to the allocation of part of that staff in support of local police areas in the event of a prison strike, as several heads of corps called for? What about the consultation with the community ministers responsible for assisting prisoners regarding the resumption of activities suspended at Saint-Gilles prison, and perhaps in other prisons? What about your plan to postpone to the end of the legislature the coming into force of the chapters of the Dupont Act that specifically concern the socio-professional reintegration of prisoners? You have made it clear on several occasions that the entry into force of these chapters is more necessary than ever, in the context of prison management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u3	Minister, the press echoed last December that all activities at Saint-Gilles prison had been suspended since June 30, 2015. This includes library, training, French courses, access to sports halls, computer courses, etc. This means that 720 detainees are confined to their cells 22 hours a day, which is obviously contrary to the 2005 Law of Principles. The situation in this prison in Saint-Gilles, where I went, is difficult. The director of the institution explained to me that because of the lack of prison staff, the usual collective activities could not be carried out safely. He therefore suspended them. This means that twenty-six services and a hundred persons providing assistance to those who normally work in Saint-Gilles prison are virtually unemployed in technical terms. If I understand that the lack of prison staff can sometimes hinder the proper functioning of a prison, sometimes simple common sense adjustments in the organization and management of people's movements could make things easier. We have seen, for example, at Saint-Gilles prison, that access to the library is in the same corridor as the medical centre where detainees can, on request, go freely without a guard, which is not the case for the library. Would it be possible to provide safe access to the library for inmates? If you can go to the medical centre on the same corridor, why can't you go to the library? This is one example among others and is, I hope, the subject of reflection. It is not up to us here in Parliament to go into the details of the practical organisation of a prison, but to warn about possibilities. This is in particular the interest of field visits, which are used to bring the information back to here. Minister, have the usual collective activities resumed in Saint-Gilles prison? If this is not the case, or if some of them remain suspended, what are the reasons for this? Is this simply a lack of staff, as mentioned by the Director? Has an evaluation been made of each activity, and whether or not it is possible to maintain it, subject to all safety guarantees? According to our information, contacts have been made between the prison management, the prison administration and your office in an attempt to find solutions. Had the suspension of collective activities had to be decided in other prisons? Finally, and perhaps this will be the subject of next week's debate, how do you intend, in general, to ensure that the collective activities, which are essential to the reintegration programmes of prisoners, are maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u4	Mr President, Mr Maingain, Mr Top, as I have said on several occasions, there is a rationalisation exercise in the penitentiary institutions. The aim is to allow prisons to continue to operate correctly, despite the structural reduction in staff due to the government's imposed personnel savings. Other working methods are being developed to ensure that the penitentiary facilities can work with the available effectives. In Saint-Gilles, this exercise has been completed over the past weekend. The preliminary result should allow temporary local adjustments to be made, pending completion of the exercise for all prisons. In the rationalization exercise, the safety of the personnel is a premise that always prevails. The reorganization of services and timetables must therefore always be considered in terms of safety. If we did not make adjustments, there would indeed be a safety problem. At the same time, the rights of detainees must be guaranteed, particularly with regard to collective activities in preparation for their reintegration. At present, the collective activities of Saint-Gilles Prison have not yet been resumed. Only the preau and the collective visit are possible. Individual activities may, on the other hand, be organised. Activities were suspended as a result of staff action at the end of June 2015. Following the consultation between the trade unions and the prison management, it was decided to suspend collective activities because of the lack of staff and the security concerns associated with the lack of staff. It was agreed that the situation should be reviewed regularly with a view to resuming collective activities. I hope they will be able to resume with the recent reinforcement of agents from Forest. At my request, my services will take special care of this. In other prisons, some activities were interrupted but not to the same extent as in Saint-Gilles. As regards the reply to the letter from the Community ministers, Mr Top, I have to admit that there was a misunderstanding in sending the letters, but I can tell you that the answer went to every minister on 18 December. The suspension of collective services at Saint-Gilles prison was not the subject of a consultation between me and the Ministers of the Communities. The services concerned are heard by the management of the prison of Saint-Gilles and are kept informed of developments. At my request, my services will pay particular attention to the follow-up of measures aimed at the rapid resumption of community services. Of the 20 recruitments for which I received the admission, three were assigned to St. Gillis. With the emptying of wing D van Vorst, 22 agents were transferred from Vorst to Sint-Gillis on 11 January 2016. It is therefore about 25 new workers in Saint Gillis. Efforts are therefore being made. I await the result of the rationalisation exercise to see whether further efforts are needed. The recovery or payment of overtime, if any, by police officers in connection with strikes in prisons, as well as in the performance of other tasks such as securing public space in the context of levels 3 and 4, is the responsibility of their employer, i.e. the police zone or the federal police. There is no question that the new "monitoring and protection" directorate will resume the task of replacing prison officers during a strike. I am currently negotiating with the unions on the guaranteed service, precisely with the aim, among other things, of no longer having to call on other services. The Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 on the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners contains a very good view of the content and objectives of deprivation of liberty. It will remain the guiding principle for policy in prisons. Indeed, this law has not yet fully entered into force, but it is for the most part in force. Only a few provisions need to be slightly amended. In 2016, work on this subject will continue. These include prison control, labour and training, detention planning and health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the rationalization exercise following the structural staff cuts decided upon by the government was deployed last weekend in Saint Gillis, with safety as a precondition. I have an additional question on that. I did not understand whether this was done in consultation and with the agreement of the staff and trade unions. Is that carried by them, too? I refer to the many problems that have been experienced, not only with the staff but also with regard to the security climate in and around the prison. It's important to keep an eye on that. I am also concerned about another point. You say that the activities, and especially the collective activities, have not yet started, but that they will start as soon as possible, if I understand correctly. This concern was also expressed in the letter of the Community ministers. You reply that this will happen as soon as possible. I call for this to be done as quickly as possible and for a deadline to be set. Otherwise, as my colleague pointed out, it is indeed contrary to the law. There is an urgent need to make sure that this is done. Finally, I would like to thank you for your reply to the relevant Community ministers. You said that it was a misunderstanding and that they have now received an answer. In summary, was there consultation with the staff and representatives of the trade unions? Was there a deal? When can collective activities actually be fully launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u6	Minister, we cannot say that the horizon is emerging. This is, in any case, my impression after hearing you. Budgetary choices have indeed been made, but it is they who may create such a differential between the tasks to be undertaken in prisons and the capacity in terms of available staff that there is no alternative today to suspend a number of activities which are still necessary to prepare for the professional reintegration of prisoners. This is, in the end, a political choice that you take with your government. Before considering projects such as that of the mega-prison in Haren which will be very expensive – we will come back to the issue – perhaps we should have thought of other priorities in terms of prison policy and the allocation of budgetary resources that are reduced from budgetary year to fiscal year for the activity and supervision in prisons. Last October, in response to a question from our colleague, Mrs Özlem Özen, you said that a "rationalisation" working group had been set up with the trade union organisations. I quote: "The aim is to allow prisons to continue to work properly. Despite the structural decrease in staff, work is progressing well and producing encouraging results." Today, I don't know where these are! To this day, I don't see them!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u8	The attached questions Nos. 8188 and 8189 by Mr. Denis Ducrame are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u9	Mr. Minister, on 1 December 2015, the weekly Dag Allen published an article on working conditions in Root's prison. The report, drawn up on 26 October, was downright devastating. Working conditions can be described as unhygienic, unhealthy and even dangerous. The report said that the various infringements must be dealt with immediately. I asked you about this a few weeks ago. I would like to ask a number of additional questions today. What is the state of play of the action plan drawn up for the Root prison? Is there any possibility that prisoners may claim compensation from the Belgian State after the infringements have been committed? Following the adoption of the report, have you stopped working until the action plan is fully implemented? If not, why not? Have you considered the option of moving prisoners to prisons where the studios are okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u10	The FOD WASO wrote in its warning letter that an action plan should be proposed by 16 November 2015. The FPS Justice has submitted the action plan in time. On 7 December 2015, the action plan was discussed with the FOD WASO. Because the FOD WASO accepts the action plan, there is no need to stop work. The move of prisoners is not the issue either. There have been no claims for compensation to my knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u11	Minister, I have received an answer to most of my questions but not to the second. You say that no claims for compensation have been made. That was not my question, however. My question was whether prisoners could claim compensation in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u12	Mr President, Minister, according to information from the Apache news site, it is possible to retrieve not only the IP address via online searches, without using the computers on the State Security Network, but also on which operating system the people's PC works and which browser they use. Do you not think that it is necessary to immediately release part of the promised EUR 400 million for the fight against terror, so that at least the security of the State can be provided with the necessary information technology to make its agents work invisible on the Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u13	Mr President, my services are currently drawing up proposals within the framework of the proposed EUR 400 million for security and counter-terrorism. The security of the State is also involved in this exercise. Given the importance of information management and security within an intelligence service, the necessary attention is logically paid to the computer needs of the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u14	Minister, if I may believe today's newspapers, you will be short of a lot of money. The questions raised by the Minister for the Interior and yourself exceed more than EUR 400 million. I hope your question for the security of the state will be withheld.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u15	Mr President, Minister, other Members also have a question on the subject. My somewhat limited question focuses mainly on the financial side of the matter, which is an important aspect. The last week there was some commotion in the press about the release of a suspect by the Antwerp KI because the court psychiatrist, who had nevertheless accepted the assignment, had refused to submit his expert report on time. He did that because of the slow payments by the Justice Department. That's what they told me. You will reply on that part to other Members later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u16	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u17	I can't help it. You responded to the story in the press. You stated that a lot of refunds had been made. You've been given a legacy from the past. I've heard parties explain that recently. A cleanup had to be done. This also applies to you for the payment of, among other things, legal experts. You have also pointed out very clearly that you have made a number of efforts in this area. I suspect, however, that the issue will also be discussed in due course. An issue which is linked to this and which is once again being given more attention as a result of this incident is the question of monitoring the quality of legal experts and, above all, of the independence of experts. We have asked questions about this independence in the past. Especially when it comes to medical expertise, questions are sometimes asked about experts who, on the one hand, act as independent experts for insurance companies and, on the other hand, so-called independent experts. Parties concerned in such procedures have already raised this question of independence. Independence and quality are close together. So the question of quality is also asked. The fee must be sufficient. After all, this is also an element that regularly appears in the news. Recently, this happened as a result of that payment. For interpreters, too, it is often said that the amounts of compensation are rather low. At the time, we tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, which we are pleased it was adopted during the previous legislature, in order to establish a national register, which could also include quality criteria. This may be accompanied by an increase in the fees if necessary. I come back to quality, impartiality and independence. You said, among other things, that an audit would be carried out at the Supreme Court of Justice. In fact, I would particularly like to ask about the state of play of the National Register of Experts of the Court of First Instance, the impartiality and independence and the fight against conflict of interests. Mr President, we have a number of problems with the legal experts. That is why I would have liked to have had a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Becq, I have been very concerned about the proper remuneration for the quality required of legal experts since I took office. The fact that the legal experts are an important judicial actor was demonstrated last week by a terrible deficiency of a court psychiatrist in an important case of double attempted murder. This difficult balance between proper remuneration and the quality requirements of the experts is particularly evident in criminal matters. In civil matters, the parties are largely in favour of the choice of remuneration of legal experts at commercial rates. However, in criminal matters, the Justice Department pays the expert fees which cover only the expenses incurred for the performance of those contracts of general interest. The public authorities act in the interests of the persons entitled under the law, whose costs are recovered after conviction. I have been working on this relationship between rate and quality for some time during the year when I had the pleasure of being Minister of Justice. I would therefore like to give you an update of all the actions I have already taken on the framework of legal experts and at least thank you for the positive impetus you yourself have given as a Member of Parliament with the law of 10 April 2014 establishing a quality framework for legal experts and interpreters and translators in particular. The Law of 10 April 2014, published by us on 19 December 2014, establishes the National Register of Court Experts to ensure better management of the legal experts. That law will enter into force on 1 December 2016, with a transitional period of five years for experts who are already working for Justice today. The experts are currently centrally listed in the embryo of the national register, which will be made available to the magistrates before 1 December 2016. The law obliges the magistrates to choose a legal expert from the register. This can only be waived if the specific expertise in the register is not available. All possible expertises have already been listed. In a few months' time, the legal experts will be able to check their expertise in the provisional national register. The advantage of this list of expertise is that the magistrates can use a list containing the specific expertise of each expert in the choice of a court expert, so that they can make a better informed choice in the individual file of who is best placed to provide independent, impartial and high-quality expertise. The law also provides for a number of quality criteria to be met by experts, both in terms of professional knowledge and experience and on the basis of legal knowledge. The law also provides for a deontological code. In order to implement these criteria in practice, the working group has recently proposed a number of legislative amendments to me. Parliament will soon be able to take note of this project. Quality criteria and their application are the essential part of the law, as legal experts can be suspended or deleted on that basis. It is also intended to provide for a permanent evaluation of the legal experts on these quality standards. In concrete terms, the project already has the following: the speciality list in both country languages, a central listing of all legal experts known to the Justice Department, the model sheet in which the experts will be asked to communicate their expertise and experience, the deontological code in both country languages, the legislative changes to introduce and follow up the specific quality requirements, the implementation of the training conditions and the training programme and the budget for the development of the website. The intention is to have the pilot application ready by June 2016 through which this relationship of Justice experts will be managed. I also asked the Supreme Court of Justice to audit the impartial and independent appointment of legal experts. The reason for this was the problem of medical expertise and its independence vis-à-vis insurance companies. The Supreme Court of Justice was asked to make recommendations. All Dutch-speaking Presidents of the courts have already been questioned. The recommendations are expected by the end of March 2016 and the intention is to include some of them in the implementation of the National Register of Court Experts. The National Register of Courts experts will also give rise to renewal on an organisational level. It is my intention to have the entire accounting and document flows of legal experts managed by specialised offices in court fees set up in the field, close to the expert-Justice relationship. The purpose of these offices is also to plan meetings with all judicial actors, including lawyers and legal experts. This way, everyone can manage their agenda more efficiently. I hope that this will speed up the process of dealing with court cases. For the legal experts, it would mean a considerable reduction in the problem of waiting times. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the actions I am taking on tariffs. The DNA and saliva rates and the tariffs of bailiffs and telecom operators have been reduced to current costs thanks to technological evolutions and efficiency in the respective sectors. Other tariffs are updated and brought into line with the rates applied by other administrations here or abroad. This is the case for interpreters, translators and court psychiatrists. I refer to the adjustment of the VAT Code that I have initiated. She ensures that the suppliers of the government do not have to pay the VAT until they have received the payment from the government. This avoids the need for suppliers to advance large amounts of VAT. My action plan Court fees consist of 32 actions. For reasons of time, I have mentioned only a few important ones here. It is a testament to the fact that the Justice Department is doing everything in its power to develop a good sense of opinion and a high-quality relationship with its legal experts. It goes without saying that justice expects the same attitude from its suppliers and legal experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u19	I will take two important aspects out of your answer. First of all, I understand you're working on it quickly. The previous legislature took a long time to get the law published. You say that you will be ready in June 2016. I know there will be a transitional period of five years. Meanwhile, judges can make a clear choice in the list they draw up. They have an insight into who endorsed the deontological code. This is an important element of impartiality, even if the obligation to subscribe to a code of ethics cannot be imposed on the experts in the transitional period. Secondly, I find it interesting to hear that you consider it an experiment. You work with efficiency and planning to achieve a more efficient organisation. That was one of the complaints of the experts and the interpreters. The rates are charged regardless of their waiting times. They are very grateful for the VAT. That was indeed a big problem. They were charging VAT when they hadn't actually been paid yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u20	Mr President, Minister, it was recently reported in the press that a person in custody was released because the expert's report was delayed for too long. The psychiatrist refused to deliver the report because, according to his own statements, the Justice Department owes him 162 000 euros for late invoices. In an initial response, you indicated that almost all the invoices from this expert should have been paid by the end of January. The amount due would also be lower with your knowledge than what the psychiatrist has stated. We haven't received recommunication within 24 hours. Then you also mentioned the amounts paid out in 2015, if I recall correctly more than EUR 200 000. This is very painful for those involved in this case. The released man was imposed on certain conditions, including a restraining order with the victim, but allegedly he would not comply. The first President of the Appeals Court understands the situation of the psychiatrist and lays the responsibility for Justice. Hence a number of very specific questions. Firstly, do you now have an idea of the exact amount due to the expert? If so, what is the amount and when will it be paid? Secondly, what is the total amount of late payments for court psychiatrists and judicial experts in general in Belgium at the moment? Thirdly, in recent years have experts decided not to submit their reports or not to accept orders from the court for payment problems? If so, how many? Fourthly, how do you intend to deal with this problem in the future? By when do you want to have fully eliminated the late payment to legal experts? How do you intend to avoid further legal experts refusing to cooperate with the Justice Department until then? I think we agree that we must do everything we can to keep good experts. This also means that they must be paid correctly and in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u21	Mr President, Minister, Mr Van Hecke has outlined the situation that I am asking here today. At the beginning of the legislature, Minister, you said that you would make a strong commitment to eliminating the late invoices to suppliers of justice. You also received an additional budget of EUR 146 million. So we cannot say that nothing would have happened, because under the previous government we all received regular complaints from interpreters or prosecutors. In the meantime, this has been pushed a little bit, but such problems are still emerging from time to time. Mr Minister, how large are the total backlogs at the moment and how are they evolving? How big are the backseats per sector, so for the interpreters, the court psychiatrists, the telecoms sector? How did you allocate the EUR 146 million budget to these sectors? On the basis of which criteria are the priorities for reimbursement laid down?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mr Van Hecke, with the appropriations obtained in the course of 2015, a maximum effort has been made to get rid of the loopholes in my department. It is a total of 171 million euros. EUR 146 million was granted following the budgetary control of April 2015 and EUR 25 million was granted in December 2014 by way of use of underutilised appropriations. In particular for court fees in criminal matters, that effort amounted to EUR 72 million in cost statements, the invoice date of which according to the centrally managed payment application was before 1 January 2015. By the way, the figures my administration gave me yesterday show that in 2015 there will be virtually no backlogs in court fees or other costs. For example, in 2015 a total of 142 million euros in court fees were paid for the 2015 invoices themselves and before. So that's the EUR 72 million I just mentioned. The largest loopholes were logically found at the largest cost items, namely telephone taps, genetic research, mostly NICC, bailiffs, interpreters and translators. In accordance with the rules on judicial costs in criminal matters, judicial service providers should submit their statement of costs together with their expert report to the requesting authority concerned, which may be the judicial service or the police. Following the validation of the data by the Magistrate and the input of the data into CGAB by the judicial service, and after evaluation by the requesting authority, the cost statements shall be forwarded on a regular basis with an accompanying summary board to the Central Court Office, which shall be responsible for their payment. For ordinary judicial service providers, the payment by the Registry is also made through CGAB, through the commission account at the disposal of the Registrys. From the end of 2014 and several times in the course of 2015, with a view to cleaning up the backlogs, the judicial services were asked to submit without delay the cost statements they receive from experts and judicial service providers in the centrally managed payment application CGAB. This is in order to ensure that the picture of the arrears is as complete as possible and to know the volume of outstanding cost statements on court fees sufficiently early in the course of the proceedings of the criminal proceedings. On the question of the payments due to the court psychiatrist who did not submit his report in good time even though he had accepted the assignment and had already attended preparatory work, I can inform you that EUR 233 000 was paid to the expert concerned in 2015, including the final payment of around EUR 61 000. It took place on 17 December 2015. However, at the time he announced that he would not wish to continue his mission, on 28 October, if I am right, he had already received EUR 148 000 for that year. The FPS Justice Department, after 17 December, was still aware of the expert's invoices worth 26 000 euros which had followed the normal administrative route, and which will be paid by the FPS Justice Department. The payment of EUR 15 999 has already been ordered. For the invoices for around EUR 85 000 which would still be overdue and which Mr Dillen himself referred to in relation to my cabinet, every effort has been made, in consultation with the administration of the FPS, to identify the phase of processing these invoices and to speed up their processing. The results already obtained from this inquiry by the requesting judicial authorities showed that a small proportion of these invoices, 15%, were very old and had not yet been introduced into the CGAB system, so that my administration did not know them. Another part was very recent and therefore it was not at all a matter of late; these invoices were only recently introduced into the payment application and its cost statements were only recently sent to my administration for payment purposes. It is incomprehensible that the expert concerned, who has received payments of recent invoices for EUR 233 000, but in his own words is a creditor for a number of other, also mostly recent invoices, seeking a statement that a psychiatric report should not be submitted in good time, in accordance with Article 2 of the General Rules of Procedure on the costs of justice in criminal matters, of 28 December 1950. This Royal Decree provides that any irresponsible delay in the performance of the contract or in the submission of the report entails a reduction in the expert's fees. The magistrate who brings an expert's case in the public interest to find out the correct facts and facts in a criminal case shall, whenever possible, set a time limit within which the order must be completed and the report must be deposited. Moreover, within the rules governing judicial costs in criminal matters, the requesting judicial authority has the possibility, pursuant to Article 3 of Programme Law 2 of 27 December 2006, supplemented by the Law of 8 June 2008 on various provisions, to punish the requested person who refuses to comply with the order for which he was applied for with a fine of EUR 50 to EUR 500. I have sent the message to the judicial authorities that this possibility should not be left untapped where necessary. As regards the question regarding late payments to court psychiatrists and legal experts in general, I can inform you that in the CGAB payment application, for the mental examinations on today's date, about 16 000 euros of known cost statements with an invoice date older than 2015, are available. These are statements of costs which must be returned to the judicial authorities after verification by the Central Office of the Court of First Instance because there were no elements to allow proper payment by the administration and to enable the documents recently introduced as a result of the final examination of the judicial services. The known cost statements not yet paid were not yet paid, mainly because they were not administratively correct or because a correction to the valuation should be made in the meantime because the correct rate was not applied. The situation known in the system thus indicates that the Court of Justice did the maximum with the additional appropriations in order to clear the arrears of EUR 171 million and the portion of court fees of EUR 72 million. On the question of whether experts have decided in recent years not to submit their report or not to take orders because payments were still made, I can only say that I know only a sporadic number of cases, including that of the interpreter who refused to carry out an assignment in 2015, and now this recent proposal by the court psychiatrist, which is the most flagrant, which I deeply regret. By the way, there is a big difference between not accepting a contract because it is slow to pay and not performing an accepted contract for the same reason. All this makes it clear that since my arrival I have been very concerned about the proper remuneration for the quality required of the legal experts. This difficult balance between correct remuneration and expert quality requirements is particularly evident in criminal matters. In civil matters, the parties are largely responsible for the choice and remuneration of legal experts at commercial tariffs. However, in criminal matters, the Justice Department pays the experts fees which only cover the expenses incurred in carrying out these tasks of general interest. As has been said, the public authorities are acting here in the interest of the legal person from whom these costs are recovered after conviction. I have already worked on this quality/tariff ratio well during the year when I had the pleasure of being Minister of Justice. I would also like to give you the state of play of all the actions I have already taken in relation to the framework of the legal experts, in my reply to oral question No. 8507, which I just gave you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed reply and the overview of the backlogs and the way in which they have been dealt with in recent years. We are, of course, aware that the problem for a large part is a legacy from the past, an account that needs to be cleared. I'm noticing one case. You say that 15% are very old invoices that have not yet been inserted into the system. If the older invoices have not been inserted into the system, then your administration apparently has no idea about them either. That worries me a little, because somehow there has to be an overview, even if they are old invoices. How will you proceed in the future? I also note that, at the time of the expert's decision, EUR 148 000 had been paid on 28 October and that additional payments had subsequently been made, but only after he had made that decision. That is also a relevant fact. In general, as I said just now, it is so important not to build up behind-stables and pay invoices in a correct and timely manner, if everything is administratively in order. Running up the back stash is a bad thing. We have now had one case. Maybe it's not the most ideal case we've known. There have perhaps been more painful situations in the past of people who have not been paid, such as translators-interpreters with the VAT problem at the time. That is very damaging, because justice must strive to have good experts. We have every interest in this. It would be a shame if good experts in any field no longer accept orders because of the poor and late payment. That would reduce the quality of justice. I call for quality assurance to be followed very closely by the payment of invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u24	Minister, unpaid invoices are indeed a legacy of the past. I am therefore very pleased that the problem has been followed up and that a major discharge has finally taken place. If, in general, the people working for justice are not properly paid, then it affects confidence in the justice system. However, I believe that the fact that an expert accepts an assignment but does not carry it out afterwards also undermines confidence in the justice system. Especially in the specific case we have discussed, the consequences are very great. I hope that experts will continue to be able to be paid properly in the future, as the backlog has already been largely repaid at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u25	Mr Minister, this question about the delay is not directly linked to justice, but to a very pressing problem in our society today. The influx of unaccompanied minors has increased significantly since the second half of 2015. As a result, the need for new guardians is very great. In the Justice Committee of 13 January, you said that the necessary efforts will be made over the next few weeks to assign some of the young people a guardian, which, of course, we strongly encourage and welcome. The problem of not paying or not paying for a piece of these guardians still appears to exist. Some guardians recently informed me that they still have several thousand euros left. The remuneration at the time of appointment is paid very quickly, but it continues to wait for the annual lump sums to be paid, expenses per kilometre, administrative costs and so on. It was also promised to the guardians that the expenses incurred would be reimbursed within two months. According to my sources, this did not happen at all in 2015. You will agree with me when I say that we have a great shortage of guardians. It is therefore important that they are paid correctly. That's why I have the following questions. Are additional resources provided to eliminate the backlog of voluntary guardians and to ensure that there is no delay in the new influx of guardians? Do you have any idea when the costs incurred in 2015 will be fully reimbursed? Can you guarantee that the costs and expenses of these guardians will soon be reimbursed within two months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u26	Ms Temmerman, the claims of guardians and interpreters relating to the period before 2015 were largely paid during the first quarter of 2015. Due to the large increase in unaccompanied minors as of June 2015, I asked for and obtained additional resources in the course of 2015. If it is necessary in view of the increase in inflow, I will not fail to ask for additional resources again in 2016. For 2015, the amount of the various expenditure on custody processing amounts to EUR 2 000 920, of which EUR 1 507 978 relates to the claims of guardians. At present, an amount of EUR 65 000 is still available for the recent claims of guardians in payment. There is therefore no delay as far as guardians are concerned, at least in so far as the claims were lodged in good time, and a major effort has been made to reduce the backlog to a maximum. The system for processing claims has been improved in order to achieve administrative simplification for guardians in my services. From now on, a single claim for each type of expenditure shall be submitted electronically in a single instalment. This will significantly reduce the number of claims to be dealt with both for the guardian and for the service and speed up payments. I have already said that maximum efforts are being made to make payments as quickly as possible. The questions for reimbursement of mileage allowances are the subject of an administrative check, which takes some time in view of the numbers involved. In future, more targeted and sample-based work will be carried out in order to achieve a reduction in deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It will indeed look better in the future. It is absolutely necessary to request additional appropriations for 2016. You say there are no deficits. I certainly have knowledge of several files. You did give an explanation for the mileage allowances, but not for the annual flat-rate allowance per pupil to accompany them. Nothing was paid for this in 2015. Nevertheless, let us remain positive and hope that this belongs to the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u28	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, Justice's tracking of drivers whose licences have been withdrawn as a result of a revocation seems to have, for some time, been undermined by an intriguing phenomenon. Indeed, it would appear that some drivers, providing for a forthcoming revocation, would manage to escape the execution of the penalty, simply declaring the loss or theft of the driver's licence and requesting a duplicate from the municipal administration of the place of residence. The only precaution is that the application must be made before the court's decision and before the municipality is notified of the sanction. With this in mind, the original permit and the duplicate, at the time of the summons to the Registry for deposit of the licence from which he is deposed, the fraudster will only have to hand over the duplicate, or better, the original, and keep the other. Of course, the judgement is still in force, but the person concerned will have a material title which he or she can present in the course of a possible inspection. The most intriguing in this situation is that the Registry does not appear to know that a duplicate has been granted by the municipality and therefore does not request restitution. Apparently, there would be no necessary connection with the municipal services to verify the existence of this duplicate. Minister, do you confirm the existence of such facts? If so, what measures do you intend to take to eradicate this type of fraud? Should not communication between courts and municipal services be bilaterally optimized with regard to driving licence revocations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u29	Mr Clarinval, indeed, I have learned from various sources that such situations would have occurred. On the basis of the information available to me, I am not in a position to confirm or invalidate it. What I am convinced is that we must do everything possible to prevent such cases to the maximum extent possible. Currently, we are working in collaboration with the police services and the Mobility FPS in a database in which both immediate withdrawals and retentions of driving licences are registered as well as revocations of driving rights. For this project, the Justice FPS provides the necessary resources. These resources have already been committed in 2015 and will be implemented in the course of 2016. As a result of the project, street police officers will be able to find out very quickly whether or not a driving ban has been imposed. The public prosecutor's offices will have an up-to-date view of the driving licences. For example, they will see if several different permits are in the circuit, if the permit is still valid, if the person has passed specific tests, etc. Much better communication will therefore be possible between the various actors, namely the police, the justice system, rehabilitation centres, municipalities and mobility. In this regard, it is also planned to establish better communication between the judiciary and the municipalities. It is in the light of these examples that I am in favour of creating a digital value for driving licences. I will discuss this in more detail with my colleagues. This digital value of the driver's licence powered by the police's ICT systems, Mobility and Justice, and good controls by the police services will allow for faster detection of invalid driver's licences. Indeed, it would appear that some repeat offenders currently have several permits and that, as a result, removing a permit from them is ineffective. Therefore, the creation of a data bank is a first step. But it will also require us to review a number of operational processes among the various partners. The result will be a strong professionalization of the approach of repeat offenders or persons driving without a permit. By linking the different databases (police, Mobility, Justice, rehabilitation centres and municipalities) to the digital value of driving licences and harmonized processes among the different partners, we hope to be able to better understand this type of case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. The data bank you mentioned will provide police officers with access to all data relating to the individuals in question. Furthermore, if this data bank is also accessible to the municipalities, the latter will be able to inject information about possible duplicates, which will help to raise the attention of the police officers, if necessary. I therefore encourage you to continue in this direction, which seems to me to be that of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u31	Minister, you will probably have also recently read the opinion paper of the General Director of Child Focus who would like to see a better approach to child pornography by the Justice Department. It is probably no secret that perpetrators are becoming smarter and smarter and that it is becoming increasingly difficult for police and courts to follow and combat abuse. It would also become more violent. Especially with regard to the possession of children's pornographic images, there is a need to act very quickly and strictly, because research has since shown that about 25% of the owners subsequently dare to act as perpetrators. According to Child Focus' CEO, there should be some sort of rapid response team, similar to counter-terrorism, where child pornography should be given absolute priority. Police and justice need to identify and locate victims much more quickly to stop the abuse. He claims that Belgium is heavily behind other European Member States. The perpetrators must be identified and located, often the only way to catch them. However, they are getting smarter and smarter to stay out of the hands of the Justice Department on the Internet, and that is a very difficult task. It is also noted that cooperation between the various actors fighting against sexual exploitation of children should be even better. In your policy paper as well as in the newspaper, you announced that you want to play an important role in the fight against the sexual exploitation of children through a bill Child Focus. Child Focus should analyse, treat and forward the reports received. At some point, you even suggested that someone in front of a computer screen keep an eye on everything and then forward it to the police. Minister, what is the state of play of the plans or your bill to give Child Focus more opportunities in the fight against child sexual abuse? Which steps do you have to take? What timeline do you have in mind? If you were to follow the track to have a number of things viewed on the internet and froze off the internet to pass that on to the police, then there is one big problem that we have already raised when discussing the policy paper. If someone's looking at such pornographic images on the Internet, they're punishable, because they can't. A policeman enjoys immunity and can do so in his investigation. If you give that order to Child Focus now, that means that you will have to grant immunity to those employees, otherwise they will commit criminal offences. Will you grant the employees of Child Focus immunity? You know my concern about this. I'm gonna ask the question again anyway. What guarantee is there that it cannot be abused? Of course, they're not policemen. What steps will you take to make the fight against child pornography an absolute priority for Justice? Apparently, we're hanging out behind us. What initiatives are being taken to reduce the backlog? Finally, what initiatives are there, perhaps, other than those we have just mentioned, to make sure that children's porn images can be removed from the Internet more quickly in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u32	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, I am pleased to give you a statement on the situation with regard to the draft law to transpose the European Directive 2011/93 on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, as well as child pornography and the European Directive 2011/36 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. On October 23, 2015, I did ask the Council of State to give an opinion on the draft bill prepared by my services. In its opinion of 25 November, a number of useful observations were made on the basis of which the draft texts were immediately adapted. Thus, it was proposed to consider the new provisions of article 383bis, paragraphs 1 and 2, of the Criminal Code, which included the criminalization of the actual manufacture, dissemination or other acts of the kind, of child pornography and of the search and viewing of such images with knowledge of the relationship between the two paragraphs and the examination of the higher legal standards of the right to privacy and freedom of expression. This work has been completed in the meantime and the draft text has been reworked to bring it into line with the terms of the supranational provisions and international obligations. It is in the context of the transposition of the above-mentioned directive on sexual abuse, and in particular the initiatives to be able to extract websites with child pornography material quickly offline, that I have also provided a legal basis for recognising Child Focus as an organisation for handling the reports of such Internet sites. With regard to recognition, the Council of State considered it desirable to explicitly include in the law some of the conditions of recognition listed in the explanatory memorandum which ensure correct functioning rather than in the Royal Decree. After all, the present draft law introduces a penalty exclusion ground. This will now be regulated in a new article 383/1 of the Criminal Code, which will indicate to which obligations the conditions of approval determined by the King relate. For example, there will be explicit cooperation with an international association of Internet hotlines to combat child pornography - the INHOPE network of which Child Focus is a member - the monitoring of the acts referred to in the law, the monitoring of persons who will deal with the denunciations and the prohibition of the creation of a data bank containing child pornography. The bill and the Royal Decree have been adapted and reconciled with each other. The immunity in question therefore, of course, concerns only the acts of law granted to the organisation, in particular the receipt, analysis of content and origin, and the transmission to the police and judicial authorities. Other investigative acts remain a purely police task. The investigation is directed by the judicial authorities. With the rapid transmission of websites hosted abroad by Child Focus to INHOPE, foreign notifications, which account for more than 90% of all notifications, may lead to a rapid removal of the images by foreign service providers upon request or notification of foreign hotlines or judicial authorities. With this, Belgium will not dangle the tail of the peloton, but, on the contrary, will again fully incorporate its European commitment to the fight against child pornography and sexual abuse in children. The revised texts will be submitted to the government next week and will soon be submitted to Parliament. I hope that the debate in committee can start in February. The practical arrangements for cooperation between the police, the prosecutor's office and approved organizations will of course not be formally implemented until after the entry into force of the law and the royal decree, but many contacts have already taken place between Child Focus, the judicial authorities and the integrated police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u33	I am pleased that the draft law is already advanced. I note that the Council of State is asking for additional safeguards on immunity and the grounds for exclusion. You know that's what I'm worried about. If we give those people from Child Focus immunity, we need to introduce new conditions regarding the screening of their employees. Not that I think there are people out there with bad intentions, but they can sign up after that. I don't have to explain Morkhoven's case to you. The immunity could be an attraction for people with bad intentions. I know Child Focus is taking that seriously right now. My doubts are not about today, but about how it could be. We have to be very careful. I look forward to the debates in February.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u34	Mr Minister, my colleague Eric Massin has already questioned you in committee on 16 December about a royal order of 27 November 2015 to reduce the costs of DNA justice. This question echoed the discontent and concern of several accredited laboratories, faced with a reduction in the rates of genetic expertise in criminal matters, which, according to these laboratories, could put their existence at risk. In response, you stated that the strong trust and quality relationship that now exists between laboratories and courts could continue to exist. You would, you would say, ensure a permanent assessment of the situation, balancing the interests of each laboratory with the need to maintain the costs of justice at a reasonable level of cost to the person in need. Meanwhile, we learned that the Bio.be laboratory in Gosselies would close its doors. Similarly, the Director of the Forensic Institute of the University of Liège, Professor Philippe Boxho, made an announcement that the Liège DNA lab would be closed by the end of the year due to a lack of budgetary balance. It is therefore the two laboratories in the south of the country that will disappear in the coming months, following this royal decree which entered into force on 1 December last. As far as the closure of the DNA section in Liège is concerned, it could reach the other two sections of the Forensic Institute: thethanatology section and the expertise section. It is therefore the survival of the Institute itself that is at stake. There, beyond the service rendered, there are thirteen persons currently employed. Minister, can you explain the logic of setting the new scale? Did you know that it was going to pose insurmountable budgetary difficulties to some laboratories in the country? As part of setting the new scale, I understand that proposals have been made to reduce tariffs from 20 to 25 per cent, thus partially meeting your targets. But these proposals were not considered appropriate, I am told. Is that correct? You announced an ongoing assessment of the situation. What will be your attitude in the coming weeks? Do you intend to meet with the interested parties to consider the measures that can be taken to save the Forensic Institute of Liège? Do you assume that the analyses are now sent to Germany rather than to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u35	Mr Demeyer, I take careful note of your concern about the survival of the Forensic Institute of Liège. To date, however, no laboratory performing DNA analysis has yet closed its doors. Those who are licensed continue to perform genetic testing. I learn that many of them are trying to operate at a lower cost. The legal costs of DNA analysis in criminal matters are based on calculations made in the 2000s. In the meantime, their scientific and technical base has constantly evolved. Devices have been placed on the market, enabling a large number of laboratory procedures to be automated and carried out simultaneously. Therefore, an update of the tariffs was required. DNA analyses in the criminal field are carried out by nine approved laboratories, eight of which are located in Belgium. They derive only part of their income from analyses requested by the judicial authorities. In 2012, DNA analyses of convicted persons were outsourced in a specification. Five approved laboratories have submitted an estimate for this purpose, which amounted to less than one third of the current tariff. The order was finally outsourced for a cost of 29.9 euros plus VAT, a reduction of a factor of 10 from the current price of 317.17 euros. This shows that the profit margin for this service was high. The new rates were calculated on the basis of actual costs. By comparison, neighbouring countries take into account direct and indirect costs - in particular the staff and accommodation costs of the company, consumables, the need for EU accreditation according to the ISO 17025 quality system and the depreciation of investments. The new tariffs are of the same magnitude as those established in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, but still appreciably higher than prices in France or Germany. The quality requirements imposed by our legislation are maintained. At the request of university laboratories, consultation meetings were held on September 17 and November 19, 2015. During the second interview, the request of these institutes was granted to be able to carry out genetic analyses of convicted persons for the price of 60 euros, not 29.9 euros. It was also agreed to carry out an early assessment of the new tariffs four months after they were introduced on 1 December 2015. The detail of the current calculations as well as an international price comparison reinforces my confidence that the new tariffs represent fair compensation for costs. ADN analysis in criminal matters is part of the mission of general interest which implies that the authority does not pay on the basis of commercial tariffs, but at a cost. In addition, that authority shall recover such compensation from the accused. And, in the interest of the defendant, she only pays the costs of DNA analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u36	Minister, thank you for your very precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I come to you following a question I asked on 16 December to your colleague Jambon, Minister of the Interior, who sent me back to your department for a number of points. The Ligue des droits de l'homme (LDH) informed us of events that took place during the protests against the TTIP on 15 October 2015. In the course of the actions, the police allegedly forced a web TV cameraman, ZIN TV, to erase all the images shot during that day. An Italian journalist was also reportedly arrested by the police after filming a police intervention that day. It would appear that there are relatively common cases of intervention against journalists covering events of this kind, which is why I wanted to ask the relevant ministers about this. As Minister of Justice, do you have more concrete information on the specific case of the Human Rights League I have just mentioned? Have any complaints been filed in this context? If so, can you tell me what the results of the investigations were? In the event of a finding of interference with press freedom or any other form of excess on the part of the security forces in this context, have any measures been taken against those responsible? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u38	Mrs Grovonius, the case to which you refer is the subject of a judicial inquiry following a civil action. It is too early to say whether the investigation will involve a referral to the correctional court. As far as the operational directives of the police services are concerned, as part of their task of maintaining public order, they fall within the competence of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u39	Thank you for that non-response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 8572 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this is a very precise question because I was referred to you by your colleague, Secretary of State, Mr Francken. The question concerns imam Tarik Ibn Ali. An earlier written question to Secretary of State Francken showed that this imam is indeed Belgian and cannot therefore be deported. This imam has been living in our country for a long time and is therefore not, as was previously thought, mainly abroad and occasionally travelling to Belgium. According to several reports, he would have lived in Antwerp since 2006, more specifically in Borgerhout. According to the Antwerp Muslim community, he would proclaim very radical ideas. Minister, I have the following specific questions. Is this man being followed by your services and by the security of the state? What further steps or measures are you planning, as this man is spreading very radical messages?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u42	Mr President, Mr Metsu, Tarik Chadlioui, also known as Tarik Ibn Ali, is known as a preacher with a salafistic profile in the security of the state. Through his sermons, lectures and other activities he tries to spread the salafistic thought. He seems to be addressing and reaching out to young people in particular. The man is popular in Berber circles. He is also known as an important fundraiser in several European countries for salafistic projects. The data subject is properly monitored by the competent services, but you will understand that I cannot provide any further details on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u43	Then, Minister, I can only endorse your words and hope that this man will be followed very closely and properly, so that he cannot spread his radical ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u44	Question No 8641 by Mr Dallemagne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u45	Mr President, I do not read the Belgian Official Journal every day, but recently I took note of the ministerial decision that the criminal justice reform committees set up and appointed their members respectively. These committees will draw up a guidance paper to prepare the reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. They will then make a proposal for reform. The following are members of the Committee on Criminal Law: Damien Vandermeersch, Advocate General at the Court of Cassation and Professor at the UCL and in Brussels, Mrs Rozie, Professor in Antwerp. Professor Philip Traest, Yves Liégeois, first Advocate-General in Antwerp, and Ms Beernaert, also Professor, sit on the Committee on Criminal Procedure. That includes Mr Kennes. He is the only lawyer in the committee, in addition to the coordinator of the work of both committees, Mr Raf Verstraeten, extraordinary professor and lawyer. Minister, the relevant passage in the coalition agreement stipulates that a multidisciplinary committee consisting of magistrates, lawyers and academics would work on the basis of guidelines which the government would provide. I have a great deal of respect for those committee members, but when I read the names, I feel that the composition of the committee set out in the coalition agreement has not been fully followed. Only one of the two committees has an attorney, for example. Are the committees multidisciplinary enough? Of course, through the Advocate General, the Public Prosecutor's Office is represented at the Court of Appeal and at the Court of Appeal. Nevertheless, I wonder whether it would not be interesting to look down the stairs in the prosecution's office, particularly at magistrates who are in the first line of qualifications. After all, they must start criminal proceedings and investigations. I have a feeling that the composition is not entirely multidisciplinary in nature as envisaged in the coalition agreement. Why did they deviate from the coalition agreement? Minister, I have another question on the orientation paper. The committees would work on the basis of guidelines that would be provided by the government. Can we get more information on this? After all, I remember that we in the Committee on Justice have always asked when discussing your judicial plan whether Parliament could be involved in any way in the operation of those committees rather than simply playing the voting machine afterwards. I don't find much on orientation except what we already know from the Justice Plan. However, the committees must work with more than what is in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u46	It is true that on 30 October 2015, I signed the Ministerial Decision setting up the Committees for the Reform of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure. It was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 29 December. With that decision, I will not depart from the coalition agreement. The committees are indeed multidisciplinary. The magistrate, the academic world and the lawyer are represented in each of the committees. You rightly state in your question that Mr Vandermeersch is Advocate General at the Court of Cassation and Professor at the Université Catholique de Louvain. Mr Yves Liégeois is First Advocate General and Former Attorney General at the Antwerp Appeals Court. The other members are all professors at the University of Antwerp, Ghent or Leuven, at the Université Catholique de Louvain or at the Université Libre de Bruxelles. Three of the appointed experts are lawyers. For reasons of efficiency, I made the choice to assemble small teams. At the stage when a concrete proposal for reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure is drawn up, actors such as the police, the courts and the incumbent magistrates do not need to be represented in the committees. However, they will be consulted on the basis of specific text proposals and specialized working groups on certain working groups will be set up. For Parliament's consultation, I would like to refer you to my general policy paper which I presented to the Chamber on 10 November 2015, but which was not published in the Belgian Official Journal. Experts have been appointed to draw up a text which should include the basic principles of the reform. This text will be submitted to the Government and Parliament together with a preliminary draft redrafting of Book 1 of the Criminal Code, which contains general principles on crimes and punishment. Book 2 of the same Code, which deals with crimes and penalties in particular, is also rewritten with other experts. A multidisciplinary group of experts is appointed to propose the guidelines for rewriting the Code of Criminal Procedure. These principles are also submitted to the government and to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u47	Minister, I am pleased that the principles will be submitted to the government. But it was agreed in the coalition agreement that the committees should make their preparations on the basis of the government's orientations. Now it seems that we are working in reverse and that the committees are drawing up proposals, and then they are submitting them to the government. That wasn't supposed to happen, was it? I think that Parliament, and certainly you and your cabinet, should set out the lines. I sincerely hope that the Committee on Justice and Parliament can be more involved in this in one way or another and will not only be confronted with ready-made texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u48	Mrs. De Wit, I rarely replicate, but you must read the lyrics. It is difficult to expect us to hold a seminar in the government on how we will define the guidelines. What I am doing is what I say, and I say that in my policy statement to the government and to Parliament, I put forward the guidelines for aval. Then we'll discuss that. I have made it clear to you that this will happen in Parliament. But then you will stop talking about Parliament and start talking about the government, which must make the guidelines itself. I don't follow well, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u49	The coalition agreement says that the direction comes from the government. That's what my question was about. We do indeed have knowledge of a number of guidelines, which are set out in your judicial plan. That justice plan is, for the most part, your justice plan, with all the merits associated with it and on which I will say nothing wrong. I only hope that you will gradually provide sufficient sounding boards, so that it will also be a supported text. I think it is one of the most important projects which I hope will not only start this legislative period, but may also be completed. That's really important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u50	Mr President, Minister, say that there is a refugee crisis in Europe is kicking in an open door. Belgium is trying, at best, to take responsibility for this. In recent weeks, however, we have faced a number of refugees who have different standards and values from our society. I only have to refer to the debate on the facts that took place in Cologne in New Year's Eve. In Belgium, too, there is increasing mention of various crimes, including sexual assaults, rapes and theft. Also in the Belgian asylum centres there would be more and more amok. That's all not so good. Your colleague, Secretary of State Francken, is keen to expel asylum seekers who commit crimes, but the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless said in the newspaper that this is not so obvious. There must be sufficient reason to exclude an asylum seeker from his right to protection. The crime must therefore be serious enough, and this is often subject to interpretation. Besides, there's always got to be a conviction. Until then, everyone is supposed to be innocent. We know that the number of crimes is rising, and in recent days it has really increased. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless says that a conviction is essential when it has to assess whether it is taking away the right to asylum. The Minister of Justice has a positive right of insertion which can ensure that certain cases are investigated and/or prosecuted by the public prosecutor. It may be useful for you to make use of it, so that you can get a conviction if there is a valid reason for doing so. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How many complaints have been received by the Justice Department since August 2015 about criminal offences committed by asylum seekers or refugees? What crimes do these complaints relate to? After all, measuring is always known. How many asylum seekers or refugees have been or have been effectively prosecuted since then? How many convictions have there been? Then what crimes were we talking about? My next question may have to be answered by your colleague, Mr Francken, but I will ask him if so. Since August 2015, how many asylum seekers have been locked up in a closed centre or prison? Do you have any idea how often the Commissioner has already decided to withdraw the right of residence or recognition? How often is an appeal lodged? With what result? Since then, how many asylum seekers or refugees have been sent back to their country following a conviction or withdrawal of the right of residence or recognition? How many times have you used your positive right to insert asylum seekers who have committed a criminal offence since August 2015? What was the result of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u51	Thank you, Mrs De Wit. Allow me to point out that it is not possible, within the short timeframe of an oral question, to provide you with detailed figures on the policy of detection and prosecution. In addition, it is not possible to make a breakdown in the statistical databases of the police, prosecutors or criminal courts according to whether the suspect or offender has received the status of asylum seeker and whether a refugee has applied for asylum. The status of asylum seeker or refugee is not of its own in criminal law, either in the public prosecutor's office or in the courts or in the police. For this reason, no statistics can be kept on any facts they may have committed and their prosecution, or on any convictions. With regard to your question concerning the detention of asylum seekers or refugees in closed centres, I would like to refer you to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Francken, who is responsible for this. As far as the right of positive entry is concerned, I would like to point out that this right is only applied exceptionally. It refers to the power of the Minister of Justice to give positive injunctions to the prosecution. In accordance with Article 364 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the Attorney General may, of his own motion or by order of the Minister of Justice, instruct the Prosecutor of the King to prosecute the offences of which he is aware. To date, no dossiers have been submitted to me which have proved appropriate to give a positive impact, not even on asylum seekers who would have committed criminal offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u52	Of course, Minister, I fully understand what you are saying about the figures. I will try, if necessary, in a different way to obtain certain figures. I understand that you wish to reserve your right to intrude on very specific matters. I fully understand that, but given the facts that are currently being done, it will be difficult to maintain the support for a proper reception of the people who have every right to remain here. It is the responsibility of all of us to work on that. If crime is to happen, then the Justice Department must also act. It should not be used as an administrative procedure for dealing with such matters or on the basis of their refugee status. All actors must participate in this. This will be the only way to deal with the crisis in a good way, so that people can continue to support it. That is obvious, apart from the fact that whoever burns his hole must be on the blisters. That's part of who's committing a crime. As a society, we simply cannot and must not tolerate certain facts. However, we must work together to do this, and Justice has an important role to play in tackling, prosecuting and condemning such matters, so that the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless can continue to do so. Then one is not sent from the cabinet to the wall. I am counting on all actors to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u53	Minister, there are plenty of cafes, but also in other horeca establishments or in stores, gambling machines that work with relatively low bets. These are games of cards, dice, wheels of fortune or games using astrological signs. There would be about 6,000 in our territory. No licence is required for the operation of these so-called 3.3-category gaming machines, which are therefore outside the control of the gambling commission. However, these are games that can quickly become addictive and which, moreover, are likely to be used by minors, since they do not present any identity card reader to control the age of the player. That is why the President of the gambling commission has recently taken a stand in favour of abolishing these game machines in order to protect the players and especially the younger ones. The intention expressed by the President of the Commission in December was to ban these so-called category 3.3 gaming machines from the beginning of this year 2016. I would therefore like to know more about this. Has it been decided to prohibit so-called category 3.3 gaming machines, i.e. machines operating with relatively low bets and for which no licence is required? If so, is this decision already effective? On the basis of what considerations was this decision taken or envisaged? Were other avenues to protect players, and especially minors, from addiction considered? Have the actors in the horeca sector been consulted? Are they seeking such a ban?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u54	Colleagues, machines known as 3.3 by reference to Article 3.3 of the Law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, as amended by the Law of 10 June 2010 can only be regarded as exceptions if they comply with Article 3.4 of that Law. A royal decree determines the conditions of the type of establishment, the type of game, the amount of the bet, the benefit that can be awarded, the average loss per hour. I have urged the secretariat of the gambling committee to draw up a proposal for a regulation on this matter. I have not yet received a satisfactory answer from him. I have just sent him a letter with instructions and a clear request to, among other things, find a solution to the problem posed by these machines. This problem has several dimensions for which I want to get an analysis. Consideration must be given to the impact of maintaining such machines on the player. On the other hand, Horeca Vlanderen pleads for the maintenance of these machines because of economic considerations. This clearly demonstrates the contradictory aspects of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic314x.u55	In view of her absence, Question No 8496 by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet is deleted. The same applies to question No 8529 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
