ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Goeiemorgen allemaal. First of all, I would like to welcome our guests this morning, the representatives of the workers of the Caterpillar company in Gosselies. Welcome to the House of Representatives and thank you for accepting our invitation in a very short time and under circumstances that we imagine very painful and heavy for the workers of the company. I believe that the desire of many colleagues was to hear first of all the representatives of the company. I hear the social partners. The invitation was also addressed to the management of Caterpillar and yesterday afternoon, the company informed us that it did not wish to participate in our work. In any case, I am convinced that the exchange of views we will have and the information you will give us will enrich and feed into the topical debates and parliamentary questions that we can then address to the government. It is certain that the lack of presence of the management of the company is to be deplored because it could also have given us a lot of information and given us some explanations and perspectives. It is a commission of economics and social affairs. I would like to thank my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, who chairs the Social Affairs Committee, for the joint organisation of this committee. I would like to make it clear to colleagues that there will be a full account of this work. Some colleagues have tabled parliamentary questions; they will be the subject of a topical debate this Thursday afternoon in the presence of the Prime Minister and Minister Peeters. As I said, I believe that this morning's exchange of views will enrich the questions of colleagues and all groups will be able to participate. For reasons of agenda, it was not possible to hold this debate this afternoon. I see that some colleagues wish to speak, I assume, on the order of business. I'll give them the floor. I would simply ask that we should not be too long in procedural matters because I believe that, in substance, the exchange of views we have concerning thousands of workers, those of the company, but we must also concern ourselves with the workers of the subcontracting firms. I believe that this exchange of views deserves a dignified and serene debate. However, procedural issues are still possible. I give the floor to Mr. Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u2	Mr President, on behalf of all Members of Parliament, we would like to thank the trade unions for their presence in response to the request made by the PS Group for the holding of this Committee on Economy and Social Affairs and, through their presence, for the dignity of Caterpillar workers faced with this brutal dismissal. We have to see, as you did, the absence of the company's managers. It is not necessarily the presence of Caterpillar's great boss in the United States that is required, but rather that of his spokesman whose announcement of the closure was brutal. Without going directly into procedural matters – and there must be some since the debate that should have taken place in a single day will take place in different hearings of the trade union organisations, followed by exchanges and a mini-debate – we must deplore, through this absence, this contempt of the employer. Ladies and gentlemen, did you get any explanation for this absence in the head of the employer, Caterpillar, when we had legitimate questions to ask him?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u3	Mr President, it is without a doubt that I express my incomprehension, my non-acceptance of the absence of the Caterpillar officials this morning. I thank the workers' representatives for their presence. But I took note of the word you used when you noticed their absence: "The bosses don't want to participate." In the face of the social drama that they themselves have aroused and I weigh my words by saying it, this is a demonstration of cowardice in not wishing to participate in our work. Can you clarify the content of the contact you had with them and tell us whether it was a contact with the Belgian management or other representatives? It is no longer a question of wishing or not wishing but of justifying oneself, of answering questions from Parliament but also of trade unions, representatives of workers. On the other hand, I read in the press – perhaps Mr Massin was referring to it – that legal arguments (the Renault law) would prevent them from being present. I would like to know what article they use to justify their absence from Parliament. Mr President, without going into a debate in depth, it seems to me that the situation is serious enough for you to return to them and to reiterate your request to be present at the committee next Thursday in the presence of the ministers. I ask that you be given a mandate to do so, and that on Thursday they be present. In the meantime, I would like you to clarify the terms used. It is totally inappropriate to arrive here today with a wish, as a response to Parliament's request. It was all the colleagues who also wanted to hear from the employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u4	Mr President, allow me to thank the representatives of the workers' organisations for their presence. Gentlemen, it is important to meet you because you are representatives of those who, for decades, have produced wealth on this site. It is the workers who produce wealth, not capital. It is therefore important to agree on the reality of the company. However, in the order of business, Mr President, I am astonished at this contempt of the representatives of this multinational who do not even deign to come and explain themselves to the representatives of the Nation today. In recent years, the multinational Caterpillar has never shunned lobbying, lobbying all MPs to reduce taxes, and reaching out to legislative bodies. "There is no problem, we are in interaction", but when it comes to explaining ourselves about a social massacre, no one answers the phone. This is really a basic contempt for our democracy. This is alarming: today, economic power, and therefore partly political power, is concentrated on the board of directors of a multinational company and is no longer even present here in Parliament. If this is not a dramatic political lesson from the facts this morning, I do not know what other conclusion we can draw. Mr President, I am bouncing on the words of my colleague Jean-Marc Nollet. The official reason given by management to justify his absence is the Renault procedure. Parliament must take a position on this issue. Without this, no multinationals will come to justify themselves at home. Every time there is restructuring, there will always be a Renault phase. We, the elected representatives of the nation, must demand that the representatives of these multinationals come and explain themselves to us. Today we demand that all the industrial policy we have offered them – building roads, giving subsidies, tax rebates, and for that, it was not a concern for them to be here in parliament – be followed by their presence today. When we have to explain ourselves for a social massacre, no one is present. We must give a majority and opposition signal that we do not accept this contempt for democracy on the part of a multinational. Without this signal, they'll never come to account. And our goal is that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u5	Mr President, gentlemen, at the outset, on behalf of the MR Group, I would like to thank you for your presence and for the explanations you will give us, which will arm our mobilisation in favour of Caterpillar workers and subcontractors. It is about going beyond listening and gathering information that will enable us, as far as possible, to support you. Mr President, it is not conceivable that we should turn our backs on the representatives of the Belgian people in parliament. On behalf of the MR Group, I would ask you to insist that we have the meeting scheduled today with the Caterpillar leadership. We assume that when we plunge a region into such a social, economic and human tragedy, we must assume a minimum. They don't take care of it. They defy themselves, they snob the parliament. It's disdain. This is unacceptable. Others, in the past, have come to explain themselves in similar situations. It will be a matter of hearing the representatives of Caterpillar in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presence today. Listening to you and working with you means supporting all these families in Caterpillar and subcontractors who are directly and strongly affected by this social tragedy. The challenge is also to work with the different governments, but we will come back to it in the debate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is there any surprise at the absence of Caterpillar's bosses? I wasn't surprised. This is a reflection of their attitude since the beginning of this file. Gentlemen, you who are here on behalf of all the workers, it is essential that you have an interlocutor who can make commitments and with whom it is possible to work on alternatives. The absence of Caterpillar's leadership does not surprise me at all. Its members invoke the Renault law. Indeed, this law exists. But management could at least have explained the economic relationship, since they are obliged to do so. We can insist, it is respect for democracy. For them, from the United States, Belgium represents only a small point on the map and they make little cost to the reality of workers and their families. Mr President, the priority is to be in action, to work with workers' representatives. Finally, as far as Caterpillar's management is concerned, the workers and the government must have an interlocutor who can make decisions that engage the American leadership.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u7	Mr President, on behalf of myself and my party, the sp.a, I wish in the first place all the victims of the closure very much strength and courage. Workers will now find themselves in a period of great uncertainty. The last thing these workers expect is a back and forth cradle from their employer, who has very cowardlyly announced the closure of the factory. The method used by this multinational is not new. Often a director is appointed who has nothing to say on the spot and does not really have a role in the decisions taken. The decisions are taken above their heads. In the end, the multinational is hiding behind legislation, in particular the Renault Act. I have always understood that the Renault Act means that the first round is a round of consultation, of searching for alternatives and of looking for a possible way to leave the factory or leave some of it open. That was, of course, the intention of the first round of the Renault Act. Now that argument is being used, not to talk and not to look for solutions. That's really unheard of. If it is difficult for the employer to do so in a public meeting, this may be done for me in a closed meeting. Mr President, I do, however, support the question put by the other Members, namely that the Executive Board should at least explain how it took the decision in question and whether there is another possibility of seeking an alternative solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u8	Do other colleagues wish to speak? I would point out that this is a co-chair, since two committees are meeting here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to say that on 2 September, following the announcement by Caterpillar, Mr Delizée and myself immediately took the initiative to organise this joint committee as quickly as possible. We have asked both the government and the social partners, the trade unions and the employer, in all honesty, to appear here. To this end, we have established a communication with the management of Caterpillar Gosselies. I summarize the most important passages of the answer we received. "Unfortunately, at this stage, we must decline this invitation," zegt de directie. Zij vervolgt: "Information and consultation on the announcement of the intention of the Caterpillar Group must, in accordance with the legal provisions, be held with and within our works council". That was the management's answer. After the speeches of all my fellow Members here today, I conclude that, as a joint committee, we will ask the Executive Board again to come here. If necessary, then we shall meet behind closed doors, as Mr Kitir suggested. We will say that the arrival is requested unanimously. If the management continues to refuse, it must refer to the articles on the basis of which it says that it cannot appear here. It seems strange to me that the board couldn't do that. Here the conditions can be created to hear it fully in accordance with the Renault Act. This has already been demonstrated in the past. In short, it is the firm will of the committee and of the committee chairmen to make the management appear here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u10	I would like to say two more things before I hear some of the rebuttals. I note that we unanimously deplore the absence of the company's representatives and that we all demand a future meeting - whether on Thursday, Friday or another day. It's a matter of timing. My colleague and I, together with the Speaker of the House, will again insist that an exchange be organized. Then, with regard to the Renault law, the Chamber has an excellent legal service. I have therefore asked the President for a legal analysis of the law in order to answer the questions that have been asked. In this way, we will see on the basis of which articles an absence from this committee can be justified. I hope that we will have a detailed analysis on Thursday. We can continue the debate, but the original objective was to give the floor to the workers' representatives. Requests for reply were made by Messrs. Massin and Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u11	Mr President, this is not a request for a reply. Thank you, Presidents, for telling us why Caterpillar declined our invitation. Not that they refuse to be present today, but they simply decline it. Let us therefore demand their presence here. We will then see if other means are to be used, for example through government intervention. Several questions arise. So, which interlocutor can we have in front of us? In other words, who is piloting the aircraft in the negotiations and who is responsible for refusing an invitation from Parliament? The only thing I want to know is: by whom was this letter signed? Was it done by the Belgian leadership? In this way, we will be able to clarify the identity of our potential interlocutors. This seems to me to be relatively important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u12	Mr President, I think that the intention should indeed be to give workers' representatives maximum time to explain their story, which I believe is even more important today than our statements. I would like to ask you two questions. First of all, I would ask you to share the letter from the Executive Board with Parliament. Such a grotesque statement, which rightly has a great deal of anger here, deserves all the openness. It can only help to increase Parliament's pressure on management. Secondly, I would like to stress that this discussion is particularly important for the many affected workers of Caterpillar but also for the future. I therefore welcome the suggestion of the legal note. It seems to me to be a good thing that the services are looking into this. In my opinion, according to the Renault Act, there is no element that cannot be passed here; none. I do not, therefore, allow people to hide behind a law that came after a similar social tragedy, by being absent here today. I do not think that any element is in favour of a sitting behind closed doors. Caterpillar was a party to distribute dividends, to deliver a good news show and to tell us what had to be done in this country. If there is no legal element, and that seems to me to be the case, then the management must come to a public meeting in the shortest possible time to answer to Parliament and to employees. On that last point, I insist. Furthermore, I am happy to listen to the story, because it deserves all the attention, including from the government. I would have liked the representatives of the government to be present today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u13	We'll have Caterpillar's answer distributed. We will draft the legal note as soon as possible in order to provide them with our answers. This note will also be distributed to colleagues in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u14	The e-mail was signed by Mr. Jerome Bandry, EU Government Affairs Director. That's the title of the person who answers us. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the presence of our guests who represent the three organisations representing workers. I greet Mr Antonio Cocciolo, President Hainaut-Namur des Métallos de la FGTB and President of the FGTB de Charleroi, Mr Jean-Marie Hoslet, Secretary of the ACV-CSC Metea Hainaut and Mr Christian Bougard, Deputy Regional Secretary of the Walloon Region of the CGSLB. I welcome you and thank you for your presence. We want to hear you one after the other for ten to fifteen minutes. Then we will have an exchange of views with the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u15	Hello, I think the principle of this day is that the trade union organisations representing the workers of the company can enlighten you on the situation of Caterpillar, in any case on the announcement of the closure of the Gosselies site. First of all, on behalf of the workers in Caterpillar, I thank you for convening this committee. It is true that we are the representatives of the workers but you are also the representatives of the workers because they are part of the population and you have the duty and responsibility to protect all the workers and the population of this country. Thank you, anyway, for listening to us. Why is management not present? For 48 hours, we've been asking ourselves the same questions, and we've had a lot of problems with the rest of the negotiations. For 24 hours, we've been looking for an interlocutor to start discussions. In addition to this, there is the whole problem of the company's site. It is not a small SME, it is 98 hectares of surface area, 18 kilometers of fence; a company of this dimension does not let itself be abandoned, it is absolutely necessary to protect this company, protect the material produced and protect especially the machines and the investment of 150 million euros made in 2013. Dear politicians, dear comrades, dear friends, all this work is being done by the workers of the company. At yesterday's and today's assemblies, the trade union delegations asked the workers to be responsible, not to be worthy because dignity may mean something else – it may be used too easily; I consider that dignity is also for everyone to have a proper job and purchasing power. That's true dignity. Today, it feels like it's not quite that. The tool's protection work, the safety work, the work of protecting the work tool and everything around it: today it is the workers of the company who are doing it. This is scandalous, because it is the responsibility of the employers, the multinational to do everything possible to physically protect the workers of their company. You may be surprised, but we've known them for 35 years and we know what they're capable of when they're in panic. On behalf of the workers I represent, I would like to show the importance of the political role. Either we're together, or we'll all lose. We're in a situation where business negotiations may start tomorrow or after tomorrow – and we'll see who they are with. Secondly, on the organization and policy side, we will have to think about how to create stable jobs in this country, jobs that allow several generations to work, produce, and give the population the opportunity to be in a country where it is good to live. I have concerns about that today. Attention has been drawn several times at all political levels in this country. What I am going to say is not cynical, but the situation in Caterpillar may be a psychological shock that will allow some to reflect on the future of companies in this country and on the responsibility of politics and trade union organisations for future generations. On 2 September, Caterpillar decided to close the Gosselies site. But this is not just a restructuring involving Charleroi, Wallonia or Belgium. It is a European restructuring. At the same time, Iceland is announcing the closure of one in three companies – which affects more than 300 workers – and a restructuring plan, with key bonuses, is being imposed in England. Although Grenoble will receive part of Gosselies' production, a restructuring plan is also required. It is therefore necessary to reflect on the whole of European industry. This is not just about the survival of our region's industry. The workers are worried. On all these questions, they are waiting for answers. But I repeat, future solutions will depend on the ability of everyone to review their copy of the vision of this country's economy. Am I not going to use the file to make ideology? But the observation is that the method does not work. In Gosselies, in 2013, when they announced the restructuring, I really had fears. I thought, "If we don't find an agreement with the multinational in 2013, it's the total closure." The trade unions, all in all – and my friend Hoslet participated with me in the negotiations – have done everything possible to satisfy the multinational: additional flexibility, a new organization of work, we negotiated pre-pensions and 1,400 people left the company, we accepted things in flexibility that, even I, as a trade union organization, am ashamed to explain to you. They had tax facilities, with engineering between Switzerland and Belgium to be able to impose their products in Switzerland and not in our country. They have had for years reductions in social contributions. We are not opposed to this if it is negotiated and if we guarantee employment in our region. This is all part of the discussion. They got it all! Even today, in the letter of dismissal they sent to the staff, which you are probably going to have in the next few days, they tell us: "I am sorry gentlemen Carolos, gentlemen Walloons, gentlemen Belgians, you have achieved all the objectives you had been asked for, even beyond, but, unfortunately, the multinational is what it is and as part of the redistribution of dividends to its shareholders, it will be necessary to undermine and it is you who are paying". When you talk about the slogan that it's a stock market lay-off, prove to me that it's the opposite or that it's something else. Show me the proof! This company is a jewel! I invite you to visit it, to see the investment of the 150 million we made, which the trade union organisations demanded in 2013. Go check it out! It's worthy of NASA! We feel like we're in a factory of the future. There was a little lack of volume, but "shit", the situation, we manage them! With all the skills we can have at the regional or federal level, there is a way to manage this situation. They come to tell us that the company is too big. But "shit", even that, there is the possibility of selling a part or giving in to the Region or something else to be able to highlight other investments! I do not want to give in to emotion, but it is often said that the United States adopts the same behaviour in the management of its businesses as in the war in the Middle East. This imperialist attitude is unacceptable! It flouts democracy and freedom! To refuse to meet with this committee is to say: "I am above the states; I do what I want". I invite you to read Caterpillar's International Code of Conduct, which is clear: "Where you are forced to believe, pretend to believe, but where you are not forced, break politics and trade union organisations". There are cases in Canada where no procedures have been initiated: companies have been closed overnight by means of a lock-out. You know exactly what that means. You like me don't have to let this kind of thing happen. Let us negotiate at sectoral level, but we will need you for subsidies and in case of possible conversion. I also ask you, who are political leaders and represent the people of this country, to reflect. Let's not let these multinationals do it! I did not say that they should not be welcomed, but I ask that they respect the rules of our country and of our continent. Europe has gone through two world wars. It is not to accept such behaviour. Democracy and freedom are as important issues as the economic, industrial and financial aspects. Thank you for listening and are ready to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Cocciolo, for your testimony and your comments. Mr Hoslet, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey to you a huge thank you from the workers for having us in session. I don't have the ability to be as loquacious as my colleague and get as carried away. I have therefore prepared a text to read to you in order to be as concise as possible and as consistent with all the workers and representatives of Caterpillar. I would just like to say a word to you before I read you this text. You need to understand the context within Caterpillar. When you were going home to Caterpillar, you had to feel so good that you didn't have to feel the need to unionize anymore, you had to ignore everything. Within Caterpillar, there are Bancontacts. You knew how to live at Caterpillar. There's a store that almost forced you to shop at Caterpillar. When you worked well, you could eventually receive a free pair of socks from Caterpillar. You could dress your feet to the head in yellow and black. And it's just if you weren't asked to pee in yellow and black. In addition to the boutade, you must know that today we are asked to work until April. Caterpillar's computer science has been relocated to Holland, on purpose not for us to sabotage the work. How do you want to work in such contexts, where, from the start, even before negotiating, a guarding reinforcement is brought, so that it does not go wrong? In 2013, Mr Cocciolo and I, to negotiate, we knew a quarter of an hour in advance where it was going, and we were searched by armed guards. This is the context we experienced in 2013. But in 2013, despite all these difficulties, we knew that there was hope, that the company would restart. We have therefore put aside our pride and pride in the interests of the workers. Today, unfortunately, the majority of workers over 52 and a half have gone to the RCC. At the time, we had the solution of the pre-board we call RCC. At present, this is no longer the case. The tragedy is 2,200 workers without any potential net. I'll come back later. Mr. Cocciolo has already mentioned this. Please do not let this land, which for Charleroi is one of the redeployment solutions, escape! Next to the airport, the Aeropole, do not let an economic canker grow! Don't leave Charleroi North like we're leaving Charleroi South, talking about Carsid more precisely! I'm gonna try not to get overwhelmed by emotions. This is not always easy. My gsm rings every two minutes. When I'm answering, others call me. The tension is very high within the company. I will therefore read this text because, when we are in the gallery, we always want to say the essentials, when we sometimes miss what we should say. In 2013, workers in Caterpillar experienced a social earthquake: a total of 1,665 job losses, or 45% of the workforce, not to mention the many subcontractors. The toughest situations to defend will be those of subcontractors. Since September 2 at 8:50 a.m., the workers of Caterpillar have lived not an earthquake but the apocalypse: there is nothing more after the closure of their business, the loss of their job but also the loss of their identity since they lived only by Caterpillar. 2,155 people are directly concerned to whom must be added the co-contractors (to which they have been suggested to be part of Caterpillar but they are never just prey for the cat), the sub-contractors, whether they are producers of active components in maintenance, the often forgotten logistics estimated at more than 400 people involved in the closure of Caterpillar, or even more widely the services, which today represents 7,000 jobs, i.e. almost 7,000 families, because in Caterpillar, couples have formed, couples that find themselves without anything at all. We talked about everything, about indignation, despondency, brutality, earthquake, abject behaviour, but it seems to me that the French language lacks words to express what people felt when Caterpillar closed. We're really revolted. Sometimes it is very difficult not to show it, not to feel the warm blood that comes up to our head. When you went home to Caterpillar, I told you, it was a family. You had to feel good and willing to give up on trade unions and politics, on everything. You were supposed to drink and eat Caterpillar. On behalf of the CSC and its relevant professional centres, I would like to express our support above all to Caterpillar workers and their families as well as to subcontractors. The CSC stands by the workers in their struggle to save their jobs and assert their rights. Beyond all the emotions that we naturally feel, we must keep our dignity and our composure. Let us not confuse, as Mr Cocciolo said earlier, cold blood and weakness! [[It is not because we remain worthy that we do not have rage in our stomachs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your invitation to analyse all the consequences and, above all, to learn the lessons of this closure. We'd rather have seen you before September 2nd. Hasn't there been enough closures, business restructuring? We forget it too often, whether they are multinationals or not. Remember Renault Vilvorde, Opel Antwerp, Duferco, Ford Genk, Bekaert, Arcelormittal Liège, and not so long ago, Doosan, where we received a fax from Korea. Within fifteen days, the company was closed. Fifteen days! A multinational who puts the key under the doormat. All right. It's better to be too late than ever. I say 'too' late than ever. What lessons should we learn from all this? Let us not make a small peripheral law to improve the Renault law. Let's make sure we never end up in this situation again. You are very nice to see, especially in the photos at the time of the elections but I prefer not to see you and make sure that we can live in peace and make our region of Charleroi fruitful, which is in great need of it. In terms of the comments made at the 25 August works council, to talk about cynicism, the workers received answers to their economic and financial questions and there was nothing to predict the announcement of the closure eight days later. In particular, management presented sales forecasts, a growing European market. Last May, the management had already submitted them with very reassuring financial indicators with, in particular, a correct profitability despite the transfers made to the sister company under Swiss law for which it carries out the services. What about the group, which, despite declining turnover, continues to increase dividends to shareholders! Second observation: let us go straight to the point and go back to one of the components of competitiveness mentioned: the wage cost. Is that the determining factor? No, management says it itself. It is not the cost of wages, it is simply a global overcapacity. We needed a prey for the cat. What have we done? We cut Caterpillar Gosselies to try to fill in the order books of the other entities. The management tells us from the start: "we will not earn a franc to put the work of Gosseries in Grenoble". That's not the point of the game. It's filling the workshops. So that's not even a financial reason, it's just saturating the tools that are elsewhere. From Charleroi, when you look at Caterpillar, it looks huge, huge. Seen from the United States, Caterpillar Gosselies, that's 2%. So, for them, when they talk to us, we're ultra-minoritarian. When we live in Charleroi, when we look at Caterpillar, it's our heart, our economic lung. We have two totally different visions. Management admits that the decision is the result of overcapacity, neither more nor less. Let's talk about reductions in employer contributions, tax shift, designed to make us more competitive than our neighbours; in your opinion, are our French neighbours really more competitive and making more donations to the multinational? Another observation: Caterpillar Belgium has paid 22 million taxes over the last five years on a cumulative gross income of EUR 93 million. This amounts to a tax rate of 24%. Caterpillar Group Service, which is a subsidiary of Caterpillar Gosselies, paid 6% tax at the level of the financial group. In particular, both entities have benefited from notional interests – what you know. Do you really believe that attractive taxation has made it possible to perpetuate Gosselies? We see today that we don't. How many things will we have to do, how many times will we have to undress to ensure that the multinationals remain in Belgium? What else do we have to give? Beyond the group's financial considerations, which announced in September 2015 to seek to reduce its operational costs by $1.5 billion per year, one of the main reasons for the closure was to seek strategic directions. Let us not forget that Gosselies, before 2013, worked for the whole of Africa and the Middle East. One of the choices made by Mr Polutnik has now been to work exclusively for Europe. First mistake. The second mistake was to turn to equipment, while meeting all environmental standards, but to standards (Tier 4) that are approved by only five countries. There was only one giant machine sold to Gosselies in an area where there were no more public works in prospect, with the exception of Turkey, which was to knock at the door of Europe and which found other ways to make itself attractive to enter Europe. However, there have been two strategic mistakes: the periphery of the European market and the production of the biggest, most expensive machine, where environmental standards are not made mandatory. I would have dreamed that the 28 Member States would sign environmental standards so that we could sell this machine. Had we had this courage, we would have been the first to do clean machines and would have faced the difficulty of doubling Caterpillar on the site. So, another problem: standards don't go fast enough. I am speaking to all the policies, of which I do not exclude myself: if there are standards, let us start together because otherwise those who respect them least will have the work of tomorrow. I'm not going to continue the note to the end, but if there are lessons to see and things to do is: this land, let's not let it go, we don't let it down, this land. Workers, even if there's a chance in a million, let's do everything to try to keep a manufacturing line. If not, let's do everything we can to attract an investor. Then, as I told you earlier, fifty-two and a half years ago, it is no longer possible today. Let us make sure that we find a social net for workers who, unfortunately, if we stick to today's law, will no longer be able to benefit from a pre-pension, an RCC as it is now called. We should also not be afraid to empower training centres such as Techocampus, such as the Advanced Technology Centre, to ensure that workers who lose their jobs have the ability to train for other opportunities for them. Our workers in Caterpillar have a wealth in hand, have the ability to bounce. But today, and I do not like this word but we are forced to do so, they must mourn first of all the departure of their work, their identity and be reborn otherwise, I hope with your support, and ensure that there is hope, a life for the other days to come at work. I have often heard from you – and it is clear that everyone is going to do so – that today we are going to create a sacred union. I invite you to go on a crusade for the employment of Belgians, your workers and for all the families of Charleroi. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hoslet, for your intervention. I invite Mr Christian Bougard to speak in turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for welcoming us to this House to listen to us and listen, through our remarks, to the problem that is being encountered today by some 7,000 workers in the Charleroi region. I am not going to repeat everything my colleagues have already said. You know what happened this 2nd of September. The terms relating to this decision of the Caterpillar company (brutality, cruelty, cynicism, contempt), you said them yourself and they were said by my colleagues too. I'm just going to say that we warned – and when I say "we," it's the workers' representatives – the management we were a little worried about following the 2013 restructuring. As my CSC colleague mentioned, focusing all of Caterpillar's productivity on the European market was a concern for the workers, on the one hand, because the site had become too large in view of what was being produced and, on the other, because of the crisis that we are going through. Moreover, you know that the time in Belgium, but also elsewhere, is not necessarily for major public works campaigns, which obviously use these kinds of products. We were told that these were ideas, chimeras, "trade union negativism". Today, proof is, we're in the middle of it. The 2013 restructuring was not the first, but is important. As my colleagues have said, everything that has been done to maintain activity and employment should be highlighted. Management had set rather demanding objectives as a result of this restructuring. It must be noted that they have been reached and even exceeded. Now you know the reward... Of course, we need to look at all the tracks that can maintain Caterpillar activity on the Gosselies site. We know, of course, that the decision belongs to the corporation and that it will be – let us be honest and look in our eyes – very difficult to remedy. However, Gosselies offers advantages: staff quality and versatility, flexibility, geographical location in the heart of Europe, many communication routes, proximity to the airport. That is a whole series of criteria that must be taken into account. It is in phase 1 of the Renault law that we will discuss these issues with the management, if we obviously have an interlocutor worthy of this name – in other words, someone who is able to make decisions; not someone who simply executes the orders given by another. We are waiting for the company to listen carefully to this. Of course, you may also have the opportunity to insist and put pressure on this direction. Secondly, we need to think about the conversion of the site, outside core business. The facilities are modern, well equipped, and can easily accommodate a few industrial investors, whether they belong to the civil engineering sector or not. The buildings can be operated by the logistics and distribution sector. Here again, the location of the site is an undeniable asset. Most of these trades that result from the activities I have just mentioned can be carried out with the company's current staff. Let's not be naive. A social component for these 7,000 workers is likely to need to be considered. From the outset, and we are talking about it very clearly, it will be the spearhead of the 2,200 workers in Caterpillar; at the outset, what we are asking is that we should not forget the subcontractors, the co-contractors, all those who, in one way or another, work by Caterpillar, and with Caterpillar. Of course, who is going to pay for the social component? Employers of these enterprises, medium-level SMEs, etc. may not have the opportunity to have the resources available. Here, I think that it will be necessary to put pressure on management to assume its societal responsibility for this decision. 2013 was an important restructuring, it was said. It has been mentioned - as my two colleagues have mentioned - that there is a pre-pension, that there is an RCC, as it is now said, at 52 and a half years of age. It should be noted that this pre-pension at 52 and a half years in 2013, for those aged in 2012, was mandatory. So today, if we take the 2,200 workers in Caterpillar, given the evolution of the RCC legislation - which those who want not to spend too much money on social security are reassured - there will not be much RCC, since those who were 52 years old in 2012 and who did not leave in the first part of pre-pension at the time, are just 55 years old; but there are no masses of them. Even if the legislative framework is now set, the policies you are can eventually take emergency measures that reduce the age of the CCB for these workers. It's important. You know the mechanisms of pre-pension which will make it easier to "recover" in a professional environment with the maintenance of the compensation paid by Caterpillar. It's a first request. The second concerns the social accompaniment component to be negotiated. We ask that the social aspect also apply to workers who are co-contractors or sub-contractors. The legal provisions provide for, for example, a dependent outplacement of the worker when there is 26 weeks' notice. In such a situation, we consider it unacceptable to charge the worker for his outplacement. Conversion cells will be set up. It's important. After the scheduled dismissal from April 2017, workers will find themselves in these cells and benefit from a restructuring card. It offers reductions in social contributions for the future employer. If a business is closed, these cards are valid for six months. Policies should ensure that this period is extended. In a basin like Charleroi, it will be very difficult to store 7,000 people. However, the recovery of employment must be encouraged. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Bougard, for your intervention. Now is the time for the exchange of views. Who asks for the floor in the discussion? I see MM. Chastel, Massin, Nollet, Hedebouw, mevrouw Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u21	Mr President, trade union gentlemen, we have just been informed by other colleagues that we regret that the management is not here. I would also like to make this explicit on behalf of the N-VA Group. I regret that the management is not here because it is she who has taken this decision and has expressed the intention to close it. I think they should have been here. I hope that the letter, which we will send on behalf of this committee, will enable us to ensure their presence. I would also like to say on behalf of our group that this is a blow to the faces of the families of those thousands of workers. I would also like to stress that I do not understand the decision if I look at the annual reports. If I look at the annual reports objectively and soberly, I do not understand. Caterpillar's decision is therefore, as far as I am concerned, a decision of rudeness. The reports show very clearly that profits have been made. In the last year, the profits may be a little smaller, but the company continues to make profits. Here in Belgium different tax deductions have been used. I am thinking, among other things, of the notional interest deduction. The European Coordination Centre of the Caterpillar Group Services has paid only EUR 190 000 taxes on a profit of EUR 4 million through various tax techniques. I therefore believe that this is a decision of shamelessness and of a lack of respect for all workers who have given everything of their own. In this case, neither the workers nor the trade unions are to blame. As far as flexibility is concerned, you have gone rather far. Chapeau that this can be done! That the culture of the company is such that by pushing a button in America a company in Wallonia can be shut down, I think Caterpillar has shamelessly used all kinds of fiscal favors. In 2015, for example, dividends were paid at a time when these dividends were very high. With all the elements at our disposal today and on the basis of the annual reports, I think I can say that this decision is a decision of rudeness. Now what? That is the question that should concern us today and also the trade unions. I have heard from the trade unions that Caterpillar is not interested in Europe as a market. There may be a great deal of truth in that. Now we have to find solutions. I have heard from Walloon colleagues that we may need to look for a buyer. That must indeed be one of the biggest searches, checking if anyone is interested in a takeover. Perhaps we should also look at innovation and development. At Caterpillar we talk about investing in innovation and development. Perhaps we should also take a look at our fellow Members in Limburg and the SALK plan. I know Wallonia has a Marshall Plan, but specifically for this dossier it may be useful to consult with fellow trade unions in Limburg. After all, the SALK plan for Ford Genk is paying off, in the sense that a lot of Ford workers are getting back to work at the moment. The first concern is to ensure that the workers have a job back as soon as possible, once the decision to close has been finally taken. Now it is the intention to do so. I have a lot of questions for the board, but I will not ask them to the gentlemen of the union, because that makes no sense. Here's what I'm wondering. In September 2015, a year ago, Caterpillar issued a press release stating that they want to make the company healthier here and there. From the headquarters in the US, Caterpillar announced a number of redundancies. In Belgium, on the basis of that press release, did anyone ask where these redundancies would take place? This question is addressed to the management, but perhaps also to the representatives of the trade unions in the works council. Were there any questions about that press release that was sent in 2015? I do not know if you know the answer to the second question, but is the announcement of closure only about Caterpillar Belgium or is it also true for the other companies, namely the logistics centre in Grimbergen and the coordination centre? Did anyone say anything about that? Or is it going to be preserved and only the factory closed? Thirdly, a thorough study has been carried out over the past year at the headquarters in the United States. It is said that, on the basis of this study, it was decided to close the factory in Wallonia. Are there any criteria from that study, which have been decisive in choosing this company specifically, despite the fact that all the figures, all of which indicate that this is a very healthy business? Are there any criteria? After all, I wonder if we can do anything, or if the federal government can do anything, because I read in the annual report that about EUR 66 is paid per hour worked. Is there any reference in that study to that? What criteria are we talking about? Or is it simply the blind button that has been pressed in the United States to reach this decision? Mr President, the other questions are for the Executive Board. She made that decision, and I would find it somewhat amusing to have to ask those questions to the gentlemen of the union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u22	Let us hope, Mrs Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, you have seen Mr. Bandry's e-mail. He is a lobbyist, he will not be your interlocutor when it comes to discussing or negotiating. I think you're still going to be in the dark for a number of days, and that seems clear to me. This shows the contempt that the company has not only vis-à-vis you but vis-à-vis the whole of the people who are here in the room. He is a lobbyist, a lawyer or a lawyer who is dismissed from law, and he is in charge of official relations, a point on the line. This is not the kind of person, ladies and gentlemen, that it is desirable to have here in Parliament...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u24	It was the management that was invited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u25	It is management, and I would like, when you send the mail at the request of the commission, to the management, the operational or the financial, the financier who came in private jet with bodyguards, Mr. Thompson. Let him come! It is he who we want to meet and not a businessman who is there to lobby the European governments, the European Commission, and the Belgian Parliament. Having said that, workers' representatives, ladies and gentlemen, it was said earlier that workers had to grieve in order to be able to move forward and have a future. I think everyone needs to mourn what happened on Friday. One of my colleagues said it was a black Friday for the Charleroi region. I think this is a pure and simple assassination that we witnessed on Friday. An assassination with enormous contempt and cynicism. It is not just the murder of a region, a carolo assassination, it would be too easy, it is a murder of a much wider region. There are subcontractors in Namur, there are collaborators in Brussels, there is Caterpillar in Flanders. And it is to the port of Antwerp that the machines are transported by Belgian companies to be loaded to Europe, Africa and the Middle East. This is a real assassination that we are witnessing. It is not enough to think about the fact that the efforts required by all these companies in terms of taxation or reduction of social contributions have been financed by all Belgians. All those who pay taxes in Belgium have contributed. It is brutally and with the most absolute cynicism that this large group – large by size, but not by behavior – decided this closure in contempt of Belgium, the Walloon Region and Charleroi. We all woke up groggy, in the center, north and south of the country. Probably some more than others. As you have said, in Charleroi, everyone knows someone who has worked in Caterpillar, whether as a white or blue collar, either in subcontractors or among collaborators. Everyone knows or has known someone who, at some point, has worked or is still working for Caterpillar, whether he is a family member, a friend or even a neighbour. We're all concerned. At the risk of appearing emphatic, I would say that we feel it in our flesh. You explained it to us earlier. This is what all the workers concerned are feeling today. Thank you for coming and saying it with great dignity. I know that anger rumbles in you. I will ask you a few questions about this, because things have to be said. You're holding back your anger. You said that, tomorrow, the workers should go ahead and not break the social tool. I think we have nothing to fear, because I know your sense of responsibility, which I want to greet here. Still, things have to be said, but you haven't talked enough about it. But it's very important. How is it possible that 2,200 jobs will be removed from a feather trait? You are right to mention the subcontractors: 7 000 jobs that will be threatened tomorrow or are already in the phase of economic unemployment. We talked about it yesterday at the Charleroi communal council. Companies are already talking about this today and they will also have to be answered. We know this is a social tragedy. You are right to say that this is intolerable and unacceptable. This is further confirmed in the behaviour we are facing today. You can see that if the role of a trade union delegate is not easy, the role of a parliamentarian is not necessarily easy either! This is all the more intolerable when we remember the Charleroi site in 2013 and its restructuring: 1,300 people lost their jobs. Some may have benefited from the CCR. What about tomorrow? It is also intolerable – and you have not mentioned it – because promises have been made by Mr Polutnik, carolo in addition, to the carolo vigour forces (the social partners and the policies of the entire Charleroi region) and to the whole population, since compensation has been requested from the world of work and the State through sustainability. In addition, there are management errors that have been made. That's one of the reasons we wanted to meet them. This is intolerable because of the support provided by the public authorities, and therefore by the population, especially since the cherries on the cake, we know that the Caterpillar group generated 500 million profits and that the Caterpillar production company in Charleroi is a beneficiary and pays taxes! We are not faced with a company in economic difficulty or with a company undergoing restructuring, but with a company that produces profits and whose productivity and productivity gains are in good financial health. The question would therefore be the applicability of certain laws in that regard. We know that you have made efforts. We know that the workers have made enormous, considerable efforts. They really paid for them. You talked about flexibility, loss of recovery days, loss of pay, etc. I deeply respect dignity, but I told you, there are times when we need to talk. We need to shed some light on these efforts that you have made, on the efforts that all the workers in Caterpillar have made, because we have lessons to learn in this area. Yet all these efforts were brutally thrown into the nettles. It is a blind decision, but it is not so blind: it is the current financialization of society. These are the drifts of economic liberalism, of the market economy. It is the abandonment of the role of the State when it comes to regulating. This is not the first time we have talked about it. You are right to point out that this is not just a carolo problem, a Walloon problem, that it is a tragedy in the head of each of the workers. Not so long ago other similar situations occurred: in Ford Genk, with 3,500 jobs abolished, in Opel Antwerp. These are not sites in Charleroi, Wallonia. Even if we have our share with Duferco and ArcelorMittal and even Axa, which will cover the entire territory. We cannot continue in this direction, to answer your question. We cannot make this race to the stallion, which means that, systematically, we say yes or no to certain principles of economic liberalism. We must work together, all parties together; this is the sacred union you are calling for in order to put in place effective solutions. I thought I heard him say it. I would like you to repeat it to me or to contradict me: what about this flexibility? That's why we need your experience. We are always told the following sentences: "More flexibility, even more flexibility! Reduce wages, social charges, social security contributions, social security financing, it costs too much!" We heard it again in the mouth of a business owner. Your organizations have been in corporate council, know the company's figures, can tell us if these efforts have been successful. The decision to close the company clearly shows that this is not the case. But I'd like you to say it, too, if you have to say it. Of course, I do not command you as part of your words. But on the other hand, if these efforts have been successful, what economic results have they been? You've seen it in the numbers transmitted by the company. Tell us! This money that the workers put on the table in flexibility, in the wage reduction, in the reduction of social security contributions, where did it go? Has this contributed, among other things, to the creation of the company's profit? If that is the case, we will take the consequences. The financial director, Mr Thomson, who came in private jet, said it himself: it was to guarantee the dividends of the shareholders. Since we have to take it somewhere, we take the money in a pocket, that of the workers or of all the Belgians, to give it to the American shareholders. Is that what we want? I hope everyone will speak out saying no. We must act on two levels: on the one hand, to deal with the current situation and, on the other, to prevent future situations. I recognise your role as a trade union organisation when you say you no longer want to know such situations, think about intergenerational solidarity, the solidarity of the world of work. If we are victims – the Caterpillar worker is by no means guilty; like the Genk worker, he is a victim – tomorrow, there may be others. We would like things to change for the future. The current problem needs to be resolved, the problem of the future needs to be resolved. We have to act at the Walloon level. You have talked about the conversion cells; we can also talk about the conditionality of employment aid. But at the federal level, there is certainly something to be done, or even something to be done at European level. The federal government can also be concerned about what is happening at European level, since our ministers are attending the European Council of Ministers, working meetings, informal meetings, and can come and explain how things are going. I remember asking Minister Peeters about the fate of one of the ArcelorMittal plants still present in Charleroi, Aperam, which was in great danger because of the local manufacturing in China. Minister Peeters has acted on a European scale with some of his counterparts to "re-establish" tax and compensation tools, simply because China does not meet social standards or environmental standards. In this case, we cannot claim that we have our hands cut off and that we are unable to act. Europe must change course. We know that. Beyond the solidarity in Belgium, European solidarity is needed, not just within the European Trade Union Confederation. All the democratic forces of the European Parliament must ask the Commission to change course, whether in terms of social or fiscal dumping. Europe must be united in this regard. You talked about some sort of offshoring. Some workers find it normal to relocate from Charleroi to Grenoble. Of course, the factory is smaller, but in terms of social protection collective redundancies are much more difficult in France than at home. So, if the Grenoble site were to be closed in order to repatriate everything to Belgium, it would cost much more to Caterpillar. Can you enlighten us on this point? You see that tax competition exists between Member States. That is why Europe must change course in this area. The Prime Minister spoke of a multi-billion-dollar strategic investment plan. At the European level, we are talking about tens or even hundreds of billions to invest in reindustrialization projects. That said, changes must also be decided at home – and very quickly. The Renault law benefits Caterpillar workers. However, as you have raised yourself, it does not benefit subcontractors. The latter are therefore not protected in the same way as Caterpillar workers. I do not want to oppose each other. I know the solidarity that binds you. However, the financial situation of subcontractors must be resolved as quickly as possible. You suggested a few leads. I believe that tomorrow we must voluntarily say that we are applying the same social aspect as Caterpillar, including possible exceptions in the area of CCR. What action is being taken today? The emergency, she's here. Besides, I'd like to hear your opinion. What do you mean by'subcontractors'? What percentage of turnover do you think this represents? 10, 50, 75, 95%? I have my own idea, but as long as you're here, it would be good if you had an opportunity to speak on this. But here's the deal. There are people who are now experiencing economic unemployment, who will eventually be laid off. What measures could be taken? At the time of the 2008 crisis, measures had been taken by the federal government to try to dampen economic unemployment, wage compensation, etc. Is this kind of measure vis-à-vis subcontractors that you think when you say you need to have leads towards them. At the level of the RCC, we may be able to anticipate. You were talking about the social aspect of the Renault law. We could anticipate in relation to subcontractors. Those who would for example be in exceptional conditions – 52 years – could benefit immediately without having to wait for the acceptance of the social aspect concerning Caterpillar under the Renault law. Beyond that, for the future too, it is a redundancies. This is the financialization of society. I think that at some point we have to make the simple decision to ban these redundancies. We have to charge. Things seem clear to me! And make everything repay: the aids... Sometimes you have to be imaginative. There is a lot of talk about employment aid; it can be conditioned. Here, we are talking mainly about reducing social security contributions and reducing tax burdens, or deductibility, including notional interest. I believe that at some point it will be necessary to put the files on the table clearly and not just as part of a reform of the ISoc, to talk about the conditionality of this whole tax system. I'm a supporter of it. I'm asking for it. At some point, when faced with unfair dismissals in the employer's head, one must be able to get money back. And if there is no bank account, you have to be able to capture the production tool in itself. I have heard a question from you that seems important to me, that is the right to information. Under the Renault law, there is a right to information. Here, the shock was brutal. Why, because the day before, no one knew about it. One might wonder if the carolo leadership knew about it. It looks like it's not. But imagining that they themselves were not aware, that you are not aware, that all the actors, including the politicians, are not aware, clearly raises the question of information. Normally, the information you need to have in the corporate board. Obviously, that's not enough. Obviously, you do not have information on consolidation, on the consolidated elements of a group like a multinational and therefore we should probably provide, within the framework of the right to information, for much wider information in the head of trade unions and workers' organisations. I come to other questions about your speech, Mr Cocciolo. There is no shame in speaking, there is no shame in telling the truth. There is no shame in saying that a worker had to make a sacrifice. You said you were ashamed to explain the efforts the workers had to make. Say it! Beyond these efforts which have been made by workers in terms of flexibility, wage reductions or social security contributions. This will allow us to see that all these efforts are ultimately useless. I think we need to explain what is happening in the social climate. This has often been one of Caterpillar's or other companies' explanations: "Look, the social climate is bad, the workers are not part of it, the workers are not ready to make efforts". You are threatened: if you do not impose the modifications, the efforts to be made, we will close the company. I would like you to explain Caterpillar's social climate. We are used to saying – excuse me, Mr. Hedebouw – that it was a core of PTBists to whom it was impossible to make anything clear. Explain this social climate to us! The efforts of the workers were mentioned. In addition, you have already, in part, given your position and measures concerning subcontractors. I would like to have an explanation of the objectives that have been set for you and that have not only been achieved but also exceeded. Finally, with respect to workers and subcontractors, you report an exception to the CCB. As this is part of the social climate and efforts put in place, what do you want to get? Let's get down to 52, let's go a little further? Gentlemen, thank you for your attention. We listened carefully. I hope that we will still have the opportunity to work together a lot. This is just a first step. The entire force of Parliament is mobilized. Even if one hears sometimes discordant voices about the solutions to be put in place, the examples to be taken elsewhere, etc., you put us at the foot of the wall. Beyond the speeches of each other, like the colleague who spoke before me, I believe that what you are waiting for is the realization. I will expect the same from him and from all the others who will be here today before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have all said so, but first of all I would like to say how scandalous I find the attitude of the management who chose not to present themselves today to explain to us. It is a display of contempt, cynicism towards the workers, their representatives and this Parliament. Mr President, I would like to give you an introduction to the emotion of an entire region. It is probably normal that the closer you are to the epicentre of an event, the more emotion you experience. Eric Massin referred to Charleroi's communal council, which was held yesterday and which was animated by mixed feelings: sadness, anger, but also determination. Yes, it is true: we are in shock, because the announcement was of extreme violence. On the form, we have seen a financial man coming out of the United States who delivered such a message. On the substance, the reasons given by the latter seem to be derisory in view of the economic and social consequences which affect an entire region. Friday, September 2nd will inevitably remain engraved in our memories. I talked about a dark Friday for Charleroi and his region, so dramatic the consequences are. In this respect, I would like to say how much the workers of Caterpillar and those of its subcontractors deserve our full support, but also our full respect. I would like to point out to the trade union organisations how responsible, constructive and positive I find their attitude, despite the circumstances and the tragedies that are constantly relayed to them. In my turn, I would like to inform you that together, at all levels of power, we stand by you in a fight that starts against the leadership of this company. Step after step and depending on the evolution of the procedure, we will have to exercise intelligence, seriousness, firmness and determination. If you will allow me, I suggest a way to think, which must be explored even before the procedure is launched. Have the trade union organisations, which seem to me to be the best placed in this field, asked lawyers specialized in company law to know what the law of 31 January 2009 on business continuity allows? Article 14, paragraph 2, allows the court and, in this case, Charleroi to be brought before it for entities having their seat in its judicial district. There are four to five entities, the main ones in the field of employment, which can appeal to the Charleroi court. All those concerned and, first and foremost, you and all the subcontractors, can apply to the Charleroi Commercial Court for, at the very least, to try to dispossess the Americans from the total control of the decisions that should be taken on the boards of directors of the entities located in Gosselies in particular, since the commercial court is competent to appoint an agent within them. That's the first suggestion I wanted to make. The testimony of a number of lawyers I consulted yesterday tells me that this is achievable. It is true that we take before you the commitment to save everything that can be saved. The size of 98 hectares of the site, ideally located, is discussed. It wasn't for nothing that Caterpillar was there at the time. The infrastructure is modern and functional as you just explained. When we talk about saving everything that can be saved, we also talk about the industrial activity of this site. We are not going to make sure that this site is transformed so that it welcomes something other than the industrial activity for which it is intended. We can imagine everything and make every effort to convert this industrial activity, this site, this infrastructure: an investor, a buyer or attract a competitor from Caterpillar... We have, it seems to me, the means to attract this kind of company to us. We also make a commitment before you to do everything possible to ensure a professional future for the workers concerned, those of Caterpillar but also those of the many subcontractors. We have just talked about this because Caterpillar's decision to destroy 2,200 direct jobs is also a decision targeting several thousand indirect jobs. You mentioned the figure of 7,000 families. Is this census final and complete? It is obviously a tragedy for Charleroi, his region, the Walloon Region and for the country. For them, the majority as opposed, at both the Walloon and federal levels, we must do everything possible to ensure that all their rights are respected. It is true that without the presence of management today, many questions will remain unanswered. Everything must be done, Mr. Chairman, so that we can get answers to these questions. Caterpillar has put forward a number of unconvincing explanations to try to justify what is similar to an earthquake in the Charleroi region. In this regard, you have informed us, even if we can supplement the point. Difficult arrangements for staff had been put in place in 2013, with a number of promises regarding the sustainability of the Gosselies site. One thousand six hundred out of the 3,700 jobs had been abolished. The efforts of the workers have been numerous. It was a binding plan, but it was above all a plan with promises. What does Caterpillar seem to tell us today? The site would suddenly have become too large and would generate unnecessary costs. At the time of the 2013 restructuring, this site was already too large. I am surprised to have recently received a number of testimonials about investor candidates interested in the Caterpillar website since 2013. These are companies which, knowing that this site was not 100% used, proposed, in frameworks quite complementary to Caterpillar's activity, to use the buildings, and sought to work with Caterpillar, to settle in their buildings. To these investor proposals, the site manager, Mr. Polutnik, had an invariable answer: "We are not interested in your approach." This is particularly damaging when we know the current situation. This site would be overproduction. But how could it be otherwise since the choice made at the time, as you explained, is the choice of a hyperspecialisation of the Gosselies site, focusing on the European market? However, we know that the European market is not the most expanding one today. At the time, did Caterpillar simply not seal the fate of the Gosselies site? When Mr Thomson tells us last Friday that the group is able to produce elsewhere, in Grenoble in particular, what is happening in Gosselies, at a lower cost, I would have really wanted to hear about what he hears "at a lower cost". I have the feeling, no doubt like you, that Caterpillar took the Gosselies workers by boat. Did they believe that there was a real chance of lasting the site after this negotiation, but especially after other negotiations elsewhere and behind their backs? I would like to hear from you about this vision because I have the feeling that it is the whole strategic vision of the group that leads to the situation we are experiencing today. I would like to remind you that at this stage a number of things must be initiated quickly, some before the start of the Renault procedure, others at the very beginning of the Renault procedure. Before imagining any form of retraining for workers, you have to have everything in mind, but I have the feeling that everything has to be done step after step. The political forces of the Charleroi region, through their representatives in the various governments, are at your side. That is the sense of action that we want to lead alongside you. Thank you for your presence today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when we heard that Caterpillar would close its headquarters in our country, we all saw this as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. We knew that the company has experienced difficulties over the past few years, but that is still happening in our country. Indeed, three years ago, in 2013, we saw that one third of the jobs disappeared: 1 331 people lost their jobs. However, there was a business plan and it was decided to continue to work. At that time, however, it has not been made clear in any way that this would be a step towards a complete closure. We were surprised, like you, when we heard the news. We regret the decision of the board of directors. She's causing a heavy blow and a lot of job losses in the region. Both direct employment of 2 000 to 2 200 people and indirect employment is under threat. The numbers vary. Today it has been said that 7 000 jobs are involved. Other figures have also been mentioned. In any case, we can assume that the number of families affected is many times greater than the 2 200 directly affected people, which in itself is enormous. We also regret that the board, which has been invited, is not here today. We could have asked her at least a few questions. I do not believe that employers are unhumans who want to bully people, but at least they could have been here to answer the questions that we live with. We cannot ask these questions today. I'm glad we'll be able to check whether the board shouldn't have been here in the first place. In the first instance, we express our condolences to the workers affected, both those directly affected in the company and those affected by subcontractors. We must do everything we can to help them. Those people have given themselves the best of themselves for years, even when they were asked a few years ago, to avoid further job losses, pay and be more flexible. They have done so, so they are not to blame at all. We now also regret that the government has invested in that company. There was a wage reduction and there were tax concessions, such as the notional interest deduction. Both the federal government and perhaps also the Walloon government offered support to the company to ensure that the establishment would remain in our country. After hearing the news, we were therefore stunned. It is therefore logical that we should investigate effectively, and I hope that the chairmen of the committee will also do so to whatever extent it is possible to recover the State aid granted, especially the federal state aid. That won't be easy. Nevertheless, we must try to do so. In the past, we have done so in part. We were then able to transfer Opel's land to the port. It is therefore necessary to consider whether the State aid can be recovered and, where appropriate, offset by the land which could be handed over to the public authorities. A number of questions that we had prepared for the union have already been answered. However, I still have a few questions on issues on which I do not yet have a clear view. Yesterday, Monday 5 September 2016, a first staff meeting was launched. The Renault Act has entered into force. An information and consultation round has been launched. How'd that meeting go? Trade unions not only have the opportunity to ask questions, but also to make proposals. Have you put specific proposals on the table? What were the initial reactions to that? What are your expectations as to how these proposals will be dealt with? What is your opinion on the course of events? Normally, the employer must report the collective dismissal by registered letter to the Director of the Subregional Employment Service as well as to the Chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. Is that what happened? Do you know if that report has happened yet, or should it still be done? Is there also a time for consultation with the Walloon Parliament, as we have here today? Finally, Commissioner Marianne Thyssen has stated that this is a positive sign that she will examine the possibility of support from the European Globalisation Fund. To this end, the Walloon Parliament should apply. Do you know whether the Walloon Parliament will apply for support from the European Globalisation Fund, if that is the case? That is why I am asking whether there has been any consultation with the Walloon Parliament. Has a hearing been organized yet? If we do not actually see any other possibility and have to resort to redundancies and even closure, then the European Globalisation Fund may be able to provide support. Finally, a positive proposal was also launched by the VBO. The VBO has asked for a task force to be set up in which representatives of the public authorities, the employment services, the professional sectors and also representatives of the affected workers are present, in order to ensure the reintegration of workers as soon as possible. I think that's a good thing. Of course, I don't want to give up all hope. If you see other solutions to save employment in full or in part, then we will be happy to cooperate from Parliament. However, if no other solutions are possible, I think that we must think effectively about the future. Suddenly, many families are threatening to fall without an income. The creation of a task force therefore seems to me to be a good thing. I'd like to ask if you're willing to cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to endorse the words of my fellow Members' disbelief. The announcement of the closure of the Caterpillar plant in Gosselies is a heavy blow to the workers and their families, a jaw blow to their faces. I sympathize with their pain, their disbelief and their powerlessness. I can feel that very well, because in Limburg we have a similar jaw blow involving more than 6 000 people losing their jobs, namely the direct workers of Ford and the workers of the suppliers and the indirect subcontractors. A lot of people in Limburg have felt that, as you know. Following that jaw stroke, we have the back dish in Limburg and we have rolled out the SALK plan. The SALK plan arose from a collaboration between the Flemish government, the provincial government and the various municipalities in Limburg and also with the social partners. As a result, SALK is today a very important strategic plan for Limburg. More than 300 million were pumped into the Limburg economy. We did so in the short term in order to create more employment, but we also took structural economic measures to strengthen Limburg's economic fabric in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to go into this in more detail. I think it is an important message for you, because you can get to work on these examples, as your comrades from Limburg have done. We have devoted massively to innovation in the manufacturing industry, in logistics mobility, in the leisure economy, in the creative economy, in ICT and digital media, but also in agriculture, horticulture and fruit growing. Innovation in construction and healthcare was also very much used. And we have done so because it is important and crucial for the transformation of economic development in Limburg. The LRM also invested in start-up platforms, such as the Innovation Centre. Today Corda Campus in Hasselt and all incubators in Genk are the beating heart of the new economy in Limburg. With risk capital, the LRM has also invested directly in the existing companies in Limburg. Other important points of action of the SALK are the rehabilitation and development of the Ford sites. Resources were used to attract new activities and investments. The innovation centre of Limburg was strengthened. In the field of education, because this is also essential, one of the main points of conflict is to increase the level of education and to reduce the language gap. New training and innovation were promoted. Innovation has been the code word of this plan. I read today in De Standaard, which is an important message, that the initiators, Professor Herman Daems of the SALK and Urbain Vandeurzen, the manager of the SALK, will give you a number of slopes. They raise a number of points. First, keep your head cool. Secondly, there is the negotiation of a good closure condition. I think a lot of my fellow Members have addressed this today. This is important in the short term, in order to provide security for a number of employees. Thirdly, don't look for big buyers - some colleagues have asked for the opposite, but I think it is important to learn from what we have experienced in Limburg - but build on ideas. Fourthly, support the multitude of initiatives and focus on innovation and internationalisation. Fifth, also essential, make what exists more workable and resilient. The aim of SALK was to create 10 000 new jobs in five years and we are already well on track in Limburg. The number of unemployed fell by 8.4 % between April 2015 and April 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that to draw attention to Limburg today, but to give you that message today. Because, gentlemen of the union, today you have an important key to the future and you need resilience and an open mind. An open mind with which we also started work in Limburg and an open mind with which you have to work in Hainaut, with a Marshall plan squared. I therefore have a number of questions for you. Are you prepared to launch a platform with the Walloon Government, the Province of Hainaut and the employers' organisations to develop a new strategic action plan for Hainaut? In connection with the outstretched hand I read in the newspaper today by Mr Daems and Mr Vandeurzen, are you prepared to sit down with them and learn together from what happened in Limburg? I wish you a great deal of courage, and I hope you will pass this courage on to all the workers who are having a very difficult time today. But today there is still a future in our country for a new economy, and we need reductions in costs and flexibility so that everyone can get back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues in the trade union for their presentation. Gentlemen of the union, I can very well imagine you're very busy right now. As one of the speakers said, the telephone will undoubtedly not stop. I can understand that you are probably needed elsewhere today, but you have taken the time to debate a very difficult subject with us. Along with a lot of Limburgers I really had a painful déjà-vu feeling. At times I have even had a goosebump; the fact that it is so recognizable makes it just as painful that we have to debate the same thing again today. On behalf of my party and myself, I wish you a great deal of strength and courage, because now the work begins for you. You have time until April, and that's not that long. There's a real assignment waiting for you. I think there should be room for emotions in the first place. It's important that someone can bring the emotions together. People will be angry, they will be sad, they will not see it again. Then it is important to show leadership, because in this difficult situation we will have to negotiate the best conditions for the workers, but also a good future for those for whom you now have to accept it. I wish you a great deal of courage, but I also think it is very important that the coherency will always be there. We are here today with a union and a political union. Unfortunately, the subcontractors have not been invited here today, but we may be able to hear them at a later stage. It is important that we stand side by side throughout the journey, because the real work is only just beginning. I sincerely hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the social dialogue will be able to proceed constructively. I have heard that you have not heard or been able to speak in the first forty-eight hours. I also know that the director on the ground is not the real interlocutor. It is important that you get an interlocutor with whom you can really negotiate and make agreements, from whom you can get reliable information to build on. I very much hope that the social dialogue, where it will all have to take place in the end, will have all the opportunities and will be constructive. An intention to close has been announced. I'd like to ask you to keep all options open, no matter how few chances of success some options have left. We must always start from the fact that all options remain open, even keeping a factory open, however unbelievable that may sound to many. We must always start by keeping everything open. In 2013, you have already experienced a major restructuring, with unfortunately a lot of your fellow Members having to do away with it. Goals have been set against this. Again we are talking about a company that makes a profit and demands a lot from its employees, but still takes the decision to close the factory in a cowardly way. I do not think we should underestimate what this does to the workers. It is very easy to say that they are all entitled to receive training. They're people who have given the best of themselves and are now being fired in a cowardly way. They have not received recognition for what they have done for the company all these years. I only have three questions. I heard in your statement that you gave several warnings after 2013. Did this happen in the company or at European level? Has this been discussed in the European Works Council? Were there any suggestions made there? In what way were these warnings cashed so that lessons could be learned? Mr Demir asked a question about wage costs. We are talking about a multinational. In another example, labour costs did not play any role either. I do wonder whether the fact that an employer in Belgium can dismiss his employee provided that the payment of a redundancy bonus, but has no obligation whatsoever, has played a role in the closure of this company? There has been a special works council. The Renault Act was launched. The declaration of intent has been made. The law also provides that the intention to close should be justified. Do you think that procedure went well?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u30	Mr President, I thank the representatives of the workers who spoke. I also thank them for their frankness, even if she does not surprise me. You have been able to put us back in our place and in the face of our responsibilities in this fight that we must lead now. I would like to repeat one of your comments which justifies the intensity and depth of your reaction: when the company officials write to the workers and recognise that the workers have enabled the company to achieve the objectives that have been assigned. In what world do we live if a company that recognizes that its workers have achieved the objectives assigned to them, decides to close the site concerned by this very positive evaluation? I say that because I hear a lot of indignation in my colleagues. I want to tell Olivier Chastel, I enjoyed his well-founded, reasoned and thoughtful speech. But it will be, and he knows it, to maintain the course in the long term, by a fight that will be announced in the long term. As far as I'm concerned, I think we have to name things. This is no more than 6,000 or 7,000 redundancies! If we look at the figures and if we don't just stay on the line, over the last twenty-two years, the dividends have been constantly increasing, even at the worst of the economic crisis. Between 2008 and now, the dividends were doubled. Looking back since the 2013 restriction, I compared the evolution of employment on the site (-45%) with the evolution of dividends (+30%). The Prime Minister said this weekend, "Yes, we're touching the limits of the system." No! We've far surpassed them. -45% on the employment parameter, +30% on the distribution of dividends. One can understand, the market is in contraction, difficulties exist. But then, why distribute so many dividends? We will even see, in 2009, that dividends per share are higher than profits per share. Of course, such an economic model is untenable. We'll have to go beyond that. I appreciate you saying that it should make us think beyond the case we are talking about here. It is the economic model that is being questioned, the financial model that is behind it. We will be as parliamentarians, also on this issue, in the face of our responsibilities. We have to do it over time, I say again. But there is already something we can do in the short term. I am speaking here mainly to colleagues in the majority. In the fight that begins today, we see how important the Renault law, despite its imperfections – my colleagues will propose changes, including a strengthening of the legal system – is to allow (among other things to the Walloon government) to act in this phase of information and then in the phase of negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in the government agreement, I am concerned about a passage since you want to call into question, to revise downwards and to empty the Renault law of its substance. On page 12, I read your willingness to adapt the regulatory framework provided for by the Renault law to further shorten procedures and put in place modalities to conclude the first phase of force. You have to remove this dimension. Fortunately, it has not yet been adopted at Parliament level. Can you imagine for a moment, ladies and gentlemen, that this mechanism is already in place? Not only would Caterpillar's officials not have come to the first and second summons, but they would not care! At the very least, could you, in the same unanimism that emerges today - and I have also heard the Flemish parties of the majority - reassure on this aspect: it will not be implemented? I shall conclude, Mr President, with a question for the representatives of the workers. I will be brief because most of my speech will be addressed to Ministers on Thursday. I hope that we will have a real dialogue in this "current affairs debate" as you said. This implies that there is interaction. So I have a question for you. I heard one of you earlier talking about a company council, not the last one, just before, August, if I noted correctly. I would like to know more about what was said exactly at this corporate council, which, from what I heard, seemed rather positive. I would like you to be able to be a little more precise, perhaps by sending a letter later to the committee. In parliamentary proceedings, this could provide a basis for justifying the application of Article 14 to which Olivier Chastel referred, and which can indeed be useful in a broader framework. I would therefore like you to be able to equip us on this aspect, while knowing that your responsibility is broader, and you referred to it earlier. So in your reply time, I'd like you to tell us what was said, the date of that corporate council, and to assure us that nothing negative or that allowed us to guess what was going to be played a few days later, was told to you. I thank you in advance for the clarifications you will bring on this aspect, it is useful for the continuation of the fight that we will have to conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u31	Gentlemen, I would like to thank you and all the workers you represent. I believe that everyone here and even more so in contact with the workers directly, we obviously want both to support you and to be in full solidarity with those who are affected by this social tragedy. It is the whole region of Charleroi but not only; it also affects neighbouring regions; the province of Hainaut is singularly shaken by what can clearly be called a social earthquake. We must, of course, first and foremost work together in relation to the current situation and the future of workers, and more broadly, in relation to the challenges of tomorrow's and the future's employment strategy. I would like to stress one point. You recalled how much the workers had done to maintain the activity, in particular by making efforts in terms of flexibility. You made it clear that management's objectives had been achieved and even exceeded. I would like to repeat this in response to those who wanted to point out trade union responsibility by saying that it was because of the workers and their representatives that Caterpillar had led to this catastrophic situation. I register falsely against such allegations. Such a political message is obviously too easy. It is also important to recall the efforts of the public authorities. The figures are known, whether about notional interests or other aids. I am struck by their unconditionality with regard to the guarantees for employment. This is, of course, one of the crucial points that we will have to address. Personally, I did not know that it was possible to pay tax in Switzerland. You just taught me. I would like further information in this regard. You have explained that certain responsibilities must be sought in the wrong strategic choices, both in terms of the market and in terms of the machinery to be produced. About this relocation, we're talking about China. It is also a question of Grenoble, where – as I know – the cost of labour is obviously not comparable to that of us – unless a red carpet has been drawn up by the French government. I don't know. Besides, I don't know if you had any contact with the workers' representatives at the Grenoble site. In any case, it is an illustration of this race to the internal scale in Europe, which completely weakens employment as well as the European project. The most immediate and urgent action is not within the purview of the House but of the representatives of the workers and the governments. The different governments (federal or regional) must unite with you to save everything that can be saved. Whatever activity one can maintain in Gosselies, it is necessary to fight both for Caterpillar workers and for those of subcontractors. The track of a picker must also be examined. I can only insist on what you said about the site, the major hub for the development of Charleroi. There are indeed opportunities to maintain an activity there, at least on a part of the ground. The activities to be developed there represent a major challenge for the development of Charleroi, its region and the province of Hainaut. There can be no question of letting this land go, quite the contrary. On the part of parliamentarians, a series of points in your remarks can be highlighted, points on which I would like to bounce back in order to question the parliamentarians of the majority and of which I have some questions. Beyond the fact that we must fight to save what can be saved, there is also a question of the personal future of each worker, including the part of the conversion which concerns the Walloon Region. However, the federal government has some levers on which to build, namely the question of pre-pension now called unemployment with additional business. Today's rule provides for it to start at 55 years of age until the end of December. You recalled Caterpillar's 2013 decisions and restructuring. It seems that the oldest Caterpillar worker today is at this age. At Ford Genk in 2012, the age limit was 50 years at the time of the announcement and 52 years at the time of the closure. The question I ask you, but I also ask parliamentarians of the majority and ministers of the federal government, is whether there should be a regime similar to what could have been given to Ford Genk in terms of the RCC, namely the ages that I have just recalled. The reality of Caterpillar is this reality of the oldest worker who is 55 years old. We know why the CCB model was changed. But there are also perverse effects. Since Caterpillar's announcement, when I hear AXA, when I hear CP Bourg or IBM, I clearly ask myself whether there is any perverse effect of this change in the age of the RCC. Everyone here knows that the end of 2016 is a pivotal moment. Each company had its business lawyers work to find out what it would cost depending on when it would make that decision. This is an issue that the federal government needs to address. When I see the four companies I have just mentioned, and perhaps others, I fear that there is some kind of race between companies that have made their accounts and that they are now going to have to make that decision here or perhaps jobs could have been maintained. But these companies think that then it will cost them a lot more if they ever had to lay off. That's a real question. I turn it to you as workers' representatives but also to the federal government because if there is a perverse effect that could lead to a haemorrhage at the corporate level before 2017, you have to be able to ask yourself whether important and fundamental decisions must not be made to save jobs and to prevent companies from doing so for fear of losing money if they decide to lay off. We also have opportunities for reductions in social contributions for businesses. So, yes, the question of extending the length of time that this reduction in social contributions can be granted is an issue that I will rest with the government on Thursday. I see this fine unanimity at the level of the majority and the opposition parliamentarians, but I turn to you, the majority parliamentarians: we can, in relation to that, move this type of decision forward because some small and larger companies have manifested themselves in the Charleroi region and the province of Hainaut to say that they have workers who have a sharp, extremely high level of training; it is a great value, probably the greatest today in the labour market for workers who need to reconvert and, indeed, in relation to that, it is for the government to activate the levers so that these companies have facilities, including the reductions in social contributions to be able to hire these different workers tomorrow and guarantee their future. Secondly, I would like to address a whole series of issues that I think are quite important. There is an issue that is not immediate or urgent but one that is that of the future of employment and the labour market in Belgium. Of course, the social partners are invited - and fortunately, all that would be lacking! - to discuss all aspects of work flexibility. The social partners, both at the federal level and elsewhere, are included in a series of consultations. If there is one fundamental issue of employment on which the social partners are not invited to discuss, it is taxation. I would therefore like to have your opinion on this matter. Is it not time today, for a subject which affects society as a whole, citizens, workers and the future of the labour market, that the social partners should be involved at all levels of power, and that their expertise should be used to discuss tax matters? The federal government is currently discussing the ISoc, notional interests. We have made proposals, tabled texts on this subject to review the notional interests and to rework against SMEs which have non-relocable jobs, unlike many multinationals. I appeal to the government to involve the partners in the tax debate, in particular the business debate and the direct or indirect support to be given to them – unless you answer, as workers' representatives, that this is not interesting. It seems to me that you need to participate in such essential societal debates, as you can bring your expertise in terms of employment. Subsequently, an agreement was reached during the 2013 restructuring. Did the discussions then also focus on the future of society and on job guarantees? Collective agreements have been signed. I examined them, but found no evidence of such considerations. Do you not consider it important that, in the course of such negotiated restructurings, conditions should be laid down in terms of job security? It's an open question. I'm very interested in your opinion. I'm coming to the Renault law. It has evolved to give priority to informing workers of the company's intentions. Is this procedure not too late? Some would argue that government intervention to put pressure on businesses is not working. I note, however, that, in the case of Audi, we have been able to save a large number of jobs. The Renault law must be able to evolve on various aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this project should be opened with the social partners, particularly in the Committee on Social Affairs. This is certainly not urgent, but we will have to discuss it without too much delay. Subcontractors do not benefit from the same framework as that offered to workers by trade unions. I hope that the conversion units will also pay close attention to the reality of the workers of the subcontractors. But for your part, do you have any contact with those who work in these companies? Should a specific and complementary unit be set up by the public authorities? Should a social conciliator be appointed quickly? For reasons of confidentiality, I let you appreciate what you can say or not. I will not recall the figures we know. Personally, I consulted Caterpillar's reports and the National Bank's data. I would like to know whether the management has already submitted the economic report to you. The first phase of the Renault law provides for this. I know that you have no other interlocutor than the Belgian leadership, but it itself is dismissed. If he hasn't arrived yet, do you know when this economic report will be? Do you have any new information to share with us in addition to what we have already seen on the basis of the Caterpillar and the National Bank reports? Mr President, these are my questions to the workers' representatives whom I would like to thank again for their investment here and on a daily basis, alongside the workers. It'll be hard in the coming days and weeks. These issues can also be considered in preparation for the debate we will have in plenary on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u32	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, dear comrades, I would like to thank you for coming here today. Your legitimacy is strong in the testimony you have given. You are confronted daily with this violence of discussion with management. When I hear you were searched in 2013, before I could enter a room, as a parliamentarian, I can't imagine it. We sometimes feel like we're in a Bisounour world in parliament, but when you negotiate there, being searched before entering somewhere, it's not funny! As far as I hear the violence used in the negotiations, we are not in the Bisounour world! I feel challenged as a politician. What is being done to reintroduce democracy and human rights in such undertakings? How can we, the public power, help protect workers from such social tragedies? This is today's debate. I am not going to be very long in the matter of this denunciation, many of my colleagues have done so. I hear regularly that we are talking about financial capitalism. In the framework of Caterpillar, it is indeed industrial capitalism, capitalism as such, the one who unbridledly seeks profit, as all groups do on a global level. It is this question that is raised in the debate on this requested unit. A sacred union for what? What are we doing? Are we already in the future, in the debate about how we carry out a conversion, how to find pre-pensions, how to give premiums? Or are we in the debate whether we can still achieve something on Caterpillar's site today? It is not the first time that this question has been asked. Exactly the same was asked us on the occasion of Ford Genk and Opel Antwerpen. The same question was asked with ArcelorMittal in Liège: what are we going to do? Are we going to witness fatally these job massacres by having at least had the honour of setting up a small p.v. of a parliamentary debate that will show that we have judged this unfair or are we going to discuss today how to establish a concrete balance of forces with Caterpillar? It is the current political dossier that is before us. Now, as we can see, Caterpillar can only hear one language: that of money! If we don't hurt Caterpillar, his leaders won't even listen to us. The other groups had at least come to parliament by adopting an attitude of the kind "still cause, you interest me". Everyone had been able to express themselves, but the closure had, in any case, already been decided. In this case Caterpillar does not even come to parliament on the grounds that it takes too long: "We have no time to waste with the MPs. Anyway, they can't do anything against us." That's Caterpillar's basic ideology. I hear my comrades saying that you have to maintain lines and explore all the tracks to keep the tool on site. This is the debate we must conduct. What are the power relations? We have public utility and common sense on our side. We cannot accept a region being massacred socially simply because it is decided by a multinational. Ladies and gentlemen, we must discuss the means of exerting pressure as politicians on Caterpillar. I'm not talking about tomorrow's closures. This debate may be of interest to us in a month or two. As with each closure, we will reflect on the laws to be developed to avoid others and to prevent tax gifts. The question now is what we, as a political power, will be able to do to keep the tool on Caterpillar's site. That is the question we are being asked. It is said that in Limburg everything is rosy after the SALK-plan, but it is a fact that one third of the employees of Ford Genk have still not found a job. What is it about when people talk about change? We need industry in Europe, that is what this is about. We need industries in Europe. This is the failure of European policies today, and it is that in order to be able to create and sell bulldozers, we must have construction. To be able to build, we must have a European policy that makes it possible to make investments. But we're just doing the opposite! States today are prohibited from investing in public works. It's really the snake that bites its tail. We're doing austerity, so there's an economic downturn, so we're losing jobs, so we're losing purchasing power, so we're losing the ability to intervene for the public authorities. This is the current debate. We started the debate this weekend and we believe in the PTB that we need to explore all the possibilities to put Caterpillar under pressure. It is clear that the only thing that will hurt Caterpillar is the tool. It's the tool he still needs to dismember, it's the tool that's a war treasure. The workers have understood this well. I understand that production is maintained at the site level and that no machine came out of the company. De facto, workers are already performing a form of input on the tool. We must help them at the legal level. I believe that we must shoulder our responsibilities in this matter. In this sense, I plead that we should explore all the possibilities to have a seizure, a requisition of the tools to help in the future negotiation. Today we must help these workers in their negotiations. We must shoulder our responsibilities. My second point concerns the reason for Caterpillar's decision. That must make us think. Caterpillar does not relocate to China. Caterpillar relocates to Grenoble. The reasons are clear. Today, it is easier to lay off in Belgium than in France. That is the reason. You can fire in Belgium today like two fingers, it's easy, you must hardly justify yourself. In France, there are procedures, laws that protect workers. Courts may intervene in proceedings where the dismissal is unfair. At home, it is complete liberalism, it is a simple contract, as for a commodity. You're a worker, you're a commodity. We must stop with this very lax framework. We need to start thinking about how to make these redundancies much more difficult. My third point concerns the outlook. In Belgium, we have had cases of companies that were announced closed and for which today there is still activity on the site. It's possible, there were fighting that led to him. The political world must shoulder its responsibilities. There's the case of Audi. Audi was announced in closing but with the workers' fight, with the investment of the public authorities, we managed to keep the work on the site. The Forges of Clabecq. I hear that this is an example that shows that, economically, the situation is difficult. We had announced their total closure. Today, 600 people are still active on the site. Why? Because a balance of forces has been established. We must draw inspiration from this fight to keep the tool on the site before going straight to the chapter of conversion. Because, today, these jobs are indispensable for our society. As for this rumor about PTBists' cores, I had never heard of it. I believe that my trade union colleagues are large enough to lead their own policies. I note that in Caterpillar, they are PTBists, they were also at Ford, Doosan, InBev, etc. We put all the world's restructurings back on the PTB. We must stop with this, stop pointing at those who resist and take an interest in the real responsibles of this social massacre which are the decision-makers of Caterpillar! I will take up a small sentence from Nicolas Polutnik who is not one of our friends but who is very clear about his objectives. During the 2013 restructuring, he said: "These job losses are painful, but they are necessary if the site is to survive. These measures are the only way to sustain the plant beyond 2015." I would like to ask the workers' representatives what exactly the management promised in 2013 with regard to the sustainability of the company, during the first restructuring which put 1,400 people at the door. What commitments have been given? Furthermore, are you already involved in the whole restructuring, including that of subcontractors and co-contractors? I heard the figure of 7,000. Are you still in the study phase to map the whole or is this figure already definitive? My third question concerns the way in which workers accuse the blow. You said your gsm keeps heating up. What does it say in the company? What is the state of mind? How do people reason? How do they see the future in the next three weeks? Fourth, management justifies closure for economic reasons. What are his arguments? What do you think? Fifthly, at the level of taxation – since the debate was obviously important – I will not go back to the figures. The PTB has always denounced the policy of the coordination centres transformed into financial centres with around 4 to 5% taxes. Often multinationals – and there is not much visibility in this area – set the selling price and the purchase price of the parts upstream and downstream. I heard that in the company's ranks. If I understand correctly, Caterpillar assembling the material in Belgium cannot therefore judge the price at which the parts are sold to him and it is another Caterpillar organ, in Switzerland in particular, that sells the part. That is, your margin is quite determined in advance. This technique is common among multinationals. To make the profits fluctuate, they increase the price of the parts upstream a little and they make all the profit downstream at the level of another company. Caterpillar thus completely directs the formation of prices within his company. Do you feel that this mechanism has been set up at Caterpillar Belgium level? If so, give us some details, because in the area of taxation, if that is true, the situation is even worse than a few notional interests. One would really be in the organisation of two-speed taxation at the multinational level, and that is what has to be denounced. Thank you for your answers. Still a lot of courage for the fight to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u33	In my turn, I would like to join my colleagues in thanking the representatives of the trade union organisations who have come to tell us about the situation in Caterpillar. Mr President, I consider the Caterpillar leadership's refusal to come before us as an affront to the democratic institution that we are. It is an affront not only to us, small people, but above all an affront to all the citizens of this country. I think it's really a lack of respect, almost education not to come. All the more so because if it is the Renault law that management claims not to present itself, it does not hold up the road since they have informed them of their intention and therefore the procedure is relaxed and there is no longer this risk of leaking in the press. The procedure would have been respected since the trade unions were informed. So, really, their absence has no reason to be and is absolutely not justified. Mr President, while the demands of trade union organisations have been heard in terms of Belgian legislation, there is a real problem on the part of the European Union, which once again demonstrates its weakness in terms of socio-economic regulation. There is now a negotiation between the United States and Europe. When I see how it goes, I think we don't weigh heavy. Mr President, it is clear that our system has its limits, both at the federal level and in Wallonia. I am thinking of notional interests and subsidies of all kinds. This is obviously not the right solution; it does not work. We need to find something else. The parliamentary consensus encourages us to get to work. When a disaster occurs, one always exclaims: never again! This formula is recurrent. As the previous colleague said, such a situation must not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u34	Workers' representatives, like all my colleagues, I would like to thank you sincerely for your presence and your analysis. Again, I think to myself: in which surreal country do we live! It's aberrant. You are asked to report to us and explain to you about the situation in Caterpillar, while management refuses to come. In these circumstances, it is difficult to conduct a comprehensive debate. We have not been aware of the figures or the reasons for this decision. So we could discuss it for a long time. In any case, we hope that this lamentable behaviour and lack of courage will come to an end, so that management will come to answer our questions, yours and especially those of the workers. Mr Hoslet, you recalled the social earthquake of 2013. I remember it very well because, at the time, I was already dealing with this file. We were already between indignation and anger. We knew very well that Caterpillar was making profits and we were still learning, as you said, the dismissal of 1,665 people, 43% of the workforce and a possible closure of the site. Whole families have been plunged into anguish, in turmoil, families to which are added all the people who depend on Caterpillar, the traders, the co-contractors, the local merchants, the little bistro, all those who have suffered collateral damage. Mr Cocciolo, you recalled, you fought like lions to avoid the worst, until you could accept the unacceptable as trade union representatives. Like you, to avoid the worst, the workers and their families have also made sacrifices. They paid the price and they accepted everything. They accepted this famous flexibility, the loss of recovery days, to work on weekends by sacrificing their family life, a loss of pay, and I pass it. Management has received everything, as all objectives have been achieved. "It's all right, Mrs. Marquise." But today, she decides to close the site, to send an American representative with an interpreter who doesn't even understand the American accent to explain that "the numbers are not too good but, that's it, we close". On Friday, I accompanied some people. You're talking about dignity, but it even goes beyond that. It's like when we're taught the death of a loved one. First, we need to store the information. The workers first did not realize what was happening, so the information was brutal and sudden. As with us, we must give them time to digest this bad news and get on with the debate and the action that will follow. I'm surprised, shocked, scared. But the lack of empathy for these thousands of workers and people who have given everything, it no longer surprises me! It is a slap, it is the invisible hand of overt liberalism whose face is visible here. No one can condemn the workers and make them believe that they have not given enough. We must look at the financial logics that leave the human in the background, which is intolerable. Here we are many from the Charleroi region. We all have a neighbor or family member who works at Caterpillar. How can we politicians share their revolt and despair? Today what's going to happen? The majority as the opposition has understood: the situation is intolerable. I ask myself questions that you answer in part, but I want a debate to be held and answers from Caterpillar management. We need to think about how concretely to put tools in place so that this situation does not happen again. You alluded to the crusades. Believe me, the socialists will go on a crusade! It's not just a carolo problem. Everyone today spoke of sacred union, unity and unanimity. However, I have heard others who are making a surprising speech because, a few months ago, they gave me the impression that the unions should be abolished because they had too much power when today we are even more trade unionist than the unions. So much the better if there is a reversal in the situation: we must have a political majority in order to adopt ambitious measures so that this kind of tragedy can no longer happen again. I will not repeat all the questions asked today, I will make them my own. The PS Group has already put on the table a whole series of proposals and we will make more proposals. It is time to bring all those who want to work together around the table in order to move forward quickly and find legal or other solutions in order to maintain the tool and ensure that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u35	The last speaker is, last but not least, Mr Calvo. Mr Calvo, may I ask you to speak very briefly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u36	Mr President, I will take the floor very briefly, because a great deal has already been said and the story of the trade unions present today is more important than ours. Gentlemen, I would particularly like to ask you to pass on the words of support and the strong words of rejection by the management to your employees. I would even ask them to pass on the message that those words of support were in both French and Dutch. Because when we read the newspapers today, we sometimes feel that this is a community issue. I very much regret the lack of attention in the Dutch-speaking media on the issue, although 40% of the affected employees in subcontracting are Fleming. I am particularly sorry for the lack of language in terms of dismissals. This is not a Community question. Today, we are all Carolos. It is important, especially at a time when division is being sown too quickly, to emphasise that. I read today that for Flanders Charleroi has no future. I disagree. They're wrong. Neither the Francophones nor the Dutch speakers will let Charleroi go. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the national unity and the firm stance will last longer than usual. I hope that some of the statements that are being made here today will still stand when we discuss the reform of corporate taxation here in Parliament, for example. Similarly, I hope that considerations made today will still be present in the autumn budget debate. So I hope today's statements are more than crocodile tears. Ladies and gentlemen, with my questions, I would like to draw on your commitment and on-the-job knowledge on two issues. Firstly, there has already been talk of possible intentions to amend the Renault Act. What, based on your experience, is an interesting adjustment? Reference was made to an intention to do so in the coalition agreement. How do you feel about that? A suggestion that our Ecolo-Green Group thinks is worth investigating is also to integrate subcontracting into the Renault law, and thus to integrate it into the process. Do you find that suggestion interesting or not? Secondly, after the Renault Act, we need a Caterpillar Act. I am referring to all the information you have on grants, discounts, support and training programmes, and I would ask you to make those figures available to Parliament. In 2012, Mr Gilkinet and I tabled a legislative proposal to recover aid in the event of stock exchange redundancies in profitable companies, as is the case today. Ladies and gentlemen, if they are more than crocodile tears, then I believe that such legislative steps absolutely must be taken. The first stage, for the Caterpillar case, is to map the aid neatly, because it is huge, as for many multinational companies in our country. You can rest assured that we will be particularly persistent in the case of such legislative initiatives. We hope that the Caterpillar workers will have a vote in Parliament even after today. I shall confine myself to those two questions, and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, all the speakers who have been inscribed have taken the floor. I thank all the speakers. I think we have had quality interventions with content. Everyone took the time to express themselves. This demonstrates to our guests that no one takes the case lightly and that we really want to get to the bottom of things on a number of issues. I now return to our three guests and ask them for a difficult exercise, that of reacting to the comments that have been made and to a number of questions. Everything may not be possible and the debate is not over, but it will be useful for future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u38	Mr President, it will be difficult to answer everything. You've prepared the ground, thank you. I ask you a little indulgence because the announcement of the closure of Gosselies only dates back a few days. I see that there are already strategies, development, examples that are presented: "We must have courage, we must accept very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc." We're pragmatic. We're in a situation of business closure. Everything that comes will be analysed, discussed with the political authorities, the employers' organisations and ourselves. We're not in a situation where we have to make our mouths. In today's approach, the technical aspect, the derogation aspect, the pre-pension aspect that could be lowered, economic unemployment, training, conversion cells, etc. For all of this, Mr. Hoslet and I are specialists, without showing any pretension. It's been ten years since we've been going through business closures. We know all this. It is true that all these arguments and tools are becoming more and more complicated. Government measures have been taken to complicate these situations and negotiations. We'll come back. We'll take the different steps. As far as the state of the place and the state of the workers are concerned, they are worthy. They are also exceptional and I think everyone has noticed it. But we have the impression that they have been exceptional for two days. Workers have been exceptional for decades. They've loved their tools for years, loved their business, and loved their jobs. That's how the workers have nothing else, no bank account in Switzerland, no stock or anything. We only have work, just work to feed our families and continue to survive. If this cataclysm has opened the eyes of some to the dignity of the workers, of the working class, perhaps it is to open their eyes to the population and its ability to be worthy. Not because they have to deal with it, but because it's like this in the workers. The education of workers is that. We work, we do our job well and we protect the work tool because we have nothing else. On the other hand, other questions arose about the attitude of the leadership: thieves, bandits, thugs. Even the Prime Minister used very strong words in relation to behaviour. The Prime Minister, after the Caterpillar disaster, realized that the bosses are not choir children and that the multinationals are able to go very far in insulting a population like that of Belgium, that they insult the parliamentary committee and that they insult all the politicians in this country. Caterpillar's cataclysm has opened eyes to those who believe that this is a situation that may change some people's behaviour in the coming months, in the coming years. The questions about why Caterpillar chose Gosselies and I disagree with Mr Hoselt, and that is very rare. Here it is said that this is a bad strategy of the multinational Caterpillar in relation to industrial choices. But who lost here? It's not Caterpillar's defeat, it's not a mistake. Shareholders receive dividends each year that are increasingly high. They have a financial strategy and regardless of economic systems at global, local or regional level, they apply strategies to guarantee dividends to their shareholders. It is not a disaster of Caterpillar's strategy, they each time succeed in enriching those who are as rich and still a little richer. I have little opportunity to see you as grouped, so I'm enjoying a little and maybe I'm going to be excessive. Make sure to block such decisions! If you want to keep an industry in Europe and maintain jobs in Belgium, you need to review the copy of your austerity policies. I'm talking about Caterpillar, because it's directly linked to major public works. If you tighten austerity plans and budget restrictions, such companies will never be able to sell machines in Europe. It is a reality, which is also our defeat. So we're going to have to react. On the other hand, every time we look for the causes, we will have to go back a long way in responsibilities. Olivier Chastel said, "We are ready to take action." We play in every field: legal, political, trade union, employers. We want all the forces in this country to be able to respond to this situation. We were asked if we had contacted the Walloon and federal authorities within 48 hours. We've seen everyone. Everyone is putting in place mechanisms and has put at our disposal the best lawyers to be able to manage this situation. But you have understood our message, which goes beyond these aspects. A question was asked about taxation: why is tax paid in Switzerland? I'm not gonna answer you in a technical way, because I'm not a specialist. Behind me is our counselor, who will be able to answer you one day. In any case, they're bandits! Three years ago, a U.S. parliamentary commission produced a study and followed up with Caterpillar panties on its tax practices in Geneva. The group is therefore run by American justice. They are therefore not only bandits in Belgium, but wherever it is possible to make money. We want to put all this forward. We do not live in a Bisounour society, as you know, but do not deceive the population. To believe that we are going to give aid to encourage companies to come, by closing their eyes, before embarking on big statements - an attitude which also shockes workers - is over! I don't know how far we're going, but we're going to put the package to go as far as possible. If it is not us, it may be other trade unionists with other companies that will close in a few months or years. We'd better have that goal together. As I said earlier, we are the representatives of the workers, you are also the political representatives of the population of this country. The role of a parliament and a government is to protect the entire population of a country and not just multinationals, certain employers or elites. I am committed to it and will ensure that things are as clear as possible. For our part, we're going to continue the fight. In Charleroi, Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders will not be forgotten. We know that if there is no such connection between the levels of power, the strategies of withdrawal on oneself, it is also intolerance, racism and everything else. We have this idea of society. But in society, we need quality jobs, whether they are private or public. I'll finish on that. There are contradictions in the discourse that increasingly wants to give control of the economy to the private ones who sometimes impose austerity strategies that result in closures of businesses and poverty in the regions. That's what I meant. I probably didn't answer all the questions. Limburg, we'll see, but it's also a special situation. Wallonia and Charleroi is a special situation. There is no one-size-fits-all method that applies to every disaster. We'll make contacts, don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u39	Mr. President, there are only a few questions. As my colleague would say, as long as you're here, we can let go a little bit! You usually feel like it's always "cause." That the management is not there, is not surprising. That's always how it worked, she said, "The law is the law." The debate is already well-positioned, how can we change the laws and force the bosses to come and explain themselves to the citizens? I like the word social partners. "Partner" says everything. We share a goal, a goal together, worker, employee but also employer. At Caterpillar, we are not social partners, we could very well ignore each other and be on their side, we are considered a social obligation. There is a margin between social partners and social obligations. By grace, let us not fall into a path that would be to say that it is a North-South, left-right debate. It is simply a human debate. What kind of society do we want tomorrow? Charleroi was well present in Brussels for Volkswagen, Charleroi was well present for Opel in Antwerp, Charleroi was well present in Genk for Volkswagen. And everyone tried to find solutions together. I will try to be exhaustive in all the questions you have mentioned. 10,000 jobs, that's the announcement we were given after 2013. In the world, Caterpillar had to reduce the number of jobs by 10,000. We sincerely thought we had paid our tribute because we had just lost 1,600 jobs. The way management presented things to us was to say to us: "You know, on the logistical level, we are still much better in Gosselies than in Grenoble", "You know, there is not only the cost of labour that counts, there are the separate parts, the finished product that we have to transport", "If there were to possibly be something, suppose that it may be possible for Grenoble to come to Gosselies". So when we are told that there are going to be European business councils everywhere, we expect everything. As a result, nothing was expected at all, status quo, and eventually a reduction in wing size was expected, as we have been out of work at 20% since then. We said we'd cut our wings, maybe we'll have a second restructuring plan of more or less 20%. Sometimes the misfortune of some makes the happiness of others, one expected to have more work by learning that eventually Grenoble would restructure. We expected everything, except for this closing announcement. Why? Because we were asked in 2013 to be - the central theme at home being speed - as fast as possible between order and delivery. To do this, Caterpillar, as in other places, works 24 hours a day, seven days a week. There are special schedules Friday-Saturday-Sunday, Saturday-Sunday-Monday. So, in terms of flexibility and speed, we have everything we need; we can no longer give anything else. As far as technology is concerned, the research and development branch, which came from the United States - and it is perhaps a tare not to have one on the Gosselies site - gave us a new product: Tier 4. Thanks to the workers in Caterpillar, we were able to develop it. We have met all the technical challenges. I'm sorry, but if we have the best speed and the best products, how come we manage to close this company that earns profits? Unfortunately, there is a global overcapacity. For the social climate, I won't teach you anything. When a country goes wrong, we answer the citizen's discontent by getting the blue collars out. It is not necessarily the white collars and the frames that will demonstrate and fight to change the world. I do not think that our history and that of France have been built on this pattern. It's the poorest people who are revolting. It is true that the workers in Caterpillar have often been called upon to express the general discontent of the workers. It wasn't about a strike for Caterpillar. It is, moreover, a company where one almost never strikes. As the workers of society were mobilized twenty-four out of twenty-four, they were often the first to show their solidarity. The Setca, the CNE and our executive friends considered us as cannon flesh every time the social climate was bad. Secondly, the Renault law has been a positive point for us, but we recognize that it is mainly used to save time. Even if we prove that the boss is wrong and aware of it, a boss has already told me "yes, Jean-Marie, we may have made a mistake". Nevertheless the decision is made and we continue. This means that the Renault law is perfectable since in any case, if the decision is taken, it can be applied. With regard to phase 1, in the delimitation of time, unilaterally, the boss can say at any time that he believes he has answered all the questions asked. For trade unions, it is not Phase 1 which is the most problematic, but Phase 2 which is defined in time. If no solution has been found in the negotiation, which is often very harsh, dismissals begin after the first month. An extension should then be requested if negotiations are not completed after this preliminary phase 2 as there are two options in Phase 2. In terms of CAT's profitability, the majority of its competitors are CAT! Caterpillar is his own competitor. Every five years, site managers go to the United States, have a product presented to them and ask who is capable of producing it at a cheaper price. All site managers then argue to be the first and the least'so-called'. Caterpillar is thus self-fed and self-destructed by creating this overbidding or this "less-disance" from one site to another. It is clear that there Mr Polutnik may have made a big mistake in choosing Europe and Tier 4. Maybe he thought that being first on the ball was the best thing. With regard to the RCC solution, of grace, let us not confuse pre-pension of old and current RCC. A pre-pension in time, it was a status. Everyone dreamed of this status by saying, "My career is over, I can rest." A rest sometimes well deserved. The RCC, even when you are RCC, you are required to actively seek work. The RCC is to be seen as a net. "You left Caterpillar's, you don't know how to get back on the job market, but so much so, you try, as an interim, or as a CDD elsewhere. But if you break your face, you still have your RCC status." And that's what we have to have, not a right not to do anything, not to work. That's not what we're asking for, but a permanent net for people who are victims of restructuring such as Caterpillar. So when you ask for lowering, of course you want it as low as possible. It's not to do nothing, it's just to have a net and psychologically, for a worker, it's a recognition of his potential faculties. As far as Europe is concerned, re-industrialisation, here we have an example that is very dear to me. We've been working on our steel industry! We let our carbon ratio go, because we did not react quickly enough together at European level. We had the right reflex for stainless steel, we created analytical grids to ensure that if competition was unfair, import taxes could be introduced. Here we see a good European example, in which we protect ourselves from China, which galvaudes the human being. The field must be the plum of our eyes. You really have to keep it and make sure it's conditioned. Let us take the example given above. You've received help. The way to recover this aid is perhaps to make this land available to an intercommunal which already exists in Charleroi. At the contract level, it is "the least 10 years" that prevails at the beginning, but it has perverse effects. People quickly come to Belgium because it's easy to fire. But when you have to lay off, it's easier to lay off. Take the example in Germany where trade unions are on the boards of directors. In Holland, if you want to lay off, you have to go to court first. In France, there is the council of the prud'hommes. We are the country where it is the easiest to lay off. The regulatory potentiometer is easily chosen: it is Belgium for its speed and ease of dismissal. We have thought of everything, yes, but I agree quite well with Mr Cocciolo: it is very new, it is a shock. We are trying to get back up, to look at the possibilities at the legislative level, at the court level. But the Renault law, I remind you, is a "intention" to close, it is not formal. Nothing's done. And the worst part is what we're experiencing right now, it's a week without questions, without answers. We had never experienced this kind of situation. Usually the news is announced and the next day we are already developing a calendar, questions and answers between people. Here, they leave us a week in uncertainty. Anyone wants to be supportive and invent demonstrations, sittings, and so on. We must run, inform again and misinformed whether some are using the misfortune of others for their image or otherwise. We must regain control of this discontent of the workers. This situation without news for a week creates a lot of problems in the company and the nervousness is due in particular to this. We don't have an interlocutor. The management still hasn't told us who we were going to discuss with. The only message received from management told us that "if we are nice, if we respect what we have to do, if we break nothing, if we deliver the customers well, they will pay the notice". It's the only word that's received from management, which is ignoble. I wouldn't want to work in Grenoble. We gave them a piece of Caterpillar Gosselies. But, in fine, Grenoble, in two or three years, will be found too expensive and it will be closed tomorrow. As happened for us in 2013: "Work well, we guarantee employment until 2015." That's what they did: 2015. But on January 1, 2016, we are no longer in 2015. So we never have an absolute guarantee in front of us. The ideal – I will never insist enough – is to give others a chance. Antonio and I spend our time demystifying all the sayings. The C4s will only arrive at the end of Phase 1. You'd have to be stupid to get into this phase, when we haven't found an interlocutor yet. Moreover, if we rush into the questions and answers, we will put our friends out very quickly. Or we start directly with Phase 2, but we need to show ourselves the decent exit doors for our workers. This is not the case at the moment. As far as European funds are concerned, we have experts. Walloon conversion cells work well. I'm touching wood. It proved its worth. We were able to put people back up. Thank you for citing the example of Limburg. I think Charleroi has become aware of its redevelopment in recent years. We lost the coalworks, then the iron and steel industry. We have set up task forces and a strategic committee. We shook our elbows by removing our partisan caps. I believe in Charleroi's redevelopment, but it'll be a long time. I'm sure the Carolos will get there. We've already called our friends in Grenoble. At the international level, we have done what we need to do in terms of communication. Jean-Marc asked for the minutes of the business council on August 25. The workers had received answers to their economic and financial questions. There was no indication of the closure of the site, which took place eight days later. In Doosan, located in Frameries, a letter was received in June - I have a copy for your information - thanking the workers for meeting all the challenges on the site. We were the most beautiful, the greatest, the strongest. "Repose well during the holidays!" In September, they received a letter, but it was their C4. So this is not Caterpillar's own way of acting. Meeting the challenge of Tier 4 does not prevent the receipt of a C4 later. Raoul, you were talking about buying and selling the raw material. At Caterpillar, it has long been called "the sandwich of death". It's very simple: you take the bottom of the sandwich, whose cost you control, and the top. You're in the middle. It is clear that if you increase the purchase prices of raw materials and subsets and reduce the selling price yourself... Both parts of the bread are decided in Geneva where we know very well, we will give you a profit margin or not. The way of not making a profit margin in Belgium was very simple: you increase the prices of raw materials and sub-assemblies, you buy yourself, at a loss, machines. In the middle, there's no butter, no meat, no anything! The sandwich of death has existed for ages at Caterpillar. There will be solutions, but there will be 2,200. There won't be an identical solution for everyone. Potentially, we will try to put people back up together, maybe with the same techniques, but maybe some will want to become electricians, other masons. We have tools to give every worker the chance. I remember a boy from Carsid's house whose hobby was flying drones. He entered the railroads and with his drones, inspects the infrastructure and has made his hobby a passion. But it took months and months of mourning, months of retraining and training. It's clear we're already on the ball with the Forem. We will need help in this type of training and tools like TechnoCampus. Yes, we had guarantees in 2013. But so do they. A five-year social peace has been signed. It was historic at Caterpillar. It is one of the only companies where a social peace has been signed on the basis of two negotiations: national and sectoral interprofessional agreement. We went beyond national social peace. They also had this in their hands. In Germany, Holland, France, there are examples near us to make notice in Belgium much more expensive. What I really care about is the disinvestment we have made in social conciliators. I place myself in people that I may point at because I feel like a citizen like everyone else. When I started my career, more than twenty years ago, as a permanent union, at the slightest problem we questioned our colleagues in Agoria, but also a social conciliator who came to do prevention. We didn't find ourselves downstream, but upstream. We were talking about man to man and trying to find solutions. We could prevent dangers. Today, unfortunately, when we need a social conciliator, we have to wait six months because the unfortunate man's agenda is filled. We have deinvested a wonderful job whose purpose is to ensure that everyone lives in peace. We'd like to have an interlocutor, we don't have one yet. This is the point of the lack of leadership and it is clear that today, Mr Hanssens told us that there is nothing in his pocket to negotiate, that he will respect the law, just the law. I still want to make a parallel with 2013. When Antonio and I were facing a restructuring in 2013, we were twice as numerous, with a company that was going to take over. The weight of negotiation is still simpler when you are twice as numerous and you know that the company has to restart. There are twice as many of us here and we know that the company will not restart. Therefore, we are much less strong in the union response since, apparently, according to management, there is no favourable outcome in order to find work on the Caterpillar site. Violence. It's clear we're not in a Bisounour world. When you face this kind of phenomenon, there are some who sit down, sometimes the toughest, the biggest, the strongest, and weeping, and sometimes the smallest, who never say anything, who take action. It's a miracle every day that nothing happens at Caterpillar. Coluche always said, "In a group of people, there's 10% of assholes." At Caterpillar, if I follow the logic, there are about 200 cons who could commit abuses tomorrow and touch directions that are incompetent in my eyes to manage this kind of phenomenon. We don't leave people for a week without answering their questions and we don't leave people alone, delivered to themselves. Check it out, when a machine is finished at Caterpillar, in theory it's sold, so it doesn't belong to Caterpillar anymore. I would be curious to see if a bailiff comes to Caterpillar, what are his rights or not? I'll explain. The only war treasure we have at Caterpillar's is the finished machines. If the machines are finished but not sold, they belong to Caterpillar. If they are sold, they no longer belong to Caterpillar. We had the joke in Couvin at Efel, where we had told ourselves that we were going to keep all the stock as war treasure during the negotiation but bailiffs came with proof that the stock no longer belonged to them. So we had to let the stock go. I would be curious to see the reaction at this level, to check well, if tomorrow – unfortunately I do not hope – the conflict had to get bogged down and that the machines did not come out of Caterpillar, with a battery of bailiffs and lawyers, what will be the reaction of everyone. It is clear that there is a lot to be done at European level too, since the Juncker plan foresees 20% industrialization. I hear that often, but we don't see much coming. Here too, one of the solutions to multinationals will be Europe. You're asking me if the figure of 7,000 is correct. This is difficult to calculate because a large number of subcontractors depend 100% on Caterpillar and they are taken into account. But others have only 10 or 20% of their turnover from Caterpillar. They are rare because Caterpillar demanded such speed and speed of execution that few places were left for other customers. We believe that the figure of 7,000 is correct. As far as the reasons are concerned, the subject is difficult to work because there is none except overcapacity. We are neither too expensive nor too slow, no less educated than others, we have all the green lights, we generate profits and, despite everything, we close! It is impossible to have a debate on this subject with Mr Polutnik. Let's take the Sonaca as an example. Magnificent company that to keep head out of the water has gone subcontracting in Romania. I like this example because tomorrow we may be discussing it again here because unfortunately the company could close. Mr Delvaux, director of the Sonaca in Romania, does not hide from comparing cost prices on either side, and rightly so. If you want to stay alive, you have to watch out for your future. Today, it works. But how long will we be able to hold? In this case, we are upstream and not downstream. This is a small example and I would like to receive answers to this question. Sonaca is a fine example of high technology with more than efficient workers. I am curious to see what follow-up will be given to him. As far as layoffs are concerned, it's a bit like the Loch Ness monster: when it appears, we talk about it and when it disappears in the water, we don't talk about it anymore. With every big restructuring, the media are talking about what forces us to meet and discuss with each other, but when are we going to fish this monster? If we do nothing, it is clear that it will reappear again. As far as the Renault law is concerned, it must be clearly adapted. Why not put in place some kind of good conduct bulletin? We need to help companies, make companies come, make themselves sexy for multinationals. But, in my opinion, when a multinational unilaterally decides to leave, it deserves a newsletter. If the rights and duties are properly fulfilled, a positive bulletin will be issued. But if, in the end, as is the case today, the Belgian State, the workers and the social sector are vampirized, then it will have to be added. The analysis must be done. I conclude with a statement made by a worker in business council in 2013. He is a worker who says: "By limiting the establishment of Gosselies to the European market, the management plan will result in a total shutdown in two years' time." This is notified in a minutes of the Management Board. We were there in the news. I would point out that a company council in Belgium is a place of information; it is not a place of decision. Maybe we'll have to move here too. Let us not only look at Europe. In Belgian laws, a works council is a place of information and not a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u40	Thank you, Mr Hoslet, for your detailed answers, but in a difficult context. I invite Mr Bougard to give his reactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u41	Mr President, a lot has been said and I will try not to repeat what my colleagues have said, quite rightly. A worker told me a few hours ago: "We were so good in terms of flexibility and effort, etc., that on some machines the cost price was lower than that of Chinese production." When we talk about relocation on Grenoble, labour costs, etc., we are not at all in this case. I have heard a lot of reflection on both sides of politics. Unfortunately, we trade unionists, situations like this, on a smaller scale, of course, we have known for years. My first picket was at Mercury's in Petit-Rechain. We have seen others such as the Colgate Research Centre, which employed researchers, people with extraordinary revenues and discounts, which closed. It is a mechanism that we know and about which we alert policies. But when the scale is smaller, the sacrosanct union that you manifest here does not come true. I'm not a lawyer. If one appoints an agent to check this or that, who will bear the cost? I ask the question, but I don't know the answer. Ms. Fonck had the merit of asking a few more specific questions. So it's a little easier for me to answer her. You mentioned a current wave of layoffs, indicating that this may be a reaction to the rising age of the CCB (unemployment scheme with business supplement) in 2017. You mentioned a cost problem. I don't think that's the case. RCC costs the company a lot. It's an opportunity: we're going to fire more easily now than in 2017. You asked if a social conciliator should be appointed. I'm reacting out loud, because we didn't agree. Why not? But its interest in the present situation would be precisely, since there is no provision for it, to mobilise its strength and power to bring together in an informal place the social partners of the companies concerned by the Caterpillar decision. This would perhaps be interesting, so that the subcontractors to varying degrees, who will experience a situation almost as catastrophic as Caterpillar or economic unemployment, are associated with reflection as well as with information that can circulate on both sides. I was asked about the commitments that employers can make when concluding a social pact following restructuring. As trade unionists, we would like to see them at the end of the conventions. Unfortunately, it's like everywhere. If you don't sanction non-compliance, it's not worth much. If we have succeeded, not necessarily at Caterpillar, but in other companies, in obtaining job guarantees, I do not remember that we have succeeded in having sanctions against the employer who would not respect his commitment to employment. To involve the social partners in taxation, why not? We would already like to be involved in discussions that really relate to our core business, the work, before being associated with other elements. Finally, I come to the reimbursement of the aid granted. You can imagine that. Nobody asked what Caterpillar's decision was going to cost us in the future. We're talking about RCC, there's a lot of young people who are going to be laid off... we all hope that if they're laid off, they'll get back to work quickly. You know as well as I do that some people are going to stay on the tile. What is this decision going to cost the Belgian State? What about the responsibility of the company in relation to an act which harms the finances of the State which will have to intervene in order to compensate workers for unemployment or RCC on the party responsible for social security? Finally, in the area of CCR, could we reduce and take action? I want to answer like my colleagues, the lowest is the best! If we could start again on the same basis as in 2013, it would not be bad already. I remember the case of Sabena's bankruptcy. Mrs Onkelinx was then Minister of Employment. It was very fast to say, "We don't chip and the pre-board is 50 years old." It was November 7, 2000 or 2001. The policy can therefore intervene and take measures very quickly to reassure the workers if necessary. With regard to the revision of the Renault law, it is clear that this law has its origin in the desire to put a stamp between the moment when the employer makes a decision or presents its decision as an intention and the time when the worker will obtain his C4. During the layoffs at Renault, it was decided that it was unacceptable for people to receive their notice or C4 without being notified, etc., overnight. To my knowledge, there is a company where, at some point, management said that it was going, that it was storing its copy, that it was going to start over as if nothing were going to happen, it was in InBev. There have probably been others, where there have been improvements. The buffer time must remain. Trade union organisations manage the buffer with the sensitivity of workers on the spot. Sometimes workers want to move to Phase 2; often employers don't want to discuss Phase 2 when we're in Phase 1. I am sorry that I was unable to answer all the questions and thank you for your interest in the cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u42	Gentlemen, we are coming to the end of this exchange. I would like, together with my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne and on behalf of all of us, to thank you for the time you have devoted to us, but also for the testimony, the speeches and the answers you have given. I would like to stress the quality of the debates, the quality of the listening and the attention of everyone, after almost four hours of debate and experience. It doesn't always happen that way after such a time. Everyone was very attentive to all the elements exposed. If I have to keep a lead, I would say that there is a message coming from all the groups that have spoken. It is a message of support and solidarity towards the workers of the company. If you wish, I invite you to pass it on. Anyway, I think it's clear. We talked about the sacred union of politics, the different levels of power. I believe that there is a sincere desire to get around the table, all levels combined and all trends combined to negotiate, to seek a balance of forces, to try to find ways of reconversion of the site at least. Colleagues have indicated that in the case of Audi, it worked; in the case of Genk, it did not work in any case in terms of maintaining employment. In any case, it is necessary to unite all efforts and wills in order to achieve this. In addition to this unanimism, I believe that there are political choices. Some colleagues have referred to dossiers, and we will have to put them back on the table and talk about them again in the near future. We talked about the Renault law, the right to information, pre-pension, etc. We'll be called to talk about it again. This was just a first step. As I said at the outset, I am confident that today's discussions will feed into the debate that we will have next Thursday with the government, which will be only a second step. We came to the end of this meeting. We heard the House members' demand for a leadership presence for a future exchange. We will take an initiative on this. We will see what the result will be, but we have at least heard the demand for this presence. We obviously don't have all the answers to all the questions today, given the absence of management. Ladies and gentlemen, the next step is a topical debate on this subject on Thursday afternoon. Thank you all again. Good job! I thought I had the word of the end... Mr. Massin?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u43	I can hear you well, but I would also like to clarify things for Thursday's debate. A topical debate means three minutes per group. The government's responding. We have a line. Mr Nollet is right, some questions have been asked. Will they be joined in the debate or not? On the other hand, many questions have been put on the table here today. I would like to repeat them next week, but I would like to know what the government's action plan is. The questions are specific. It does not take three weeks to think, to give a clear answer to the question whether for the age of pre-pension, we go down to 52 years or not. I would therefore like to know how you and your colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne on the debate we will have next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u44	Indeed, questions are being tabled. Other groups can still file. The idea is to have answers to these questions on Thursday afternoon. So we are not talking about a period of fifteen days. The idea was to extend these questions to a topical debate between the two committees, as it is now. I do not think that we have limited the speaking time of colleagues to three minutes. If we look at the Rules of Procedure in the strict sense, the current debate is limited in time, but our intention, as democrats, is to give colleagues time to speak. The organizational arrangements for Thursday have not yet been discussed, but it has been noted that questions have been asked. The will is that colleagues can ask their questions and have answers from the government on Thursday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u45	Mr President, just for the organisation and so that you can then consult with Mr. Van Quickenborne, I would just like to see respect for those who have tabled their question in time, thinking that it was today; in fact, initially it was today that the minister responded. That you then complete these questions so that there is a balance, no concern, but at the very least we should respect the questions of those who have complied with the Rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic483x.u46	There is no question of evincing those who have asked their questions. They will be part of the debate. Now I'll see with my colleague how we organize things for Thursday. A big thank you to everyone. Good work to each and thanks again to our three guests.
