ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u2	Colleagues, I have received a motion from the opposition parties gathered on the basis of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure requesting the presence of Secretary of State De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u3	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to speak on the absence of Secretary of State Pieter De Crem. I understand that this has led to a number of legitimate questions from Parliament. I would like to point out some elements. I have indeed been informed that Secretary of State Pieter De Crem would be regularly in the United States for a few weeks as part of a curriculum related to his skills. I also understood that he had sent a letter, only two days ago, to Parliament indicating that he would be absent until 27 October. I don't think that's right. That is why I immediately contacted him when I was informed of this data and asked him to return. In particular, he will be present before the beginning of the parliamentary year. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I will not fail to remind all members of the government of their duty of availability in relation to Parliament. I think the rules are clear. If they were not, we are, of course, available in the Conference of Presidents to discuss with Parliament and draw conclusions from this situation which I regret with the whole of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u4	Prime Minister, I welcome your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister. Once is not customary. It is true that we were shocked by the announcement of the absence of Secretary of State De Crem until the end of October; he is not at the disposal of Parliament for private reasons. Like most members of this assembly, what I like in my political office is the debate of ideas, action, the choice of means to achieve an ideal. This is not a question of anyone. Since the beginning of this Parliament, you have never heard of Mr. De Crem, for several reasons. First of all, he's a person I respect. Moreover, in my personal capacity, I find that the fate assigned to him has nothing to do with what can be called Christian charity, if one considers that as Deputy Prime Minister, he has become Secretary of State without competence as far as regionalized competences are concerned. That is why I have never mentioned the issue. But above all, I believe that whatever function we have, we can make our contribution to the public good. We can fight for the benefit of people regardless of the skill we have. However, I was extremely shocked to learn that he was no longer even available to parliament for a question, for an inquiry, for a check, that he was no longer even available to participate in a trip organized with the Royal House, for the simple reason that he was taking classes at Harvard, it seems to me. We're overreacting here. The constitutional framework provided for in articles 100 and 101 of the Constitution is no longer in place. These are the reasons why I would like to thank the government in the person of the Prime Minister for reminding him of his obligations to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move on to the oral questions, which are, of course, more important. For example, questions about ING and the incident in Schaarbeek are on the agenda. The motion has actually gone without object. Mr Calvo, if you would like the floor, I am happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u7	Prime Minister, it is our duty not only to criticise, but also to emphasise the positive moments. Prime Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your statement. There is only one place for a Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, namely here in Parliament or on the side of our Belgian companies abroad. To be honest, I regret that it has come to this point that Mr Hellings and Mr De Vriendt from our group have had to go over that. The fact that Mr De Crem wasn't working can't be done in front of Parliament, not in front of companies, nor in front of you as Prime Minister. I should like to take this opportunity to stress that in the past Mr De Crem did not want to give answers to parliamentary questions from colleagues from our group on arms exports to Saudi Arabia, for example, but one of the few issues within his competence. So there is work to be done in this area too. Finally, especially at this time when many Belgian companies are in difficulty and many employees are faced with bad news, Mr De Crem should know that it is not his job to wear off his pants at a university, although I am a fan of lifelong learning. His role today is to run the slippers from under his skin for Belgian jobs, for more exports and more jobs. That's his assignment today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u8	Mr President, I certainly do not blame Minister De Crem, whom I also appreciate. In essence, if it has nothing to do in the current context, it is obviously better for it to make this time useful, for example by training itself. However, Prime Minister, it was said in the press that you knew about it. I've translated it into your validation and endorsement of the Secretary of State's decision. The latter nevertheless committed an indelicacy, since he could be accused of not having considered fit to warn the parliament of his American getaway. He did it a little late, since he did it yesterday. Because, Prime Minister, if I may, what are you asking the public? You ask the population to work more, to be much more flexible, to be able, the day before, to change its agenda for the next day. At the very least, you could force your government to do what you want to impose on the population, and even more so today, for two reasons. You're looking for 4 billion euros to stop the abyss of your budget. The Secretary of State is also in the United States. Caterpillar's horrible affair has just struck all minds. The bosses are there, in the United States, they even send back from far away and have no interest, no attention for small Belgium. Mr. De Crem could, at the very least, join, in what he is doing in the United States, a political action for Belgium as Secretary of State. I conclude by saying that policies must behave irreproachably. To invest, when you are a minister, is to invest 100% for all Belgians. Prime Minister, it is your responsibility to ensure that each of your government's ministers is 100% committed to the many challenges that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u9	The problem has been solved, I believe. Mrs. Kitir?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u10	Prime Minister, I have missed part of this discussion, but it seems that you have been congratulated for calling Mr De Crem back. Which makes no more than sense. My speech is in line with that of the previous speakers. We must stop pretending that we in this House are allowed to do things that other people outside are not allowed to do. That's a tough sentence, but I'll explain it. If an employee wants to study during his work to improve himself, to make himself more flexible, to make himself more resilient to the labour market, he must first ask his employer. He can't just do it when he wants to, he has to abide by the time-credit rules. If a secretary of state simply starts studying under work, and does not feel called to take responsibility here, it is therefore below all levels. You were aware, Prime Minister. Because otherwise he wouldn't have gone. I find it very sad that you gave him the permission in the first instance, but it is to your credit that you come back to your words and realize that this is a wrong signal to the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, just a moment, I have given the floor to the authors of the motion, as it should be. I believe that the motion has actually become a matter of no concern and that we can therefore close the debate here, with my apologies, and proceed to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you not only of the Rules of Procedure, but also of a point made at the Conference of Presidents last week. We must adapt and apply the Rules of Procedure: two minutes for the question and the answer; one minute for the reply. And we listen to the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u14	Mr President, the time limit for the question is two minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u15	Yes, of course! And interruptions are not taken into account within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u16	[[Mr President, I have heard your request.]] I'll try not to exceed two minutes. Prime Minister, it's the umpteenth time that I appear before you after these various announcements: Caterpillar, Axa, Douwe Egberts,... Today, it's ING that announces 3,000 fewer people, the dismissal of 1,700 people, etc. With excuses, it seems, in the head of the management: regulation of the sector, Basel III, low interest rates, bank tax, etc. It looks like they're gobbled! Now, imagine, it's no less than $7 billion that has been distributed to shareholders. It is the bank that places profit clearly before the human. It is for me the fruit of cynical liberalism, unbridled economic liberalism. We cannot accept this dismissal of 3,000 people, while ING distributes 7 billion euros to shareholders. Your reaction, Prime Minister, was simply to say that the bank must shoulder its responsibilities. We're expecting more from a prime minister! More than one government is expected to assume its responsibilities, to take measures to protect workers and to avoid such redundancies and to ensure that they do not happen again. I've been coming here before you for several weeks, asking for firm commitments. This was done against Caterpillar. This is now being done with regard to ING. We have tabled legislation, among other things, to avoid redundancies in stock exchanges, to strengthen the Renault procedure and to give workers a right of information and alert. I know that a proposal is before the Group of Ten. Today, Prime Minister, we need these commitments and not barain. They really need to be here. The bank has to take responsibility. The government too! You say: "Never again!" Show him, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u17	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 7.2 billion euros of dividends in 10 years and 1 billion euros of profits in 2015, in return, the ceo received 28 % of wages, on top of the 1.6 million euros he already earned. Last year, the Belgian ceo thanked its employees for their efforts and determination. Today ING is thanking its staff. 3 500 jobs are deleted. First thank the staff and then cold-heartedly discard it, and that in a fingernip. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I find it vengeful that a company deals with its most valuable capital in this way. As if there has never been a banking crisis, as if all of us together, the politicians and the people, had to save the big system banks unsolicited when they threatened to capse because of their great profit appetite. The same profit appetite has been returned from never before at ING's cep, Ralph Hammers. That's vengeful. Prime Minister, this is not the first restructuring story and it may not be the last one, but it may be the last one that shamelessly puts profit policy above human capital. Politics and society can and must fight against this, not by reducing the damage afterwards, but by preventing it as much as possible. So let us try to prevent such scenarios to the maximum in the future, by already anticipating the digitisation of the labour market, Mr Peeters, by reforming the banking tax so that it becomes fairer and more focused on risk derivatives, and by reviewing the low interest rate policy with the ECB. If these firings are still going on, then it's up to us to show our teeth. Make tax support dependent on job creation and job retention, so that they can also be recovered in the event of breach of contract. Ensure that commitment to results, so that tax support is not converted into dividends, but invested in our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u18	Prime Minister, social vandalism! I have no other words to describe what was done by Caterpillar, Axa, and so many others, including, today, ING, which eliminates more than 3,000 jobs. And what are you doing, Prime Minister? What is the government doing? So far, nothing! I don't see anything coming, except that you mentioned a problem of labour costs and corporate tax. So, you'd like to give even more gifts to those who show that despite all these gifts, they're hugely licencing. ING has paid 12% of taxes over the last ten years. Among the various reasons put forward by the bank are digitalisation. It is true that this phenomenon exists, and that it creates productivity gains for ING. But who took advantage of it? Again, it's the bank, the management, and it's the shareholders of the bank. They made 10 billion profits over ten years, of which 7 billion were distributed in the form of dividends. This can be seen as an essential issue: it is the question of sharing working time. Sharing working time allows both a solution to the challenges of the 21st century, in particular by responding to the needs for quality of life and the problem of burn out and both to save jobs. For ING, for example, going from 35 hours a week to 30 hours a week would save 1,000 jobs. The banking sector is an excellent pioneer candidate for the 30-hour week, as the benefits are particularly important and productivity gains due to digitalisation can be measured fairly easily. My questions are twofold. Firstly, in the immediate future, what are you going to do to force ING to reverse its decision to remove 3,000 jobs? Secondly, are you going to finally floor on a sharing of working time, rather than always coming with these gifts to the boss, with those old recipes that, you see day after day, do not work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, yes, there is cynicism! There is cynicism in the decision of a massive dismissal by the governing bodies of ING! There may be even more cynicism in how this decision was communicated and in how management tried to justify it! This calls on us and obliges the political authorities to react in a way that is appropriate to the development of this economic sector. A first remark and a first request. This development shows that the loss of Belgian anchor for a number of large companies and the often renunciation by successive governments of maintaining State representation in the capital of a number of companies certainly leads the managements of these companies to have more free hands in order to carry out brutally uncoordinated redundancies. Prime Minister, do you therefore make a commitment not to sell the shares of the Belgian State in Belfius or in Belgacom during your budgetary work? This is an important orientation! Secondly, it is not always possible to ask the world of work for flexibility, adaptation and the ability to accept changes in the labour market if there is not a return on the part of the employers as to how to manage redundancies, when circumstances warrant and when they are established. I believe that a major development must be reflected in our social law, namely the obligation to link any form of dismissal, the reclassification of staff and the training of staff to be reclassified. In addition to the amount of compensatory compensation at notice or the calculation of notice, there should be a legal obligation, a fortiori for companies with significant profit shares, to allocate a share of their profits to the support of the staff to be reclassified. This is a colossal task to be set up, possibly with heavy financial penalties for non-compliance with these commitments. Prime Minister, are you ready to work on this assumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are now eight years after the banking crisis. This week it was announced that jobs would be lost, more than 3 000. Fathers, mothers, single parents who came home with one question: how do we bring bread back on the shelf? That's shocking, Prime Minister. The taxpayers put billions in a rescue plan, but that was not enough. Have the banks done so badly? Are the banks hung over like that? Haven't the workers tried hard enough? Or were the employees not flexible enough? Prime Minister, the answer is four times no. The bank has made a profit of EUR 7 billion in recent years. And the employees have done their best. They were very flexible. In the meantime, we know that for this government, shareholders are more central to the economy; more central than employees, consumers or vulnerable savers. Prime Minister, Febelfin and ING sent you a letter this summer saying that they had problems and that redundancies would follow if nothing changed. Your government had been notified, Prime Minister. What did you actually do for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u21	Prime Minister, it is indeed a black week in the banking and insurance sector, especially for ING's affected employees and Record Bank. My fellow Members have already referred to it. Thousands of jobs disappear. Lots of naked layoffs, too. That's really not good news. Moreover, many independent office holders will also be affected in their network. They too have people on the payroll. They're not on ING's payroll, but they're in the bathtub. It is no surprise that there will be reorganisations in this sector. Dark clouds have been around for a long time. Digitisation is a trend that cannot be stopped. We have a bank office per 1 600 inhabitants, where it is a bank office per 12 000 inhabitants in the Netherlands. One must not be a great mathematician to know that this will change. Of course, the ECB's low interest rate policy is not helping at all. We can all try to hold on cramped and say that it is a shame of the bank. Yeah, the bank has to fulfill all its obligations. Yeah, we all have to find a solution. That solution will, however, mainly consist of the fact that we are going to look for jobs outside the sector for those people. As in Limburg, we must retrain people at Ford Genk. In Limburg there are more jobs today than before the closure of Ford Genk. That is something we must achieve in this sector too. These are people who all have good skills and who also have a lot of opportunities outside the banking sector on the job market. That is what we need to do. Of course, that's not the end of the story. ING must, of course, fulfil all its obligations. They must help the end-of-life workers where necessary and also pay attention to the independent network they have. For the future, we may need to pay more attention to this, because this trend will continue. Mr Peeters knows about this. We have already talked about this. Today ING can ask the servants to become self-employed, to take over an agency and then suddenly impose additional obligations so that it can no longer be strong and one is of the payroll without compensation. Prime Minister, what will you do to guide these workers to a new job? Is there retraining and a concrete plan in this? Will attention also be paid to independent office holders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u22	Prime Minister, allow me to express our full support to the people concerned and to their families who are affected by this social earthquake, with both brutality in the announcement but brutality still today when we read this e-mail addressed to the staff: "You are dismissed and in addition, you cannot complain!" Prime Minister, the first striking thing is to know what your government did upstream. Have you or one of your ministers or cabinets been warned? I quote your Minister of Employment: "What happened, we predicted, and it is obviously a shame." What did you achieve upstream? What steps have you taken? What are the meetings you have organized? Second strikingly, you met with the unions and management. It is normal for you here to give us the explanations that the management of ING has been able to give you, all the more so in the context we know, since billions of euros have been repatriated to the Netherlands on the back of workers who have been laid off in Belgium. Did ING management give you a commitment to try to save every job that could be? Will the management of ING assume all its responsibilities in relation to the future and the fact that these people can return to work? The third element concerns the banking sector more broadly. Mr Minister for Employment, I would like to remind you again of your remarks. You do not rule out other banks probably doing the same thing as ING. This morning, Crelan Bank announced that it was also preparing to lay off staff. It is true that it is a sector that is now undergoing digital change. We must be able to take a wide range of economic and social measures to accompany this digital development. What are you going to do about it? What steps have been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to join the remarks made by Mrs Fonck. All our thoughts are obviously directed towards families, who are experiencing a real tragedy that we must denounce very clearly. The entire population was outraged by this announcement and took a slap, which was inflicted by a leadership that totally disrespects its staff. Prime Minister, this is obviously unacceptable. It is a lack of ethics, ethics and, above all, respect. This lack of respect is all the more evident in a sector that has been so helped by our fellow citizens. I do not go back to what has already been said: the 7 billion transferred to the mother house and the massacre in terms of employment. But my group, Mr Prime Minister, first of all welcomes the reactivity that has been yours at the start of this week, since you have taken matters into your own hands by meeting with the unions and staff representatives, while also joining your approach with the regional ministers-presidents. We are of course calling for ING to take responsibility for its actions and their consequences as a follow-up to this action. Tomorrow, a meeting will be held in joint commission. We will be able to express these demands. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. During your contacts, you talked about setting up a task force, probably involving the three regions. How will this be done? We would like to know how you will organize and evolve this task force. As has already been mentioned today, the IMF has already raised its concerns about the banking sector - particularly at European level. For its part, the ECB is more serene. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u24	Or the other way around. Whatever it is, it is the considerations that are important. They should not, of course, frighten savers. Prime Minister, have you scheduled working meetings at European level to learn about developments in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday morning many thousands of families received bad news. In the long term, 3 500 jobs, a quarter of the employment at ING, will disappear. Many people face great uncertainty. We can discuss for a long time the reason why a bank is restructuring, but that will make no difference to those people. The fact is that our economy is changing, the fact is that consumers are changing today and companies need to adapt to it. That's right. This digital evolution also offers opportunities. Mr Prime Minister, we have pointed out several times in this House that we export thousands of jobs to the Netherlands every day because we cannot create a framework to get night work in trade. The Minister for Work has made efforts, he has offered a framework to the social partners. We've been almost a year and no job has come out of it. The social partners are gradually failing to do so. I would also like to dwell on the shadow side of digital evolution, and that may surprise some. I am referring in particular to the fate of older workers, the over 50s. I cannot get the impression that restructuring is always the responsibility of older workers. My party does not accept that. For my party, those people aren't written off. My party will not allow the invoice to be passed on to the taxpayer. Well, there's gotta be a different way. In the Netherlands, a system of an age pyramid has been developed, taking into account the reflection of the workforce in a company. That is the proposal that we want to put on the table. In the case of dismissals, competence must be taken into account and not age must be taken into account. Therefore, Prime Minister, my only question is whether you are prepared to consider this proposal and achieve results there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago I was standing here in the context of the restructuring of the insurance sector. I asked the Minister for Labour to be vigilant about the financial sector, because we feared that even worse news was coming for the entire financial sector and not just for the insurance sector. We're three weeks later now. Turns out what? This week ING has brought the bad news. However, we are all concerned that there will be more bad news from the rest of the financial sector. On behalf of my group, I would, of course, first of all like to express our condolences to the many workers affected, not only from ING but from many other institutions in the financial sector. We also call on the government to ensure that the Renault Act is properly handled and that maximum efforts are made to retrain and refocus the affected workers in the financial sector. Secondly, we have heard today from a number of other Members that the financial sector faces huge challenges due to low interest rates and digitalisation. I would therefore like to add today to the debate that we should have a public debate with the financial sector to see where the financial sector is going. After all, it is also a huge challenge for our society to have a vision of the future of the financial sector; secondly, to have a vision of employment in the financial sector; and thirdly, to have an answer to the question of what our society wants in the financial sector. We are all consumers and users of banking and savings. Banking operations have become daily reality in society. In fact, banking operations have become a basic requirement. It is therefore necessary to hold a public debate on the direction society intends to take with the financial sector. After all, my group and I would not like only internet banks to exist and that we would not be able to go to any office. A banking sector must be there for everyone and everyone must be able to live up to society's expectations for the new financial sector. That is why I have the following questions for the government. Firstly, will the government ensure that the staff affected are retrained and reoriented in cooperation with the financial sector, which also has a responsibility? Secondly, will the government, together with the financial sector, contribute to a public debate on the direction we all want to take with the financial sector in the interests of every consumer and user?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u27	Mr President, first of all, I would naturally like to associate myself with what Parliament has said. My first thoughts, my concerns go, as the members have indicated, to all the workers who were struck by this very bad news at the beginning of the week. Everyone can imagine what anxiety, what uncertainty this represents for those who are directly concerned. Two types of questions were asked. On the one hand, there are questions about the government's ability to try to act in a positive way on the DING issue; on the other hand, there are questions about the future of the financial sector with an economy that is evolving and changing. In this context, what is the future of the financial sector? How can we take useful initiatives to try to act in a positive and positive way rather than through events? As far as ING is concerned, of course we are aware that the financial sector is under pressure; that is not a new element. In recent years, everyone has noticed that the overall trend in employment in the financial sector is falling. That's not new information. The government has regular contacts with the various sectors, including Febelfin. When the news came that an important meeting would take place last Monday, we feared that the news would not be good and unfortunately there was indeed bad news. I immediately contacted ING's Belgian management on Monday and, of course, I made a few points during that conversation. Firstly, I have called for responsibility. I share the reasoning. A few years ago, governments and therefore taxpayers gave important support to the financial sector to save the banks. It is therefore crucial that the financial sector takes full responsibility in these circumstances. That is a first point. A second very important point. At the outset, I pleaded with great force that every effort should be made to avoid dismissals by alternatives and, in any case, to reduce, if alternatives are not really possible, the number of dismissals. It is a very strong plea that I want to push forward because I believe that we must give capacity to alternatives. Unfortunately, Caterpillar's recent history has highlighted the situation of the Renault law. I repeat, the Renault Act is a framework. Maybe not a perfect framework, but still a framework with a first and a second phase, initially to get the full information about the motivation: what are the real reasons? Trade unions are right to question whether digitalisation alone justifies such a harsh shock, such a heavy rationalization. That is a legitimate question. I believe that, within the framework of the Renault law, we must receive all the information in relation to this and make it clear on this subject. I would also like to inform you that on the same day, Monday, I decided to hold a meeting with the Ministers-Presidents in the presence of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Employment and all the unions. This meeting was important, I think. It was worthy and constructive despite the very painful shock that the unions had just received. What are the concrete points of action that have been decided with the unions – and I dare the word – in a form of "common front" union-government to fight for each job at ING? The action that has been decided is, of course, to support. Support and expertise of the various ministerial departments of the Länder and of the federal government in the framework of the Renault Act. The trade unions have asked us: "Are you available to support us with financial, economic and legal expertise?" The answer is, of course, yes, we will support the trade unions in this perspective. That's point 1. Furthermore, an interfederal task force, such as Caterpillar, to work efficiently and to be able to conduct good ongoing consultation and dialogue with trade unions. A third important point. The trade unions have asked us whether, as governments, we are prepared, within a few weeks or months, when we are able to propose alternatives, to look at these alternatives with them and to support them in order to protect jobs. We have said yes in principle: we will do so and we will remain in touch to support them in this perspective. We will therefore regularly review the trade unions on this subject and ensure that accompaniment can be organised. That's the situation for ING. As some have said, it is a sector facing structural upheavals: interest rates, pressure in connection with regulatory rules and the question of digitalisation. I think that each of us goes less often to his banking agency and uses his smartphone or tablet more to do his operations. In addition, the Minister for Employment intends to establish a reorientation fund for the future of the sector. I believe that Mr Maingain's comment was made. That makes sense. We must not only act in times of crisis as a result of a decision to rationalize. We must also act with anticipation. How is that possible? Febelfin, the trade unions and the government will have to look at how we can set up such a fund, in the logic of reorientation, of training, with the aim of giving a chance to those whose job is in danger. I conclude by saying that we will continue this dialogue with the trade unions and with Febelfin, in order to identify how we can better support and support the digitalisation process. A question was asked: what did the government do to try to anticipate this type of situation? We will have the opportunity to discuss this again next week, as part of the government statement. But if we are so obsessed with the reforms aimed at ensuring that our country is better armed and equipped with a stronger economy, facing the challenges we face, it is good to try to create tens of thousands of additional jobs, and to ensure that these shocks can be overcome. We want to ensure that when there is bad news like this, we can fight to limit damage and damage, and above all to give the chance and perspective to those who unfortunately should lose a job to find one, if we succeed in creating tens of thousands of additional jobs. It is the challenge, the majority or the opposition, that arises for us. We will continue to take firm action to support job creation. We will ensure that our economy is stronger and better able to respond to the challenges of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u28	Prime Minister, empathy towards workers is the least of all things. But I believe that what workers cannot bear, and especially ING workers, is that a Prime Minister endorses the explanations given by the company which has just distributed 7 billion dividends. No, not everything is the responsibility of digitalisation! No, not everything is due to low interest rates! €7 billion in dividends were distributed, and 3,000 jobs were thrown in the trash. This is not the kind of explanation workers expect. You're talking about reorientation funds. Perhaps that is a point of view in which we should work. Similarly, I would remind you of the investments with the Regions. These put things on the table. I hope I have some statements from you. You're talking about acting firmly, Prime Minister. Three weeks ago, already, about Caterpillar, I asked you the same questions. You don't want any more stock market layoffs. Neither do we! There is a bill on the table: act firmly and ask the majority to vote on it, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a task force to ease the pill and a debate on the future of the banking sector. As far as the latter is concerned, our group has been calling for a reorientation of the morale of the large banks and their shareholders since the banking crisis broke out. I hope that message will finally be taken seriously by the government. Apart from repeating what we already know, Prime Minister, you are very quiet about what you can proactively do before chunks are made. I asked you to make the tax support we provide to large companies dependent on job retention and job creation. You have a means in your hands that allows you to lead instead of walking on the leash. What do you choose? You choose not to say anything and just clean up the rubble. Our group has had enough of that. We have had enough of you giving us a blank cheque every time and having the opportunity to go back and clean up with the people. We've had enough of that. For them, for all workers who have lost their jobs, your answer is inadequate and disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u30	Prime Minister, your blindness is staggering. You're already announcing that on Tuesday, you're coming to present us new gifts to C4 producers. The more they let go, the more gifts you're going to give to these layoffs masters. That's pretty scary! Prime Minister, your model is not working. When are you going to see him? You tell us that the financial sector is under pressure. Under pressure of profit, do you mean? Because every year ING makes a billion profits, 10 billion in ten years. Seven tenths of these profits are distributed in the form of dividends to the parent company. The only pressure I see is that of profit. Your solution: a new task force. Every great social disaster, a task force. But to do what? Where are the sanctions, the threat of punishment that you are going to put in the balance of forces against these multinationals? I can't see anything. I have proposed to you the path of sharing working time, associated with a sharing of wealth. No, nothing. Your solution is as always new gifts to the licensees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u31	Prime Minister, your answer was really half-tone. In your answer, we did not feel a willingness to anticipate the evolution which, in fact, will become more widespread, of the digitalisation of a number of economic activities. I would remind you that Belgium is ranked tenth out of 19 EU states for which figures are available on the share of ICT enterprises in GDP. We are in tenth position, behind Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and other states that have not experienced the same economic development as ours since the Second World War. That is to say, our considerable delay. Serious studies show that we could make giant leaps if there was at last a bold policy of accompaniment to economic development linked to digitisation. Of course, I have heard the announcements of the competent minister. But they're always publicity effects. Concrete measures are not taken, either in terms of training, reclassification of workers from the sectors at risk, or in terms of public investment. Why are we late? Because the public sector is lagging behind in all areas of computerisation and digitalisation, and in a considerable way. Because you have pursued policies of austerity and restriction of public investment in these sectors. This is one of the causes of the weakening of employment in these sectors! This is one of your heavy responsibilities with regard to this evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u32	Prime Minister, you have come here today to explain what you are going to do, but you should have come here to explain what you have already done. You didn't do anything. For more than a year, ING has called for help and sent a signal to Minister Van Overtveldt that there were problems. What did you do with that? Nothing. You didn't do anything with it. Well, Prime Minister, all that tristes here today, I think that's crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Yes, we must make every effort to limit the consequences of the tragedy, ladies and gentlemen. We have to do it all together, in every way possible. As I have already said in my question, we should be looking forward to reorientation. Whether slow or fast, employment in this sector will fall, ladies and gentlemen. That's the way it is. Over the years, many sectors have changed. The banking sector is now also in full swing. No, everything is not just the result of digitalisation. No, everything is not just the result of low interest rates. However, ladies and gentlemen, low interest rates do play a very important role. If we are having the debate on the banking sector here, we support that call, let us start by having the European Central Bank explain its policy here, because that is the cause of many of the problems. Prime Minister, we already support the reform of corporate taxation, because it will effectively increase transparency and improve the economic situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u34	Prime Minister, you are announcing a reorientation fund. In this regard, I would like to be very clear. There is no question of postponing the costs of reorientation related to the DING decision on the others, be it citizens or other companies. Indeed, it is the latter who is responsible for the reorientation and the professional future of all the people she will dismiss. Besides, as weeks go by, I'll see you marri. Each time, you make an additional catastrophic announcement a little with swinging arms. You haven't anticipated for ING. Of which act. Yet you knew it! We will not wait for the announcement of collective redundancies and Renault procedure, week after week, without doing anything. Today, it is not only a question of saying that new jobs must be created, but also of preserving those who exist and can be saved upstream. Indeed, the digital shift requires a whole series of new accompanying policies. However, it is also a source of opportunity for the creation of new jobs. Finally, in my view, this dossier – in my opinion, we will be discussing it again in the coming weeks – also illustrates particularly well the importance of maintaining decision-making centres in Belgium. If this is not the case, interest will continue to move to other countries. And finally, it will be employment in Belgium that will continue to drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u35	Prime Minister, I listened carefully. Your answers show how much you've taken care of this file. I did not appreciate the trial of some with regard to your government. When we look at the figures, we see that there is a transfer of 7 billion in five years. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that three fifths of this transfer was made under the previous government. It is a bit easy today to draw conclusions about a government that has demonstrated, in recent months, its ability to create jobs. We are also counting heavily on him as part of the shift towards new technologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u36	Prime Minister, it was Peter De Keyzer, economist, who told the harsh truth when he said: "There will be jobs in a market economy, but there will always be new ones." I have the impression that certain members of the opposition are always thinking about the first part. I have heard arguments here to make redundancies impossible and even prohibit them. I have heard here pleas to recover state aid, which has since been repaid. All those recipes won't work. That is the truth we must say here in Parliament. So we have to look ahead, not to save yesterday's jobs, because they have disappeared. Besides, I can very well imagine that the same debate was held here decades ago when it was about coal mines. That must have been the exact same debate. What we have to do is not look at the past, but look forward. We need to look forward to making tomorrow's jobs possible. The recipes used by the government are the right recipes: reduction of burdens and greater flexibility, because that is how our economy will grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u37	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. We support the government's initiative to help establish a refocusing fund. Yes, we must make absolute and maximum efforts to refocus and protect workers. I see that you are in favour of working with the sector on a vision for the future. I would like to reiterate my call for this to be looked at very widely, to reflect on the future of the financial sector in our country and the challenges it faces, and, where possible, to support the sector. I also hope that you will involve consumers in drawing up the vision for the financial sector, so that the debate also takes into account what we as a society want with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u38	Mr President, Minister, yesterday in Schaerbeek, two policemen were stabbed by an isolated man, who had to neutralise them with a bullet in the leg to prevent him from causing more casualties. This event comes within the line of attacks of the same order in Charleroi, during the summer, and in Uccle, not so long ago. This is indicative of an extremely large number of attacks on our police officers. My first thoughts go first and foremost to the victims of these attacks. I salute the courage of the police officers who were assaulted yesterday. As far as the perpetrator of yesterday's attacks is concerned, it is said that he is a radicalised person since 2009 at least and that he was eventually on the OCAM list. This morning, the mayor of Schaerbeek told us that he had not received any information of any kind revealing the radicalisation of this person. I am the interpreter of the mayor who points to the responsibility of successive governments and of this government in particular. He said that the Brussels population had increased by 25 per cent over the past 15 years, but there had been no increase in the number of police officers. In other words, the number of police officers per capita has decreased. This applies to Brussels, but it also applies to certain cities in Flanders and Wallonia which have the same difficulty with terrorism. My questions are very simple. Yes or no, was this person radicalized and included on the AMCO list? How can we explain that the municipality of Schaerbeek has not been informed of this? Finally, how can we act to help municipalities particularly confronted with radicalisation and terrorist threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u39	Mr President, Minister, it does not stop. After Zaventem, Brussels, Charleroi there was now also an attack in Schaerbeek. Police officers have become living targets for Muslim terrorists of all kinds. However, we note that these ticking time bombs, the Muslim extremists, continue to run freely in our country and that there is hardly any coordination between the services. In the meantime, many lists have already been published, such as the OCAD list of 614 people, the ADIV list, the military security list, 60 people, the list of the plan Radicalisation and a separate list of the Syrian fighters themselves. So there appears to be no coordination in this respect. After all we have seen and seen, it is very doubtful whether it is still acceptable for all these people to continue to be at large. We have the opportunity, if we call for a state of emergency, to take all these persons into preventive custody in order to ensure that they no longer pose a permanent risk to our security services and, above all, to the population. We have that chance. Article 15 of the ECHR gives us this possibility if we declare a state of emergency. Is it not now urgently necessary, Minister, that we declare a state of emergency and put all these radicalised Muslims, potential terrorists, under lock and key until we know who they are and what their intentions are, and until they no longer pose a risk to the population and to our security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u40	Mr President, Minister, yesterday's miserable incident is, understandably, another shock wave of unrest among the security services and police forces, not only in Schaerbeek. I hope that it will be clear quickly and that it will be possible to act very adequately with regard to the person concerned. What struck me, Minister, was the speed with which my good colleague, Mr Bernard Clerfayt, mayor of Schaerbeek, felt that there was a problem with the flow of information. If I recall correctly, he said that there would have been no or too little information from the federal police about the person concerned flown to the local police area. That's an old very, an old challenge. He also made the remark, known in the meantime, that there is not enough staff and that there is a need for reinforcement. In short: more police officers in Schaerbeek. Those are two comments I have heard from the competent mayor. Mr. Secretary, you are holding budget discussions. Every day we hear one of the security services calling for and arguing for additional resources and extra staff. I have a very simple question for you. Can the government, apart from additional staff, organise a more efficient insertion of police capacity? In the Brussels-Capital Region, for example, there is no balance between the different police zones. Nor is there a balance between the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region and the outskirts. I therefore call for you to take into account, during the budget check, what Mr Clerfayt is calling for, in particular, an equivalent and proportionate insertion of police capacity, in order to avoid such incidents, which could occur anywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, on behalf of my group, I wanted first of all to condemn in the strongest possible terms the aggression against the two policemen in Schaerbeek and to express our full support for all the police forces, all those women and all those men who are doing very difficult work on the front line. We all know that the current context is particularly complicated. With regard to the assailant, Minister, what can you tell us twenty-four hours after the facts? This morning, the mayor of Schaerbeek said that he had just learned that some federal services had information, but that it would not have been passed on to the local police. Furthermore, it confirms that the person concerned was not on his list of radicalised persons. Could you shed some light on this? Do you confirm this information? Which ones were transferred by the federal services to the local police? Finally, although we do not yet know all the details of yesterday's aggression, I cannot help but question your policy of combating terrorism. Indeed, we really feel like we are witnessing the arrival of a comprehensive security and surveillance TGV. So, no later than noon, we discussed in the Counter-Terrorism Committee the lifting of professional secrecy in the CPAS, which will transform every social worker into a potential police officer. In addition, this summer, traders received a list of recommendations to list their customers based on the products they purchase. Finally, in a few weeks, you will introduce us to the NRP, which consists of a series of provisions for mass surveillance of travellers. What is your vision of the fight against terrorism? Do you really intend to put the eleven million Belgians under surveillance or consider as potential suspects? Is this your conception of a necessary, targeted, effective and proportionate fight against terrorism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u42	Minister, yet another cowardly attack against police officers took place this time in Schaerbeek. We all condemn violence, certainly violence against policemen, who engage in a dangerous occupation. Violence against policemen is completely illegal. Each such event raises certain questions, calls for more security for the police, more resources and more people. In that context, there was also a call from Mayor Clerfayt van Schaerbeek. Of course, we all have to do everything we can to protect the police, but I also think that everyone at his level should exhaust all possibilities to do so. Everyone, both federally and locally, must assume all their responsibilities. The federal government has already done a lot, in addition to the usual amounts, the extra 400 million euros and the Channel Plan. In the long run, the question arises as to what needs to be done in order to provide more protection. You will probably not know much more about the investigation itself, Minister, but what else can happen in the interests of police safety? What is the state of play in the roll-out of the Channel Plan? I have already heard a positive response. Have any other security measures been taken or considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u43	Mr Minister, as my colleagues have indicated, yesterday in Schaerbeek there was a violent attack. It was perpetrated against police officers. Of course, all our support goes to those police officers who have been injured but whose lives have not been put in danger. We also recall our solidarity and support for the police and security forces, which were obviously again attacked on a terrorist level two months after the Charleroi attack. The first elements of the investigation indicate that this individual would be radicalized, but it appears that he was not encoded in the FTF database. As you know, Minister, one of the keys to the fight against terrorism is obviously a better flow of information. The local authorities are part of this process and are involved in this collection and exchange of information, particularly in Brussels under the Canal Plan, which produced positive results in its first phase and which began its second phase on 1 October. In any case, at the local level, local integrated security cells have been set up at the administrative level, which aim precisely to exchange information with the individuals included in the OCAM lists, and this gives quite interesting results. Mr Minister, as far as the information that is essential is concerned, can you first confirm to me that there was information about the perpetrator of the attack on the police and that he considered it radicalised? Was it included in the FTF database? Could you also remind us of the various measures taken to facilitate the exchange of information between the different services, particularly with regard to local authorities? Finally, what is the result today of this greater collaboration in the exchange of information between local and federal actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can speak on behalf of the whole Chamber when I pay tribute not only to the victims who were injured yesterday, but also to the entire police force, which is working on a daily basis, we are often confronted with it for our safety, really at the risk of our own bodies and members. We cannot thank them enough. [[Applause]] That being said, relevant questions have been asked and they deserve an answer. Was this person known to the services? On 19 September, the State Security Service distributed classified information to various services: the OCAM, the Defence Information Service, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. That classified information was about this man, so I can't give it to you. At that time, however, the services felt that it was not a direct danger, either to institutions or to natural persons. Why this information has not flowed to the local level, I still have to investigate the facts of yesterday's events, and I will not fail to inform Parliament about them. Mr Dewinter, you are talking about separate lists. That is just the work that has been done in recent months and the KB in this regard was published in the Belgian Official Journal last Thursday. We now have a dynamic database. All the information is already in place and the database is now managed by the federal police. In the near future, therefore, dynamic information will be introduced into the database and viewed by all OCAD support services, as well as by local police. What I feel is still a gap is how the information can get to the mayor. In this respect, we must look at the security clearance. How can information be provided to the mayors? I therefore believe that we must also provide for a security clearance for the mayors so that they can have the necessary information, where appropriate. As far as the forecasting of resources is concerned, it is a mutual responsibility, both locally and at the federal level. Specifically for Brussels, we have set up the Canal Plan. Mrs Schepmans referred to this, we carried out the evaluation of Phase 1. Are the problems solved? Not at all! Are there any results in the field? More than we thought! The results are huge and we will continue the work. Phase 1 has been evaluated and we will now expand the plan to the other six municipalities. As of 1 October, the planned staffing is in the field. We are increasing the reserves of 180 people specifically for Brussels. We are also planning 185 people for the Judicial Police for this area of the canal. In total, this makes almost 500 additional people for security in Brussels. I hope that the local level will follow in the same proportion. Mr Dewinter, on your question whether we should lock all these people up, the following. Firstly, we are not in a situation of need. Secondly, we live in the rule of law and, fortunately, in a rule of law, we must first commit facts and then be condemned and punished. To reverse that order does not belong to the arsenal of a rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u46	Mr Calvo, you just had your show. Let us now reply and reply. Mr Vanden Burre, all our measures are targeted. We're not going to attack the 11 million people in this country! All our measures are targeted for one purpose only: to control security in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u47	Minister, thank you. In relation to the questions I asked you, you say: one, yes, the person was known to our services and there was classified information. Two, according to this classified information, the person was perhaps radicalized, but, according to the analysis services, not dangerous. As is well known, some of the protagonists of the attacks in Paris or the attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek were considered in the same way. There is a first question about assessing the threat of radicalized individuals. The second question is that there is no information about local authorities. However, local authorities are working on safety, but mainly on prevention. They must be warned upstream to be able, precisely, to do a work around the cores of radicalism to avoid facts like those we have known. So, there was a problem. We will continue with you and with the Minister of Justice, in the Attentats Committee, this particular issue of non-working with local authorities. I mean, it's true that you invested in the Canal Plan. No one goes against this finding. For a municipality like Schaerbeek, which still has 131,000 inhabitants, you know that the Canal Plan is zero police in addition in the first phase and 25 in the second, for the moment. And so what the local authorities say is that with that, while there are more and more difficulties and a very large population growth, there are fewer policemen per capita. This is a crucial problem. I come back to what my colleagues were saying. There is a need to focus much more on measures. In the Committee on Terrorist Attacks, the services, one after another, tell us that additional resources are needed. And then we have to work together and trust the communes. Obviously, we are still far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u48	Minister, you said that the prevention of radicalised Muslims on the various lists is a method that cannot be applied in a rule of law. May I point out that I do not wish to go beyond the rule of law at any time. Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that, if a country calls for and mentions a state of emergency, it may at that time indeed proceed to preventive detention and detention of persons threatening state security. It's perfectly possible. The state of emergency was declared in several European countries, including our neighbour France. Several of your fellow Members, I am thinking of Mr De Roover, have also called for legal alternatives to be found over the last few weeks. I simply note, Minister, that we are currently playing Russian roulette with the lives of our police officers, our military and, by extension, the entire population if we do not lock these people up. Let us indeed work on the state of emergency and put all these Muslim extremists behind bars preventively, where they ultimately belong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. Nevertheless, I have a few things to say. Firstly, the Channel Plan is effectively an ambitious plan, including in terms of the number of actors that need to work together. I have the impression that this cooperation in Molenbeek is positive. I'm witnessing what's happening to us. As I have said on many occasions, safety is very limited if we try to make progress in Molenbeek and make progress in Vilvoorde in terms of the rigorous follow-up of radicalised people, while there is very little movement around these two municipalities. Let that be an encouragement, perhaps even faster than you wish, to extend it to the other Brussels municipalities and Brussels police areas. Secondly, when I hear the information you have announced that you will continue to inform Parliament, I am curious. Nevertheless, I ask the question how it is possible that at the level of the Local Integral Security Cell, where information sharing can happen, the man has disappeared from the picture. The precise question is therefore whether the Local Integrated Safety Cell in Schaarbeek and other municipalities are working. Mr President, I will conclude. Finally, Minister, the number of federal police officers or federally funded police officers varies widely across the different areas of Brussels. Today there are 7,9 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants active in Brussels. In Schaerbeek, it's about 3.2 police officers, less than half. In Molenbeek, even after the reinforcements, they're 2.7 agents. Minister, if you want efficiency in the flow of information and the deployment of police officers, please work on that one structure under the unity of command in our capital. We can be both more economical and more efficient in this area. I hope you're finally gonna let that taboo die.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. It will indeed be necessary to follow closely what has happened, at some point, between the information available to the Sûreté, the OCAM, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the transmission to the local authorities, in particular to the mayor. With regard to the policy of combating terrorism and the different views we have on this subject, I will take a concrete case which is very interesting: the Canal Plan. All my colleagues have talked about it. Since his announcement in the Committee on the Interior – we have also discussed it in other committees – we have been in favour of the principle in the sense of strengthening the local and field police. We had a debate on the areas, but for that strengthening, we told you, "Okay, chick!" For us, the important thing was use. What are we going to do with these means? You have been asked regularly about this. You are saying today that the results are there, that it is great, etc. [[But what do you see today?]] I have the numbers. It can be seen that 12% of Molenbeek's inhabitants had their homes checked, 30% of the NSOs. Is this targeting or widespread suspicion? I'm talking about targeting and efficiency. You go to the home of 12% of the population. Excuse me, but, objectively, it's not targeted. That's the choice you make. I respect that, but don't say that you're targeting your policies because that's not the case. We call for a targeted and effective policy against terrorism. That's not the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u51	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Your answer shows that you are indeed following up the problem and doing everything possible in the interests of the security of our policemen. I would like to thank you for that. I don't give a damn about a case. I regret the reaction of some of my fellow mayors, who I think are moving too fast. I am talking here about Mr Clerfayt and Mr Magnette from Charleroi. There's no denying it. People are asking more and more of the federal government. They may make their men available within the framework of the mortgaged capacity. They now have 55% and 71% respectively. These are figures that are totally irresponsible compared to many other areas in the country, especially compared to the West Flemish that are totally on their gums. I would therefore like to say to some fellow Members: before shooting at the federal government, first look into their own bosom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I still have to reply to my colleague Vanden Burre, who spoke about Molenbeek. Sir, I can assure you that the Canal Plan has produced very positive results. This is a plan that we must therefore pursue, particularly for the benefit of the other municipalities concerned in Brussels. Of course, in the context of a topical question, it is not possible to explain all the results that have been achieved. In any case, as the mayor of Molenbeek, I can assure you that there was no question of targeting the inhabitants, of targeting associations, but of restoring order. It's essential if you want to have a clear vision of your community. That is what we have done, of course - I can assure you - with respect for the citizens. I am sure that the Molenbeek pilot experience will inspire other municipalities. We want to work together. The mayors of the communes concerned with radicalism really want to move forward. This collaboration must exist between police areas, between mayors, but also with the federal level - police or justice. I would like to point out that police reinforcement is essential. But I also believe that the flow of information is extremely important for the success of the fight against terrorism. We must therefore pay particular attention to how it can be done in an active and dynamic way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u53	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, this morning the press reported that secret plans of the Tihange nuclear power plant were circulating on the darknet. Minister, this situation is unbearable. How could these documents be found on this parallel Internet network used by criminals? It is unacceptable to think that Belgium is the worst student in terms of cybersecurity, as evidenced by a report quoted today in the press. It is also intolerable that Electrabel achieves such a bad result in terms of data security and that the AFCN has failed to anticipate in this case, since it announces an audit on this subject only for 2017. However, the flashing lights are red and have been explained in parliament as well as in other places. Gilles de Kerchove, coordinator for the fight against terrorism, told us about the ability of terrorists to attack our facilities from outside. As for Jaak Raes, a State Security Officer, he said his back to the wall and asked for a doubling of his staff. Deputy Prime Minister, can you confirm all the information on this issue in the newspapers? Then, did you show reactivity this morning by meeting with the operators to ask them to take initiatives now? Electrabel must immediately launch an audit on cybersecurity. Finally, do you not find it urgent to act without waiting for 2017? J'attends vos réponses et vos engagements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u54	Mr President, Minister, the audit of Electrabel reveals twenty-six serious shortcomings. Not only are the law and legal prescriptions no longer respected by the company with regard to security and cybersecurity, but, in addition, documents, plans, to be precise, are found, without the knowledge of Electrabel – I insist, and this is reflected in these terms in the relationship – in the hands of subcontractors and subcontractors of subcontractors. Minister, yesterday you were silent. It was Electrabel who spoke. I guess you heard them. First, they confirm the existence of the report. It's important. This report is therefore very real. Secondly, and unfortunately as usual, they minimize and say that everything is fine. They say that their report dates back to 2015 and that now everything is fine and everything is under control. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You saw him in the press this morning. Not everything is under control, not everything is well, since plans of our Tihange nuclear power plant are circulating on the Internet, on the darknet to be precise. You're the Minister of Security. My first question is your assessment of the situation. I ask you not to fall behind the Federal Nuclear Control Agency or Mr. Bens. Moreover, we have not heard the latter. I don't know where he is. I'm asking you what you think, and what you're going to put in place. I have two very specific requests. I would like you to tell the Federal Agency that waiting for 2017 at the earliest to verify what is said is wrong, and that you will give the Agency, in the gallery, here in the House, a tighter time to deal with this matter. In the name of security, you should also ask Electrabel to re-internalize the computer functions. Such things can no longer be relocated or managed by a subcontractor's subcontractor. Minister, the safety of citizens must take precedence over the profitability of Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nollet, I fully agree with your last point. Security is more valuable than anything, but we don't have to mix it up. I will mention three points: audit, plans on darknet and cybersecurity. On cybersecurity, I will be very brief because we regularly conduct an audit, an inspection of computer facilities in our nuclear power plants. I can confirm that nuclear systems are similar systems. So, there's no connection from the nuclear system to the internet. It's unfeasible. Naturally, in the offices there are Wi-Fi facilities but the nuclear site has no Internet connection. The AFCN has the expertise to carry out this control in the area of cybercrime. Now I'm reassured. As far as Electrabel's audit is concerned, let's be clear, it is part of a procedure for approving Electrabel's security system. This procedure, which is based on a royal decree of 2011 specifying all the phases to be covered, takes a few years but is therefore provided for in the royal decree. In accordance with points 14 and 15 of that procedure, Electrabel conducted an internal audit. As in each audit, there are points to be improved and Electrabel is obliged to repair them because the AFCN is currently inspecting these points. Before November 1 of this year, this investigation must be conducted by the AFCN in accordance with the procedure. This is the next step in this procedure to have the system recognized. In this procedure, it is clear that if AFCN pointed out aspects that would not be in order, we would put Electrabel under pressure to regularize them. If there are things to improve, Electrabel will receive some time to do so. With this procedure and deadline, we arrive at May 2017. Finally, with regard to the plans that would be on the darknet, I do not have access to the darknet, so I asked the AFCN and the Cybersecurity Centre to conduct a joint investigation. At the moment, I have no other information on this very important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u56	Minister, your answers are only half satisfactory with regard to the action. We can't wait. It is clear to us that cybersecurity and the protection of power plants are absolute emergencies! This is where priority must be given to the safety of citizens. In addition, action must be taken now. I hear your schedule. I think it is necessary to ask Electrabel to increase the pace in order to arrive at a plan that guarantees the total safety of the installations. This somewhat nonchalant attitude is unpleasant. The operator and the AFCN must be able to act and demonstrate the safety of the facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u57	Minister, we are used to speaking frankly in committee and there is no reason not to do so here. I take note of your repeated commitment to the fact that security is paramount. We will have to keep this commitment for the long term – we will return to it in committee. You mentioned three points. First, the federal agency must have completed its report by November 1. Bravo! But why did the official communiqué of the Federal Agency say yesterday that it planned inspections on this topic from 2017? You'll have to explain it to me! Don't tell me it's still a communication problem at the Agency! But what's Mr. Bens doing? You say today that it will be for November and they say that there will be nothing before 2017! Let me be clear, I am pleased with your answer on this part. But why does the Agency report that there will be nothing until 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u58	Under the procedure, an inspection of the AFCN is currently under way. Electrabel will then have the opportunity to improve on the basis of the Agency's remarks. That's the difference. This is the longest procedure. We need to figure out what phase we're in right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u59	Look at the title! The Agency will begin its controls in 2017. But you say it's in progress. This will have to be reframed, but this is not the most important part. You're launching an investigation on the darknet. Of which act. We will of course meet in committee for the answers on this aspect. Finally, Minister, I would like to be sure of what you have said here in the gallery. I would like you to be sure that there is indeed no connection with the outside and the heart of nuclear power plants. If you said it here, it's because you're enlisting. I will check this with you and we will discuss it again in committee. I would like to be sure that there is no risk at this level. At this point, I do not have all my certainty, but I take note of your words here. We'll work on it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u60	Madam Secretary, the CM's top man said this morning that we need to radically reform healthcare. That is how we get to the debate we have been having with you in Parliament over the last few weeks. One in five hospitals is in red today. We're in the process of reforming hospital funding, your first yard. We read yesterday in the press that there is a very high pressure on our nurses. We don't have enough nurses on the patient's bed. You are in the process of reforming the health professions. Today we see in the media that the differences in doctor's wages are currently very high. We often speak of a pay strain of four to six times more. Gross wages are mentioned from EUR 150 000 to EUR 600 000. Madam Secretary, your third yard is the reform of doctors' wages. I followed the discussion in the media today. I don't mean to be here today. You don't. I've seen others today do. That's not my intention. I can only observe that in the last 20 years each government has included the re-evaluation of the nomenclature in its government programme. Much further than a council to look at this or a committee has not been touched. You too, Madam Secretary, have put academics to work to investigate how we can objectify this. Let me be very clear, CD&V thinks doctors do wonderful work. We also believe that doctors should be properly compensated for this. Today, however, we find certain amounts too high and, above all, the differences between them are far too great. It is clear to us that there can only be a global reform of our health care if this yard is completed. When are you coming up with a proposal to reform doctors' wages as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u61	Mrs Muylle, I would like to correct something first. At Belga it said that it was about the re-enrichment of the nomenclature, with double r. That is a strategic error, it is a question of reviewing the nomenclature. That's important to know, isn't it? Within the framework defined by the general council of the RIZIV budget, the doctor's fees are determined by what is called the Medicomut, the National Committee of Doctors-Sickness Funds. The sickness funds are jointly represented there and therefore decide on these matters. The nature of the provision of nomenclature can indeed be very different and this explains why there are also certain differences in fees. I would like to give an example of a purely intellectual act, for example in the case of children's psychiatrists in relation to a more technical document, as in the case of kidney specialists. There is a different reward for this, which has grown historically and perhaps also a little crooked. I would also like to nuance the following. The amounts mentioned in the press, which are always higher, are gross amounts, i.e. amounts before payments to hospitals have been made. As you can see in the recent MAHA study of Belfius, this is an average of 39.6 %. In some technical professions, such as radiology and nephrology, these payments sometimes exceed 80%. Of course, taxes are also paid on this. So some nuance wouldn't be misplaced there. The government agreement provides for a review of the nomenclature with a single rulebook, greater transparency in relation to the professional part, which is linked to the doctor's intellectual document and the technical part which takes account of the surrounding equipment and framework. As you said, in the context of the reform of hospitals, I had academics carry out analyses. These analyses are just about the division for each discipline of what the professional part is and what the technical part. Then we'll continue to negotiate with the medical syndicates. They are, after the statements in the press today, in a very best negotiation mode.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u62	Mr President, Minister, it is my custom to have a nuanced debate. I also intend to do so in this area. However, you yourself admit, within the nuance, that there are distortions today. Madam Minister, it is the ambition to do something that has not happened in the last 20 years, to work on the reform of doctors' wages. We cannot wait years to do so. We are therefore expecting a proposal in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have heard a number of statements from Elia's new top man, Chris Peeters. He said that Belgium is still in a mess with the energy pact. We know that this is a joint exercise. It's not just about the federal level. We must draw up this energy pact for our country together with the Regions. The Pact is important and crucial. We must ensure that we do not get into the same situation as with the Paris Climate Summit, where the Regions and the federal level had a very difficult time reaching an agreement. The core exit is fixed for 2025. If we want to achieve this, and in this respect I share Mr Peeters' opinion, we must be serious about creating an energy pact with the regions in order to make the transition. If we cannot do this by next year, I fear that we will be late and that the core step will not succeed. After all, it is very ambitious and technically very difficult. My colleague Dirk Janssens has already asked you about this in the past. You said at that time that you hope to land by the end of this year. In recent statements I read that the Regions will first come forward and that you will do your job by the summer of 2017. You'd still make it to the timing. How is cooperation with the Regions now going? I see the new minister Tommelein from the Flemish Region very actively communicating and working on the subject of wind and solar energy and other alternative energies. A resolution was adopted in Brussels on this subject, but I hear very little or nothing from Wallonia. I'd like to ask you what's going on with that. Are we gonna get the timing? If we do not have an agreement by mid-2017, I fear that the key step will be taken. Open Vld goes for the core trip. We want it to come and there's a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last night I was delighted to read the interview with Elijah's top man. He is right to say that the roll-out of renewable energy is an incredible opportunity and a blessing for our children and grandchildren and that the core exit is perfectly feasible, if we start it now at least. I also share his impatience and his question to you, Madam Minister, about the Energy Pact, which has been under discussion for some time now, the plan to light the lamp, the plan in which it is not only about the problems of cracks in reactors, leaking vessels, lack of transparency, but also about pleasant, positive things such as ways of exploiting engagement and creativity in the energy sector, together with consumer and environmental organisations. We have been begging for such an energy pact for some time now. Mr Dierick is not here for a while, but you have also been reminded by the CD&V group on a number of occasions. The coalition agreement said, Madam Secretary, that you would write it for the first year of the legislature. Mr Lachaert says that the pact must be there by the end of the year at the latest. Yesterday it came on television that the Regions need a while longer and that the realization is for the summer of next year. That's too slow for me. We can't accept that anymore. I share the impatience of the majority, my fellow Members, and would expressly ask that we not wait for the Regions and stop pointing at each other. Rent a castle or a bungalow, I don't care, or a conference room in Brussels. Put together a weekend and write to an energy pact. That's what you get paid for and what people ask you for. Then energy could also be something positive in our country. Please do not wait a few more months, Mrs Marghem, and do so immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday, the CEO of Elia – remember that he is not anyone – in office for fifteen months, gave his first interview. So he had time to soak up the matter well. He made a direct call. This call is clear: there must be concrete solutions to the exit of nuclear power for this summer. If we delay, we will find ourselves in front of the fait accompli, and then we will have to extend Doel 4 and Tihange 3. Madam Minister, on Tuesday I asked you in committee about storage and demand management, support for gas power plants and the capacity compensation mechanism. I was waiting for announcements. I was waiting for you to tell me that texts were coming. But I didn't see anything coming. However, measures must be taken, texts must be adopted quickly. Minister, it is imperative to bring together the regional energy ministers to make this energy pact a reality in our country. It's now or never! Are you going to take your pilgrim stick and act or, as Elia's CEO said, are we going to an extension of the nuclear power, an extension of Doel 4 and Tihange 3? Minister, it's time to unveil your game.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u66	Mr President, in general, a topical issue relates to an event. In this case, these current issues are related to an absence of an event. I would not say a non-event, but an inaction, a silence or a vacuum. Elia's boss, Mr. Chris Peeters, was interviewed. In essence, she asks you, Madam Minister, what your guideline is. "Where are we going?" He asks you in other words: "Is there a pilot on the plane?" Yes, we talked about the energy vision for our country by 2050. On several occasions, you have referred to the energy pact, but we do not see anything coming. In the end, Elias' boss gives us a reminder sting, saying: "We are in the dark. If we want to get out of nuclear power – which is still the goal announced in 2025 – a real policy is needed." This is currently the most complete confusion. It is not known what has been decided, what has been undertaken or what remains to be undertaken. At this point, my questions are as follows. What is the state of this energy pact that we have been talking about for the past two years? What methodological and content aspects did the Federal and the Regions agree on? It is time to have a precise timetable. It's time to get out of here and find out, "When do we go?"!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a small reminder. The government agreement provides for Belgium to have an inter-federal energy pact, preceded by an energy vision. The latter was adopted by the federal government in March 2015 and was then shared through resolutions voted by the Regions. Since then, we have tried to set up, as I explained to you, inter-federal working groups with the Regions. I have also reviewed the various interventions I have made in response to your questions since then. But at one point, on 19 April, the Regions decided, at an inter-federal IKW, to pursue their own vision of the future inter-federal pact. A pact is like a marriage. A marriage is two, and in this case the pact will be four: three Regions and the federal one. So we must agree, before we get married, on all the elements of this pact that will unite us, and know that we will act in accordance with it, in a future that will extend beyond this great agreement. Mr. Chris Peeters, who is the same name, with two letters from our Deputy Prime Minister, is particularly well informed about the work of the federal government during this time. I've talked about it several times. This also enabled Mr de Lamotte to take up the answers I had given to his questions in committee this week to ask about storage, demand management and support for gas-fired power plants. Chris Peeters is well informed since I asked him in December 2015 to do a study on our needs for adaptability and flexibility for the years 2017 to 2027. Why this period? Because, during this period of time, we're going to start getting out of nuclear power. In 2022 and 2023, the first power plants, Doel 3 and Tihange 2, and then, in 2025, all the others. We must therefore accompany this exit from nuclear power. For this to happen, it is best to work together. But again, I don't have an imperium on the Regions, I can't lock them up. Mr Calvo, earlier, was talking about finding a place where we can meet together, etc. I do not have the power to force them to stay locked up in Val Duchesse or elsewhere, with dry bread and water, to come out of an inter-federal pact, as long as they do not wish to participate in this joint work. However, I would point out that energy and climate policy in this country is highly regionalised. So, indeed, I must work in common with the Regions on this point. And they seem determined to do so once they have finished their work. I would like to stress that in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, too, they are moving forward, and that they will soon come out, thanks to their own regulators, a somewhat fleshy view of what they want in terms of energy and climate. Flanders has already taken a stand. Brussels also took a position. Wallonia does it too. In October, I believe that there will be an Energy-Climate Summit in Wallonia which will give guidance on this matter. If you will allow me to continue: it is clear that we will be able to meet again towards the end of this year. I reassure Mr de Lamotte and repeat what I said to him in committee this week: in the meantime, a text will soon be passed into intercabinets on storage, on demand management and on a reflection on the support of central production units. I draw this from the study of Elia that I commissioned from Mr. Chris Peeters, which was released in April 2016 and which was commented on by the stakeholders. I requested a supplementary study, which was recently presented to me on September 20, 2016. I think we're going somewhere! The federal and the regions are going somewhere and I hope to find themselves in the same plane, piloted together, at the end of this year!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. In any case, we must move forward. There's little point in passing each other over. A four-man marriage is even more complicated than a two-man marriage. I wish you good luck! Of course, we'll hold you to that. I believe that it is Parliament's job to see the timing respected. You did ask Elijah to work out a vision. Elia did, too. But Elijah's report is based on a nuclear exit with a capacity import of 50%, which is very high. If we want to do that, then we really need to take drastic measures for infrastructure. This shows all the more clearly that we need to make real progress in the coming period. We will, of course, follow up on the file. Together with you, we hope that you and your three colleagues from the regional governments will be able to make rapid progress, so that the pact will be there by the summer of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u69	Mr Lachaert, I think you are a little too kind to the Minister. Even a majority Member of Parliament might be a little more persistent in the pressure on the Minister to finally get to grips with this. Open Vld is wrong, CD&V is wrong, the opposition is wrong, Elia is wrong, because the minister says that she is doing well and that the energy pact will come about. Please stop doing that. Each week, I meet people from the sector who are asking parties to take part, even though it is just a basic compass for the energy future of our country. They want to know what technology they can invest in, but they are not getting that perspective today. Madam Secretary, you have raised the image of marriage. I do think that people cannot be forced to sit together and marry. There are personalities and competences that sometimes invite more to sit together, work together and maybe even marry than yours. I do not feel that you are playing your role in this matter, quite the contrary. I regret that, because it is a very important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u70	Minister, you have just explained some things to us. I hear your answer, but I still have a weakness, to believe that it convinces everyone in your majority. But when I hear Mrs Dierick, one of my colleagues and a neighbour on the bench, speaking in the press on this subject, saying: "Doing nothing is not an option", I have the impression that it is indeed dubitative. Minister, I was waiting for an answer in action. Here, I got ad effects and no facts. No projects have been submitted. Minister, we have to work. We look forward to your texts on storage, demand management and gas. It's now or never!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u71	Madam Minister, at the end of your answer, I still don't know when the energy pact will land. It makes me think a little bit of a Coluche formula. When Mrs Marghem finished answering, "we don't understand the question we asked." If I take stock of your energy policy, it's pretty catastrophic! Consumers have seen an increase in the electricity bill through the change in VAT rates. You have wasted your time and our time with extensions of old nuclear power plants that are totally useless for security of supply, and you have created instability in the sector by your particular personal methods. So I want to say that we still have to listen to the messages that are given by the sector. We need an energy mix. Elia's boss says so. We have to work on it. The government has made the nuclear option at all and we believe that this is not the right path. We think we really need to change course and we invite you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u72	Colleagues, because of a foreign agreement and as agreed at the Conference of Presidents, I would now like to leave the sitting. I ask the Vice-President to replace me on the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u73	Mr President, Minister, the sixth state reform is not a state reform of my dreams. I must say that it is one of the half-hearted transfers of powers, and that is certainly true of the competence in the area of mobility and road safety. I also notice that you are increasingly undermining the transfer of powers. Every time Flanders adopts a new measure in the context of its new policy areas, you challenge that measure. Think of continuing training for driving licences C and D. There are currently at least seven cases pending before the Board of State, Department of Administrative Law. I have questions about that. You clearly do not agree with the way things are going, although it appears that the opinion of the Council of State, the legislative section, is always positive. Flanders is always given a positive advice to exercise that power and yet you are against it. Strange, because I thought that you, together with your Flemish colleague, had agreed that an opinion would be the guiding principle without further litigation. Now you're actually giving civil servants and lawyers unnecessary work. At the same time, people are wondering why the government's seizure is so large. Minister, the government agreement stipulates that the sixth state reform must be carried out. I believe that you too have been held to do so. I can imagine that you do not agree with everything either, but your party has agreed to the sixth state reform. So I wonder whether it is your intention every time Flanders adopts new measures on the division of powers to counter them? I would also like to know your attitude towards the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region. Are there a number of disputes or not? Is that your position or the government's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u74	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, like any state reform, the sixth state reform has allowed grey areas to exist in terms of competences. In the past, this was no different. These grey areas concern in particular inland waterway and road transport. The best way to deal with this is clear consultation between the authorities concerned. My services have regular consultations with the regional services. If no solution can be found through consultation, a position is requested from the Council of State. That's how it works in a rule of law. This has already been done in the case of driving licences and training. We must be complete and correct. In some areas, the regional government is simply not ready to take over federalised powers. There is very good cooperation between the levels and, in this context, I am thinking, for example, of the file on access to the profession. I'll finish with a positive note. The discussions currently taking place will also find a solution, both politically and legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u75	Minister, I understand that there are still grey areas, that there is a need for consultation and that the opinion of the Council of State is requested. I don't have a problem with that. However, in the opinion of the Council of State, it is very clear that Flanders is competent, but nevertheless you are proceeding further. You are suggesting that an opinion is not enough and that you would prefer a judgment to prove it. That is a pity, because in this way you prevent Flanders and the other regions from exercising their powers, while it is true that the powers of the Regions are at stake. I am pleased that the whole story confirms that the sixth state reform is not the state reform that we thought it would be and that there is a need for a homogeneous division of competences, certainly in terms of mobility and road safety, which certainly should not be the victim of a lack of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u76	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u77	By letter dated 26 September 2016, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 26 September 2016, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u78	By letter dated 21 September 2016, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 21 September 2016, the Walloon Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u79	By letter dated 19 September 2016, the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, on behalf of the Committee, asked that Mr Emile Dejehansart, former Councillor at the Standing Committee P, should be entitled to hold the title of office. By letter dated September 19, 2016, the Chair of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services requested, on behalf of the Committee, that Mr.Emile Dejehansart, former adviser to Committee P, be permitted to bear the honorary title of his position. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 October 2016, I propose that Mr Emile Dejehansart be given the honorary title of member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of October 5, 2016, I propose that you grant Mr.Emile Dejehansart the honour of being a member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u80	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; these proposals shall be forwarded to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 October 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert) abolishing tampontaks and introducing a VAT of 6% on products for the periodic protection of women, No. 2067/1; - the motion for a resolution (Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert) on the lifting of tampontaks and the setting up of a VAT rate of 0% on products for the periodic protection of women, No. 2068/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u81	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 October 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert) against the "buffer tax" and for a 6% VAT on women's periodic protection products, No. 2067/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert) against the "buffer tax" and for a 0 % VAT on women's periodic protection products, No 2068/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u82	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u83	These inquiries were developed in plenary session on 29 September 2016 These interviews were held at the plenary session of 29 September 2016. Six motions were tabled (MOT No. 165/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Véronique Caprasse; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Anne Dedry and Ms Muriel Gerkens; - a fifth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marco Van Hees; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter De Roover, Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme, Dirk Janssens et Servais Verherstraeten. Six motions were tabled (MOT No. 165/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Véronique Caprasse; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a fifth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marco Van Hees; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u84	Mr. Chairman, at the end of these inquiries, we heard the Minister's answers. His answers were rather disappointing and consisted of saying that it was the fault of X or Y. This brings us to a rather paradoxical state. Indeed, on the one hand, we have motivated students, who want to do well, and who find themselves blocked. On the other hand, we have shortages of general practitioners and other specialties. That is why we are tabling a motion. It calls on the government, first, to urgently establish a dynamic and reliable cadastre for medical planning and management, the basis of which must be an analysis of the health needs of the population, which I believe is fundamental. Secondly, pending this framework, we call on the government to suspend the current system of physician quotas. I suppose the majority will support a common sense proposal like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u85	Mr President, I may repeat what has been said, but I am of the opinion that one thing must sometimes be heard more than twice and even more. Today we have a medical cadastre which has been the subject of considerable work by the Medical Supply Planning Commission. The conclusions are binding and unpleasant in the north of the country. Indeed, this cadastre confirms the risk of a shortage of doctors in the South. The key to the distribution of INAMI numbers in favour of Francophones should be reviewed, which is inconceivable for Flemish politicians who accuse Francophones of laxism since the 1990s, this lack of scientific foundation. Although the Conseil d'État has invalidated the quota of 605 French-speaking students who are allowed to graduate because this figure is not based on sufficiently current and precise data, nothing to do, against all expectations, the Minister of Public Health has decided to maintain the 60/40 key, despite the Commission's recommendations. We cannot therefore content ourselves with a purely Community decision, especially for a matter which is so closely related to the health and even the lives of citizens in the south of the country. That is why I asked the minister last week and I tabled a motion whose text was read in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just said, the government has decided not to follow the experts and has clearly decided to disadvantage Francophones with regard to INAMI quotas! While the MR misled herself in every direction to try to find an explanation, the Minister of Health had the honesty to say: "Yes, it is a political decision, yes, I got screwed by the N-VA, and so bad for Francophones!" It is to be put on the record, heavy, serious, of a policy that is deliberately, decisively, against the interests of Francophones and, in this case, against the health of 4 million Francophones. I very much regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u87	Mr. President, the government is with Mr. From Crem!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u88	Colleagues, I like to work with order. For the moment, apart from the noises that come to my mind, I have no request for a statement other than that of Mrs Gerkens. But if anyone asks for the floor with regard to the presence of the government, as I thought I heard, I will have to register it. (...): You are complacent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u89	I'm not complacent, but I need order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u90	Mr. Chairman, we are asking for a government presence. It's starting to do good! There's one walking around the United States... there you go, Mrs. Marghem, with her cross. Look, the confessional signs, what it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, it was enough to ask! Mrs Gerkens, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u92	It is very good that the government is represented, but it is also the colleagues in Parliament that I am speaking to because the tabling of motions and the tabling of a simple motion is the responsibility of parliamentarians. My intervention will focus on that. A simple motion has been tabled to prevent further work in this Parliament with the Minister of Health, which would allow for a proper deepening of the way in which health care needs are assessed and the way in which the provision of care and health care providers is organized. This is really something unacceptable when you see that there is a shortage of health professionals and doctors in Wallonia but also in Flanders. Flemish experts also recognise this outside this parliamentary chamber. That's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the challenge is to get out from the top of this dossier, against which political responsibility is overwhelming, accompanied by a permanent ping pong above the heads of the students. What we are proposing is a three-point solution: - guarantee an INAMI number for medical and dental graduates; - to combine a similar entry examination in the North and South, to put an end to this overbidding at Community level; - examine how non-Belgian European doctors operate in Belgium, introducing the requirement of knowledge of a national language. It is important to be able to make yourself understood about his patients. Today, government decisions favour foreign doctors rather than Belgians. It is clearly discrimination backwards. Colleagues, if you vote the motion outright, it would mean that you would prefer to take decisions on purely political rather than scientific grounds. Choosing to vote on the motion is a clear choice to take the risk of undermining the future of our health care. When one sees that a governor has to requisition general practitioners where there are shortages, when patients have to wait six months to go to the ophthalmologist, to take only two examples: this is totally unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u94	Mr President, it is pointless to recall that last week's debate was thorough and lively. A lot of truths have been told. Contrary to what I have heard in the Chamber today, it must be acknowledged that the minister has provided all the answers to the questions put to her. I would like to correct a few points very quickly. Of course, everyone will camp on his or her positions, whether political or not, but he or she must stop uttering counter-truths. I am thinking in this way of the allegations of the general shortage. Some specialties have a relative shortage, but this is the principle of subquotas. To the best of my knowledge, this is the responsibility of the Community. Secondly, I would like to point out that when the Planning Commission issued its report, the 248 receipts were not taken into account. These are new elements that need to be incorporated into the distribution key. I understand that the opposition is trying at all costs to put a layer of community in each of the issues we have to deal with. The goal is understandable, any way to try to destabilize the government is good. I simply note that one forgets to say that if a mistake was made in this case, it is the fact that you did not have an entry examination or a filter installed in the first year! If this had been done through the various ministers who succeeded the Community, we would not have done so! I conclude by saying that, at first glance, there seems to be some progress in this area, since Mr Marcourt would have announced that he was moving towards an entry examination or a first-year filter, which we have been waiting for for a very long time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat myself either. I think I made it very clear last week what my opinion is on this dossier. It is the opinion of many, I believe. Mrs Onkelinx, and also Mrs Fonck, the big words you dare to use over and over again in this dossier are the right words, but point them to the right side. That is not here, to the federal minister, but to your own minister of the French community government. If he had accepted his responsibility, if you had taken responsibility for the past few years as the competent minister, we would no longer be dealing with that dossier today. You know exactly what I'm talking about. So take responsibility. Do it 18 years too late, but do it now! At least now we can solve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u96	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u97	Yes 77 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u98	Mr President, early this week ING Bank announced a comprehensive restructuring plan with hundreds and hundreds of redundancies. Our committees have considered this issue this week. The PS Group has made the request to organise, as for Caterpillar, commissions together, in this case in the case of a bank: the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Finance. The Finance Committee, to my knowledge, voted in camera on this issue and did not wish to participate in these joint committees. I take note of that. Nevertheless, both the Economic and Social Committees have agreed unanimously and consensually to organise these committees in a joint manner. These hearings are scheduled to take place tomorrow. The Conference of Presidents also discussed this issue and hoped that a solution to this debate would be found again this week, given the impossibility of conducting it next week. It was decided, I think, in the Conference that the morning would be devoted to the hearing of the company's social partners and in the afternoon to an exchange of views with the government on the matter. As far as the social partners are concerned, the secretariats have made contacts and things are organised. Tomorrow at 10:00 a.m., we will be able to hear two representatives of the company management who accepted the invitation, contrary to the situation at Caterpillar. We will hear Mr Rik Vandenberghe and Mr Ivo Pareyns, who is responsible for ING's human resources, and then the unions. All this is for tomorrow morning. Many colleagues were asking us about the programme for tomorrow. It wasn't online until we knew the answers of course. I do not know if my colleague chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has any further news of the government, but I still have a concern for the afternoon. As I speak to you, as chairman of the Committee on the Economy, I do not have a reply from the government as to who will be present. The request of the two committees was to have an exchange of views with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance. We can discuss the timing, other points, of the agenda, but I do not have a comeback at the moment allowing me, with my colleague chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to convene for the afternoon. Unless Mr. Van Quickenborne has more recent information, I appeal to President Bracke to contact the Prime Minister and to ensure that tomorrow, as with Caterpillar, for this social tragedy at ING, colleagues who wish to do so, including members of the Finance Committee, can also have an exchange of views in the afternoon with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u99	I understand you, Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u100	Mr President, I was not present for the vote because I was in the committee secretariat. My dear colleague Delizee, with whom I have the pleasure of chairing tomorrow's sitting, might have been able to inform me first. I have just received confirmation that Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters will be present tomorrow at the committee meeting to express the government's position, which he represents. This problem has also been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u101	Mr President, it is not exactly the same thing. The Conference of Presidents decided that in the morning there would be a hearing of the social partners and an exchange of views of Members with the social partners, and that in the afternoon there would be an exchange of views with the government. What Mr. Van Quickenborne is that Mr Peeters will be present during the hearing. I don't know if he's gonna talk or not. For Caterpillar, we were told: the government cannot come at the same time as the unions. Here, I question the assembly to find out what is being asked. It seems to me that the decision of the Conference of Presidents was to have a specific exchange of views with the government (with, I repeat, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance) outside the meeting with the social partners. Or we are no longer within the framework of the decision of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u102	Minister Peeters has confirmed to me that he will be presenting the dossier on behalf of the government tomorrow. What's the problem? I don't understand. The government is represented by Mr Peeters and that is enough. Colleagues, sandwiches have been ordered. Does that mean that the sitting lasts until noon or until noon? I propose, for the efficiency of the meeting, that we first hear the management and the trade unions and then the minister, so we will meet efficiently. I suggest we do it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u103	I think we can conclude. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, which I attended, the social partners and employers' representatives will be heard in the morning. The government will be heard in the afternoon, but exclusively represented by Minister Peeters. Some members of the Conference of Presidents had expressed the wish that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance should also be present. I think a precise answer has been given by Mr Van Quickenborne. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-06-54-plenair-ip128x.u104	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. Pursuant to Rule 140 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber is to decide on simple motions and motions of recommendation which have been tabled this week at the latest next week. In accordance with rule 140.6, the House is to rule next week on simple motions and motions of recommendation tabled this week. I therefore propose, pursuant to Rule 17 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, that the vote on these motions be added to the agenda for Thursday 13 October 2016. I therefore propose, pursuant to Rule 17.2 of the Rules of Procedure, to add the nominative vote on these motions to the agenda for next Thursday, October 13, 2016. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 11 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, 11 October 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
