ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will of course not fall into irresponsibility by saying that everything you do is wrong in essence. That would be stupid. But the general situation of the country, which is falling apart, is largely related to your austerity choices, which first and foremost affect the services of the State. These choices result in a general protest, but also and above all the observation of a evaporating State. The most significant example is the situation of the third power of the State. Managing Justice is not managing a department. It is dialogue and building with a power without which there would be no democracy. The appeal of magistrates, clerks, secretaries, lawyers and associations is urgent, ulcerated and combative. It concerns the entire government. When is a government summit on justice in this country? You have a big problem. Reforms that are increasing without really involving actors on the ground. Reductions in staff that prevent justice from being done calmly. Savings on equipment already so obsolete. Access to justice is increasingly difficult for the most disadvantaged of our citizens. You have to stop the killing game. At the budgetary level, I hope that you will refuse, as part of budgetary prudence, new savings in 2016. But, much more, will you renew the dialogue and confidence by excluding for 2017 and 2018 new savings that you have planned and by agreeing to resume the positive fiscal catch-up? At the staff level, are you going to revive recruitment reserves, take steps to make functions attractive, allow long-term contract hiring of staff pending the long appointment process? On the material level, are you going to reinvest, because the daily lives of our agents are photocopiers that don't work, impossible scanning and outdated computers? When is a priority not to a sixth reform but to an honest and ambitious management of our Justice? Prime Minister, when is a head of government who needs to get the country out of this delicacy that undermines it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u3	Prime Minister, Minister, I fully understand the demands of guards, magistrates and lawyers. I have long known that Belgium is a rogue state, as the President of the Court of Cassation says. That's not what my question is about today. My question is specifically about rogue areas of trade unionists and trade unions, which cannot be held accountable for this. Suffering is a right, but destroying is a crime. The free-of-charge guards who stormed the cabinet of Minister Noone last week began, as it were, to look like their customers when they destroyed computers and television screens when they shattered windows and threw printers out the windows. Had it not been the hotheads of free-trade unions, there would undoubtedly have been a joint declaration from all the self-proclaimed democratic parties to condemn that violence. Prime Minister, you reacted very late and anything but decisively to that violence. Unionshooligans can't just beat the shit out of the Justice Department unpunished. My question is therefore whether the perpetrators will be prosecuted, whether the perpetrators have been identified and whether the trade unions are involved in their identification. Or is everything covered with the union cloak of love? Can they stay in service? An old debate which every time stirs up in the wake of such incidents concerns the fact that the trade unions themselves cannot be held liable. They do have advantages and exclusive rights, but are uncontrollable as de facto associations and do not suffer the disadvantages of legal personality. Since they still cannot be held accountable for damage to date, my main question is whether, for the sake of social justice, you will ensure that the trade unions are finally given full legal personality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u4	Prime Minister, I hate the power war; I hate cock fighting. I am all the more comfortable to say this because I regret the way in which the Minister of Justice reacted at the beginning of the week to the first President of the Court of Cassation, on the day of Pentecost. He threw oil on the fire when he should have tried to extinguish the fire by concrete measures. What did your minister say? "Judges, all incompetent: they don't even read the Monitor. Judges, all of them incompetent: they don't even understand "pots-porri". I'll explain it to them." What did your minister do? He summoned the first President of the Court of Cassation to the report on Wednesday morning. Then he asked him to behave as an adult, as if he were a child. My questions are very simple, Prime Minister. When will the world of justice cease to be considered an annex to the FPS Justice? As if Poelaert Square was the backyard of Waterloo Boulevard. When will we listen to the voices of those who are in the field and who say that you are breaking the tool? When will your minister be the minister who defends justice, who defends judges, who defends litigants, rather than the minister who criticizes judges, who condemns them, probably considering them too independent? Prime Minister, I will, of course, be attentive to the answers you would like to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u5	Prime Minister, the situation has been deteriorating for three weeks, and the chaos in our prisons continues. Minister of Justice, you have called for the help of the Prime Minister, so far totally absent in this crisis. In the same place, we were reassured. We were told that an agreement was about to be reached, that a solution would be reached. However, today we see that nothing has changed. Worse, the strike is getting harder. Now we have to count a dead man. I'm not holding you responsible, but someone died in a jail on strike. It is also necessary to record violence that I certainly do not condone, but the use of violence demonstrates the general ras-le-bol of a sector that is suffering. Dozens of inmate complaints must also be recorded. We are even talking about collective action to denounce inhuman and indecent living conditions. If Belgium is now called a failing state, it is the result of your policy and not the fault of the strikers, Prime Minister. Your plan of savings does not allow you to exercise your profession in decent working conditions or to pursue a prison policy worthy of the rule of law. The government's disinvestment in public services must stop, just as this humanitarian crisis has lasted long enough. You said last week you received a new warrant. What do you propose to the agents? Do you intend to stop this downsizing and return to 2014? What is the status of the negotiations? When will you find a solution as the situation deteriorates? Finally, as you are so in favour of a managerial policy, do you not think that the penalty payments obtained by the detainees are wasted money that could be more usefully invested in the framework, in the status of the officers and in the prison infrastructure? In advance, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u6	Prime Minister, some say that you are not seen, that you are not heard. But you, at least, do you hear? Do you hear, for example, the world of justice, prison officers, magistrates, lawyers, clerks? Do you hear them? Do you understand that the situation has become intolerable in this sector? There was the "pot-pourri" first. We know that this government inherited justice in very bad condition, crumbling. What did you come with, and not to save her? You came with "pots-porris" which are, as the Minister of Justice had said in committee, plans with a budget aim. It's the same for prisons. The agents are trying to get the head out of the water. What is this government doing? He pushes their heads even deeper into the water. Today is the 24th day of the strike. I don't know if you know, Prime Minister: there's been a prison strike for 24 days. No initiative is taken, while the demands of the prison officers are clear: they want to return to the 2014 framework. And then there's the grunt, and even a possible strike, among the magistrates, because they too can't. For example, Mr. Ghuysen of the Judicial Association in the north of the country complained that a year ago he had been promised that the situation would improve. It is 87 per cent of the framework and 90 per cent of the framework for magistrates. It even evokes a possible strike. There is also the first president of the Court of Cassation who said: "This State is no longer a rule of law but a rogue State." So that's the situation. What is the reaction of your Minister of Justice, Prime Minister? That's to say, in plain language: "Close it! Respect the duty of reserve." This makes me think a little bit about how we manage the consultation with the unions. Apparently, with the magistrates, we're acting the same way. Prime Minister, will you wake up? Will you remind your Minister of Justice that in Belgium there is a principle of separation of powers? Are you finally going to give money to meet the legitimate demands of the world of justice, both prison officers and magistrates and other actors in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u7	Mr President, in recent weeks, major events have caused shock waves in our society with emotional reactions and statements, even those who bear important responsibilities in this country, declarations and reactions that do not contribute to a solution. Our State, our country, has been awarded several adjectives in recent weeks. There's only one knock. We are a rule of law, a rule of law with separation of powers, in which the powers deal with each other respectfully, Mr Delpérée, even in language, certainly from executives. We are a rule of law in which last week an absolute low point was reached, when some of the guards committed destruction. In a state governed by the rule of law, those who cause destruction are persecuted and will have to bear the consequences. We are a rule of law in which the budgets, if we compare them now with those of the mid-1990s, have a huge increase. We are a rule of law, in which we have more guards for fewer prisoners compared to ten years ago. Colleagues, the attacks are putting pressure on us. From those who bear responsibility, we expect them to keep the calm. A lot of people do that, too. I am thinking, for example, of the Flemish prison directors. They recognize that they have been spared from savings for years. They realise that this is not sustainable. They create a basis for change and they seek solutions tailored to each prison. Change and dialogue go together, and are better than imposed change. And that doesn't just happen in the north of the country. This is also happening in some institutions in the other part of the country. I would like to say the following to Mr Delpérée. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, together with among others the Flemish prison directors, have kept their calm in difficult circumstances. They could have done it differently and shut the door. They have kept the door open and continued the dialogue. They will also continue the changes. I'll come to my questions. What is the result of the discreet meeting with the first President of the Court of Cassation? What is the outcome of the negotiations with the trade unions over the last few hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, I am here today, above all, as a genuinely concerned Member of Parliament. Mr Verherstraeten rightly says that we are a rule of law. The cornerstone of a rule of law is, of course, our judicial system. Our courts and courts are that cornerstone. Our group will support any Justice Minister who wants to reform justice, who wants to make it more efficient and better, and who wants to modernise it. That must be the objective. The question here is what is the objective of this government. Less staff and a lower workload may indeed be the result of a modernisation process, but this government has said from the outset that in four years' time 10% will be saved in the Justice Department. You know the consequences for our judges, for our magistrates. We know what the consequences are for the judicial staff. Saving before reform is absolutely nothing. If I listen carefully to the President of the Court of Cassation, his reasoning is basically the same, Minister of Justice. Justice is being dealt with today by your cabinet and the government on the basis of savings. The various magistrates who have been in the press over the last few days say that they are not going to stop, that is good, but they do announce that if nothing changes, they are going to go to some sort of punctuality action. I'm worried about that. They will legally do what they have to do, but no more than that. Then the cornerstone of our democracy and our rule of law will fall. I am concerned about that, Minister of Justice, and you should also be concerned about that. Following the statements of the various magistrates, you announced that the government should listen. They've been in your cabinet and you've been listening. Did that listening from your side get you anything? Are there any changes in your policy? Have you proposed solutions to them? Are there gonna be changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u9	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, we are on the 24th day of the prison strike. Your method of listening and dialogue is obviously very much in tune with the unacceptable incidents that took place this week at the Justice FPS. It must be denounced. Clearly, your method works as well as the responsibility of the union representatives, since yesterday and this morning I heard that we were gradually coming to a solution. We can only rejoice in that. That is partly the subject of my question. Unlike last week, I wish I could speak quietly, calmly so that I could be heard. It would still be a positive signal, because the signal that is given when no one gets along and we do not know how to hear the views of others is, in my view, not very positive for the whole population. Thank you very much! Like some of us, I'm sure, you went to see the situation in the prisons. As last week, it is important to stress the sense of responsibility of prison authorities, prison officers who are not on strike, police officers, military personnel, the Red Cross and all those who are making positive efforts to ensure that the situation is not untenable for prisoners. I would remind you that the people who are locked up are totally dependent on the outside. There's no plan B for them. There's no solution. They depend entirely on the outside. I therefore welcome the sense of responsibility of each other for the time being. The second part of my speech concerns the judiciary. Mr Delperée, you have pointed out in a completely wrong way the reaction of the minister. First of all, I am surprised that, in relation to the duty of reserve, we make the choice of expressing ourselves in the media, which often do not allow nuance. The minister's immediate response was particularly helpful. You have to have this dialogue with your eyes in your eyes and not through a screen. This seems to me to be essential democratically in relation to powers that are currently often called into question. Minister, I have a few quick questions. Specifically, at the level of prisons, where are you in the negotiations? Are things actually moving forward positively? What else do you intend to put on the negotiating table in the next few hours and, I hope, in the final hours of this negotiation before work is resumed? At the level of the judiciary, where are we in the filling of executives? At the judicial level, what is the status of workload estimates? Finally, what is the status of negotiation in relation to self-management?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Justice, Security and Justice are at the heart of a society. The current government has also shown great ambition for these issues in the coalition agreement, with a view to opening up a staggering situation in the 21st century. It is not surprising in itself that this raises some resistance and some resistance. Too many people are used to living in that rigid situation. However, we have seen this week that what may have started as a social resistance has degenerate into a political weapon. We have seen the grim face of such a tendency. Minister, Prime Minister, we can hope that this rule of law will provide an appropriate response to the atrocities that have taken place this week. However, we must not only talk about a number of unhindered individuals. We must also ask ourselves who, as it were, has provoked these people to take such action. In this respect, the responsibility is very great for the traders in the illusion of the status quo and of the rigid ideological thinking, which says nothing can change and that all the problems will be solved if we throw a little money at it. It is bizarre that this week we have been told by politicians and certain observers that our state is apparently being stripped, while we still have a 54 percent public debt. Apparently, according to some, this is not enough to finance a normal government. We are asking fundamental questions. On the other hand, we have seen the Flemish prison directors, who have put forward proposals in a very constructive way, in order to make the possibilities available to the public authorities for justice. Against this background, I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, Minister, is the path of consultation, dialogue and creative thinking that the Flemish prison directors have opened, the path you continue to follow? It is a path of consultation and reform. My second question has become very acute. To what extent will you de facto develop the guaranteed service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Justice, ladies and gentlemen, when you are the last speaker, that gives you the opportunity to be concise. I shall therefore go along with all the questions put by my fellow Members from the majority groups. However, first of all, I should like to say that it is quite common in the case of social conflicts that the opposition parties are trying to win. It is strange that people actually see that extreme right and far left in the north and south of the country are actually doing exactly the same analysis to try to recover the social displeasure. I find that distasteful. That's actually political companies on the hood of those who are in trouble today. Secondly, as far as the guards are concerned, we are now faced with a strike of more than three weeks. Last week Mr Van Cauter said that the right to strike is not absolute; it ends where it conflicts with the rights of, in this case, the prisoners. Those rights are seriously denied today. Another consequence that we have seen is that it was also disgusting... was the escalation, the blind anger, the vandalism, something that was unpublished in my eyes. On behalf of my group, I urge that those responsible be identified and prosecuted. I would like to make a third comment. It's not just about the guards. The highest magistrate in this country has mixed and criticised in the debate, Minister of Justice, for a judicial reform which is nevertheless widely supported by this Parliament. I cherish the independence of the judiciary and I say very clearly that independence is absolutely essential to me when it comes to writing a judgment. In his judicial function, a magistrate is completely independent. Ladies and gentlemen, independence is not the same as inviolability. Let me make that point very clear: the judiciary is also a power financed by public funds, and it is therefore responsible, in other words, for control and accountability. Prime Minister, a final remark. It's not just about justice, it's about your other reforms that are going on. There is always uncertainty, there is always fear, there are always social conflicts. In President Hollande's France, it cannot be said that it is all peis and peis in the last few days. Yesterday a police car was set on fire there. There are demonstrations every day in socialist France. Why? Because people are trying to liberalise the labour market. That is why it is argued and stopped there. In other words, who's here to lecture who? Why don't you go across the border and see what's going on over there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u12	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u13	That has everything to see!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u14	You're next to the plate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u15	You must not be selective in your choices. Look what's happening in France!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u17	I'm curious if you're still going to attend MM's meetings. Holland, Macron or Valls in 2017. Prime Minister, if there is social resistance, proceed with your reforms. I tell you, don't look back, do it, continue with your reforms. Never give in to the violence of the street. The prizes will be distributed to the final measurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the questions raised by first addressing the issue of prisons. This issue was discussed in this chamber last week and it is important that the government report on the progress of our efforts on this issue. Last Thursday, I stated in plenary that we intended to give a new additional mandate to Minister None on some specific points. That's what we did. On Friday morning, we validated an investment plan to improve infrastructure – the Masterplan "Prize". It's a long-term commitment. The government has been very active in this project. We have also issued a mandate to develop more and faster measures to combat prison overcrowding. Some recalled last week the progress made in a few months, as overpopulation fell significantly. We asked the Minister to continue to work on a specific status for prison staff and to see how recruitment could be improved and objective. At the outset, I want to make it clear that we are measuring the difficult and sensitive nature of the situation with the Minister of Justice on an hour-to-hour basis. I would like to formally and solemnly take advantage of this moment in Parliament to thank on behalf of the government the prison directors, the police, the military, the firemen, the workers, all those who are mobilizing to try to guarantee humanity in our prisons and to respect the minimum dignity of the detainees. Let them be formally thanked for this! Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago we had talks with the Minister of Justice. Last night he met the unions. This morning we discussed in the nuclear cabinet in the perspective of new proposals. Tonight, the Minister of Justice has the opportunity to present new proposals to the trade unions. I want to show you that we have done everything we can to maintain a constant capacity to implement the reforms, to optimize and to dialogue, to see how we can succeed in improving the proposals, to ensure that we can recover as soon as possible, because this has lasted enough, serenity, calm, stability in all the prisons. This is the commitment we want to work on with the unions and we hope that it will be possible to make progress in the next few hours. I now turn to the statements that have been made, some of which have been relayed by colleagues from the judiciary. Justice is clearly a constituted power, and it is also a public service, which must be fully respected. The separation of powers, or more precisely the balance between powers, weights and mutual counterweights according to Montesquieu's theory, is one of the fundamentals of the rule of law, of democracy. It is therefore necessary, and I am not saying it, that it is some judges who have rightly theorized a great deal in relation to this, to succeed in combining the freedom of opinion, the freedom of expression of every citizen, and also of judges, with the duty of reservation, which is a guarantee for the independence of justice, a condition sine qua non in a state governed by the rule of law. But there is not only independence, there is also the appearance of independence! Why? Because it is a guarantee of the confidence of the citizens in the judicial institution! I want to be extremely clear, it is up to each magistrate to appreciate in his responsibility how he manages to combine this duty of reservation with the concern for the independence of the justice system. I mean, basically, that in my view Belgium is not a failed State, Belgium is not a rogue state, Belgium is a great democracy and a rule of law! I respect everyone's opinion, both in the majority and in the opposition, on the strategy to put support and a positive future for justice first, which is a crucial point for the future of our democracy. I respect the different opinions, but there is a fundamental truth. What was one of the first concrete decisions in the first weeks after the start of this government? One of the government's first concrete decisions in the area of justice was to clear 160 million euros of debts from the past, the collective responsibility of the members of the former government. A debt of 160 million euros has been abated! Second truth. We look at the figures for public expenditure on justice in Belgium in comparison to the European situation. In view of the amounts spent per inhabitant, I see that we are rather well placed in relation to the European average. If I take the number of magistrates and compare it to the European average, I find that, proportionally, we have a number of magistrates who place us properly in relation to the European average. On the other hand, our concern, our concern, is to continue the dialogue to reform with justice actors. We want to continue this dialogue no matter what, and maintain this course. In this context, one point is important. Not many have mentioned it. The legislation on autonomy was adopted by the Chamber in 2014. Now the question of how this autonomy can be implemented is being asked of the government and the actors of justice. That is the purpose of our discussion. Over the last few weeks and months, the Minister of Justice has worked a lot, he has really engaged in an in-depth dialogue with the actors of justice in order to achieve results. I'm pretty clear about that. Yes to more autonomy and therefore to more responsibility to organize the functioning of justice in a perspective of independence. But more autonomy does not mean the total absence of controls. More autonomy does not mean giving a blank cheque. A mayor must be accountable to his municipal council, to his municipal receiver in budgetary matters. A minister is accountable to the Inspector of Finance, the Court of Auditors and Parliament. According to Montesquieu, in the rule of law, in this commitment to democracy, everyone must agree to find the right place to guarantee these fundamental values that are dear to us. We will therefore continue the work, continue the reforms and continue the dialogue. It's not simple; it's delicate; it's difficult. But we are extremely determined to demonstrate that we are up to the challenge we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Delperee, politics is something special. Being a little older than me, you probably also know more about this than I do. You have published a lot of publications on this subject. The polemic between the Communities, the polemic between the powers, the polemic between the political parties, the polemic between the majority and the opposition are part of our daily life. A well-thought-out and persistent policy, which goes beyond these oppositions, is a source of a sustainable future. It seems to me that at the beginning of your speech, you called me a cock. You're wrong, Mr. Delperee, I'm a "lion." I apologize for not appreciating your introduction at all. Second of all, I don't want to have any polemics today. I've never talked about the state of my department before I found it. I won't do that today either. Anyone who tries to put the responsibility for the situation in which our prisons and our justice were in the shoes of one minister or one government, or of the Prime Minister, with whom I work brilliantly, Mr Bonte, knows that he is abusing the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, when I first proposed my plan for justice in the Committee on Justice, I very much appreciated that people among you said that they would think about it, about the limits of majority and opposition. I have enjoyed so much, Mrs Onkelinx, that on many occasions we have obtained unanimity in the Committee on Justice on a number of proposals. It's good that in front of the people...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u21	You weren't always there, Mr. Van Hees. I see you in committee only when there are questions on Wednesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u23	No. At all, Mr. Nollet. Those are the facts. The Justice Plan, which I have proposed to you from the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, is a three-phase plan. The first is the continuity of what had been begun by my predecessors. The Prime Minister has already referred to catching up on arrears. A Graydon study was published this week. She says that Justice is one of the best debtors in the kingdom and that 99% of bills are paid very quickly. I come to the issue of self-government and Mr Goffin's question. The autonomy, which was then registered by Minister Turtelboom in the 2014 law, I try, in dialogue with the Magistrate, to implement day after day. Today, the magistrate in my cabinet is responsible for prioritizing the appointments. 421 vacancies have been issued since my arrival; more than 200 have been filled and 80 are running. I have not been able to fill out a number of vacancies and I have declared them vacant again. That's the truth. Those priorities shall be defined in consultation with the lectures of the Magistrate. I have always said that there would be a second step after continuity. Then comes the second stage of the triple jump. We can make fun of the "pot-pourri" but it is not excluded, ladies and gentlemen - I dare not even mention the facts, Mr Nollet, I am afraid now - that these "pots-pourri" have reduced the workload. There must be fewer oppositions at the moment, there must be fewer calls, there must be fewer sitting cases. That's what the judiciary asked me to do. I have never introduced one of these proposals, only one of them without extensive consultations. If you find that the minister no longer has to decide and others have to decide on the bills that he has introduced in concert with the government, it is better not to have a minister anymore! Third stage of the triple jump. Then there's the jump. I always said I'd deal with the basic legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, last week I was unable to attend the second discussion of the hearings of the first book of the Code of Criminal Law, prepared by Professor Vandermeersch and Mrs Rozie, because I was held hostage in my cabinet. However, it has been discussed, with great interest from all groups of majority and opposition. I'll do that third step. You can count on it. Finally, I would like to address a few questions. As far as the magistrate is concerned, enough has been said about the separation of powers. I won't add anything to that. A minister serves to collect, and I'd be happy to. I would even like to offer my other cheek, but occasionally, Mr Delpérée, it is a good thing that a Minister of Justice also says exactly that there are things that should not be said. I'm also trying to make as little mistake as possible on my part. You can count on it. If I say anything wrong, I apologize humbly for that. I've never stopped dialoging with the magistrate. Never. Every day I talk to her about everything that concerns her. So I find it difficult to accept that people are pretending that I want to go ahead with the changes, because that is not right. Only that we need to change, that we need to become more efficient, that we need to be more focused, that we need to distribute resources better, that we need to be truthful. Many of you, not everyone will have been happy and know how I try to reduce the number of peace dishes. I'll do it in consultation as much as I can. If I make a wrong decision once, I offer my humble apology, but someone has to submit the decision to the government eventually. As far as prisons and strikes are concerned, I am grateful to Walloon prison directors as Flemish. They're all doing their best.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u24	You forgot the bruxellois!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u25	I'm sorry, Mrs. Onkelinx. I made a mistake. I would like to thank the Brussels, Flemish and Walloon prison directors with all my heart. They all did wonderful work. They have done things for which prisoners will be grateful forever. I would also like to thank all those who have taken care of our prisoners. The Prime Minister did it before me, but I want you to know that it's a matter of heart. I have always said, already in the first judicial plan, that I would reduce the workload of the guards. Well, there's a thousand prisoners less than when I started. At 12,000, a thousand is significant, isn't it? If you have to hear magistrates say that the number of prisoners is increasing systematically, it hurts, ladies and gentlemen, because there are a thousand fewer prisoners. And there'll be a thousand fewer within the year. I always said I'd try to improve the infrastructure. I'm investing 56 million in renovation and security works this year, together with the Minister for Buildings. Moreover, we are well advanced in the negotiations. I'm not gonna say much about it, because I don't want to hypothesize them. You can ask all trade union representatives, we will discuss it in the most constructive spirit possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to end with a little anecdote. This morning, I received an important Chinese minister accompanied by a delegation, as many of us have done, to the office of Justice. The lobby was completely cleaned. Everything was resettled. The ladies who were in shock on Tuesdays were present to serve coffee. That is resilience, that is justice. And that's the policy I'm going to pursue all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u26	Prime Minister, Minister, with regard to the appeals that I have referred to and from the magistrates, clerks, secretaries, lawyers, associations, I have not heard any concrete response. They used to talk to the Minister of Justice using a decoder. When he says, "My door is always open," it means, "You can always talk; nothing will change." When he says, "We must perpetuate trust," he says, "Let me do it. I'm the one who knows." Or, "I'm doing my best, but I have to respect the government agreement," it means, "I'm a performer. Go look elsewhere." Now they have to get used to the answer of a Prime Minister who really abandons them, who has not opened any doors and who has simply said: "Yes, there is a certain misery, but I give you autonomy to manage it". That's not right! We understand better, Prime Minister, what you have said for years about public services, justifying your liberal will to reduce the means. You said, "We have to hunt for waste." As if investing in justice, security and prison was waste! By hiding behind grandiose speeches, you are participating in the work of dismantling the country. I say: your personal responsibility is engaged!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u27	Mr President, I have not received any answers to any of my questions. However, no answer can be very clear either, because from this I can only conclude that this government has no intention of achieving the legal personality of the trade unions, unlike Hollande, to whom Mr Dewael referred, who says that he will deal heavily with perpetrators of such crimes and destruction. This means that Parliament must do it itself. At the beginning of this legislature, we have once again tabled a legislative proposal to give full legal personality to the trade unions. Despite the fact that our proposals or our party are often called 'extremely wrong', many of you have come to the conclusion that we are also right, because I see that we are being followed up and that other colleagues and other parties have in the meantime put forward a similar proposal. Well, ladies and gentlemen of Open Vld and N-VA, show for once that you are in this House more than loud and loud for the government, show for once that you want to take action. Support these proposals and approve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u28	Mr President, I shall take a decision on three points. First of all, I will not enter into the controversy in which the Minister of Justice wants to train me. Colleagues, for me, a federal minister, it is always a lion, but a lion Belgium, as here, above this rostrum. No, I don't get into this polemic! All the rest is literature! Secondly, the Prime Minister has made – I would like to emphasize – a speech that is more respectful and more nuanced than what was said at the beginning of the week. This simply shows that the bite has already produced its effects. Thirdly, some of you, Mr Goffin in particular, have spoken with great emotion about the duty of reserve. But let us not speak here of the duty of reserve of the magistrates! Let's not talk about the judges' reserve duty! We are talking about the first president of the Court of Cassation. Anyway, that's what I did! He's not a judge like any other! He's a head of the body! Are you going to tell him the silence? Will you reserve the right to speak to him in the name of the power he embodies? That too is independence in a rule of law!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said and repeated on several occasions, the situation is extremely delicate, because it is unedited. Indeed, 24 days of strike in Belgium! We've never known that before! You must be able to live up to this unprecedented situation and see that Justice is crumbling everywhere and that public services are demanding legitimate means to function effectively. That's all they're asking for! And I am extremely disappointed, because, since last week, there has been absolutely nothing new. You're talking about future investments, masterplan, but how will these future masterplans, these future investments, provide a response to the current economy plan and the workforce reductions that we are experiencing? What solution are you going to bring to the deteriorating situation in prisons from day to day? I too would like to thank the directors for the work they do. They are on guard, sleeping in the prison to contain this situation and prevent it from exploding. Whether they are agents, soldiers, prisoners, too, everyone participates in it. But I can also tell you that if a solution is not found in the coming days, the situation will really deteriorate. We already have a dead man, I would like to remind you, without taking the blame on you. It is absolutely necessary to find an answer and today, alas, I have not received any satisfactory answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u30	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Geens that, indeed, we cannot be present in all the committees. However, in the Committee on Justice, I had just followed the preparation of potpourri II. I reviewed my notes and on 27 October 2015 you said: "This project is urgent because there are budgetary targets". That confirms what I said earlier, it is a budget plan. Secondly, Prime Minister, on prisons, I hear you say what you said last week. How far have we advanced? Zero centimeter. That's the reality! After three weeks on strike in the prisons, we didn't move a centimeter! The prison union leader said that the government was destroying public services. You're not a rogue state, you're a breaker state. You're deaf and sloppy, Prime Minister, except when it comes to threatening. Today we were given a rereading of Montesquieu by Mr. Charles Michel: "To be free, the judges must close it!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u31	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the opposition's colleagues. They say that we can't save first and then reform afterwards. Now, Mr Vanvelthoven, we have done the opposite. We have announced savings when this government takes office. The Minister of Justice then consulted with his department and working groups were set up, which have put forward proposals. The prison director has put forward counter-proposals. On this basis, processes of change have begun which will achieve even more savings than initially planned at the start of this reign. This is what we do in the area of prison policy, and more generally in the area of justice and also in other departments: reforms through consultation lead to better policies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first crisis of justice or of the prison system. We've been through a lot. We have solved all these crises with reforms. This government, with this Minister of Justice, is in the process of reform, including in the area of civil procedural law, criminal procedure and the construction of new prisons. Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, we ask you to continue these reforms in dialogue with the actors, without interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u32	Mr President, I would like to raise three points. Prime Minister, the fact that you are speaking here in a case of justice led me to suspect that you would take matters back into your hands. However, I have noted that you are quite right about the handling of the invoices of the previous government, your first policy act. On the banks of the majority, that gives applause. Allow me to remind you that the previous Minister for Justice, Mrs Turtelboom, was of liberal signature, and the previous Minister for the Budget, Mr Chastel, was also of liberal signature. In other words, you will be applauded for saying that this government has cleared the invoices of the previous government, but they are the invoices of the liberal excellences of the previous government. Secondly, I am surprised, and I am even more concerned, that we are talking here about the separation of powers, but that I have not heard anyone from the majority say anything about the statements made by the highest magistrate in this country. Nobody. It's almost aligned with what the opposition is saying here. The highest magistrate in the country makes statements, but the reaction of the majority, including Mr Dewael, also of the Prime Minister, is that the independence of the judiciary actually means that it should keep its mouth shut. The judiciary must not say what it thinks. She can't say her mind anymore. That's the message you're giving today. I will conclude, Mr President, with Mr Dewael's statement. It is clear to everyone and explains why we have not received an answer: don't look back, go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u33	Prime Minister, you have strongly, clearly and consistently recalled the founding principles of our law, and I thank you for that. Second, for those who still doubted your involvement in the file, you clearly replied that yes, you are fully involved in this file. Thirdly, the Minister of Justice, I hear the progress that is being made and I have no doubt that a solution will be found very soon. Fourthly, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, when emotion and urgency have passed, when calm has returned, I think it will be important to be able to hear from all the players in the prison world because they have a need, a thirst and a desire to be heard in order to participate positively in the evolution of our prison policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u34	Mr President, I will do something that rarely happens in the hemisphere and certainly is not expected of an N-VAS member: I will contradict my party chairman. There is an alternative to the government. That is the alternative to street violence, which is the alternative to non-binding propaganda, which is the alternative to taking the citizens hostage. Well, it is our belief that that is the alternative of a small minority. I would like to ask the government, and I am convinced that it will respond to this, and that the reform agenda will continue because it is a fair agenda. The same applies to the justice policy pursued by the minister concerned. That is why I believe that the government should be able to take on many blames. We make choices and that will provoke resistance. One reproach, ladies and gentlemen, we must not tolerate under any circumstances: that is the accusation that we would not accept our political responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u35	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven is not in favour of the summary report of the sitting. I have made it clear that independence does not mean that one is untouchable and that a judiciary, like any state power, is also subject to accountability and control. The rather free translation he made of that works somewhat on my laughing muscles; I do not think they are correct. Secondly, some people prefer the inconveniences of the status quo to the uncertainty of change; that is a statement by a Dutch Social Democrat, Mr van Dam. Don't let it upset you, Minister of Justice. The reform of justice, which some now seem to be calling into question, has been broadly drawn up following the Dutroux affair in the Octopus agreements. It is supported by a broad majority. I have to say that I find it rather strange that after two years of opposition some seem to distance themselves from it. We must continue with this reform in dialogue. As far as the guards are concerned, I would like to make it quite clear once again that the dialogue with the trade unions must continue, but that the weapon of strike also has its limits. We are very clearly in favour of the guaranteed service that needs to be provided. We have put forward a proposal for this. If it is not possible to do so in consultation with the social partners, Parliament must accept its responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost immediately after the terrible attacks of 22 March, I congratulated you on behalf of our group for having found the right words at the time, because you told our fellow countrymen what a prime minister was supposed to say at the time, here in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, very soon after that, our Prime Minister has fallen into his old habits. What are these habits? You let party presidents and ministers divide and argue. You're ignoring critical reports on the budget. You ignore the broad call for justice. You are abandoning your Minister of Justice in the difficult case of prisons, even to this extent, Prime Minister, that many people on the left and right, inside and outside this Parliament, are wondering: where is this Prime Minister, what is this man doing, why is he no longer taking control, why is he no longer the captain of this country? I say that from the deep conviction that this country is not a failed state. Belgium is not a failing state. Mr Vuye thinks so. The N-VA does and has said so here in the Chamber a few months ago: Belgium is a sick country, people of your majority. I don't think so. I think Belgium is a country with many opportunities that deserves better. You could be a prime minister of a country where windmills are being built instead of extending the life of old nuclear power stations. You could be a prime minister of a country where trains are on time, where the prisons are in order, where people are being properly received. You could be a prime minister of a country with fair taxes. You'd be a prime minister. I have one very simple question. Have you understood this broad call for ambition, for leadership, for vision, Prime Minister? Did you read that call? Will you follow up on this today? Please, this country deserves that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the appeal of the three personalities of the economic world in the daily newspapers of both the North and the South of the country, De Standaard and Le Soir, has had a certain echo, perhaps far beyond what white maps or statements of civil society are familiar with in normal times. This particular dimension lies first of all in the quality of the message delivered by the three authors; in their capacity and in the quality of the statement made. First, the quality of the people. In short, they are rather representatives of the employers' and economics' milieu, that is, the environment to which you are rather close. They question you with a message that we must probably do something other than what has been done so far. What has been done so far does not meet the country's deep expectations. That is what they express. Today, there is a lack of response to citizens' deep expectations. And then, the quality of their words, which are not meant to say: "All rotten! Policies must be excluded. Let's give room to technocrats!" Not at all! It is the rehabilitation of the policy they call for. Even better: the rehabilitation of the authority of the State, the role of the State. This role of the state that was too often wanted to eclipse, and whose importance they finally say in the surrounding climate of uncertainty. In the face of a call of this importance and quality, it is expected that the Prime Minister, directly questioned – just read their text – will respond to the height of what they express and not merely send back, through the speech of his party president, however eminent and often inspired, that there are consultation bodies and that it is enough to continue the usual ronronron. Because we have arrived at a crucial moment to know what the meaning of this State is and what its role is still. This is what the citizen perceives as a concern. So, Prime Minister, rise to the occasion! Don't just tell us you're determined. Pass, beyond the slogan, to action! Gather together, be a federator! If you do, you may then be able to claim to have done something other than the only mission that is yours at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, this week three top managers sent you an open letter. These three top managers, with a very important role in our country, are concerned. They lack strength and they actually call on you to take action. Prime Minister, this letter is not the first signal you have received. It's only one signal in a long line that you and your government have received. You will recall that last year more than a hundred thousand people came into the street to charge your invoice increases. People are willing to contribute, Prime Minister, but only if it is done in a fair manner. You will no doubt remember the various reports that show that your policy is not working. You have made a lot of contributions and yet your budget is not in order. You will undoubtedly remember the call of people who are working out of the seam today in very difficult circumstances to ensure our safety. I think about the security personnel, the courts and the police. For months, Prime Minister, you have received different signals from different angles. Every time the message is the same: we are not satisfied. I honestly cannot imagine that you, as Prime Minister, are satisfied. I have only one question. When are you finally going to take people's signals seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u39	Mr.President, Prime Minister, it is clear that on March 22, 2016, our country suffered a shock. Beyond the victims, it was all the Belgians who were confronted with this unprecedented attack, the tragedy. Then there was Belgium bashing. Coming from outside, some have probably not hesitated to blow over the embers of this Belgium bashing to gain some political advantage. Of course, the time is not easy, but we have to keep going. We have to stay on course, while listening. We were able to read, in the newspaper Le Soir, what was indicated by these three leaders. Prime Minister, we must tell them that, as far as Brussels tunnels, Walloon roads or the problems of French-language education are concerned, you have nothing to do with it. I think it's useful to remind him. You do not bear and this government does not bear on its back all the evils that this country can go through. It is essential to stay on course. Mrs Kitir, you said that our policy was not bearing fruit. That's not true! That is why we must keep this course. Information from the European Commission tells us that our budget is in line with the Growth Pact. We know, moreover, that the employment rate in our country is historically high, that the number of bankruptcies is historically low and that work is finally improved. It is therefore clear that everything is not going wrong! In this country, everything is not wrong! In this country, we are achieving results and, of course, we must ensure that we do not give in to the sinistrosis that a number of political opponents are putting on this government. I tell them: pay attention! You're here to hurt this government! You're trying to hurt this government! It's very serious that I ask you to be careful. In fact, Mrs Onkelinx, when you spoke of your tense stance earlier, you spoke of a failing state – and you do, it seems to me, have the meaning of the state – you were targeting the government and not the country. Don't be the wrong target!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u40	Prime Minister, I agree with you when you say that you must not pour in sinistrose. But we also need to be lucid. No, everything's not right! Belgium's image abroad is very bad. The newspapers are headlined "Belgium, the failing state". There are conflicts – we have just talked about them – in prisons and in justice. The police, the army, the intelligence services are at the end of the roll. There are major tensions with the social partners. And next week, a national demonstration is announced. We have a duty of clarity. You have a duty, Prime Minister, to be lucid. The appeal of the three business leaders, namely Bernard Delvaux, Johnny Thys, Baudouin Meunier, in Le Soir, but also in De Standaard is a tense hand to overcome the logic of the levels of power, to set up concrete projects in an effective way. Longer life, mobility, the whole stake on the employment and competitiveness of enterprises, security and energy are all vital projects for Belgium and concern all levels of power. This call is also a stretched hand to set aside political differences, to set aside resentments. It is also a tense hand for the policies and living forces of this country, civil society, to work together. Prime Minister, no doubt you are going to tell me that this must be done through a committee of consultation or an interdepartmental conference. But let us be honest, this consultation committee is not working well. And our institutional lasagna cannot function without that committee working properly. I see the appeal of these three leaders and, behind them, many others, as an opportunity to launch a new collective dynamic. Prime Minister, will you seize this opportunity and take the initiative to launch a new collective dynamic? That is what Belgium needs. This is what all citizens expect from politicians. Do it, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it a little strange to hear the speech of a number of political parties here, parties which, during the previous legislature, were naming heads of government when they criticized the government, but who are now asking to take these signals seriously. That's a bit of a weird attitude. If these captains or industry are asking to be bold, to see that the resources are limited, that the state cannot do everything, then we can of course only join them. Tax money must be used in a prudent way and must be used more efficiently. But if this government were to be a failed government, which cannot decide decisively, which cannot decide anything, which has no vision, which has no leadership, as Mr Calvo insinuates, that is to do with the truth. Not long ago, a minister here said he could pay the pensions until 2015. In a year and a half, this government has cut the cost of ageing and we guarantee everyone a pension. That's determination, that's leadership, that's vision. With the tax shift, we ensure that people who earn 1 500 euros gross, who get 1 500 euros gross out of bed, take their children to day care and go to work, get 80 euros extra net per month this year and 150 euros extra net per month from 2020. Again, making work pay, ensuring that people who work there are more left: that is determination, that is leadership, that is vision. In the first four months of this year we have raised the same amount in the fight against fraud as in the previous years, Mrs Temmerman. There too, we make a difference. With thirteen additional measures, we will only go further in this area. We are going to tackle the fraudulent constructions with branch and root instead of losing ourselves in a circle of self-employed bullying or in conducting semantic discussions. We are going to deal with that with branch and root, Mrs Temmerman, which is also a difference. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a failed government, this is a government that is radically reforming, implementing its decisions. Mr Prime Minister, what will you do to strengthen and speed up the implementation of these reforms? What will you do about those who do not agree with democratic reforms and who are threatening to shut down the country again, who are threatening to harm everyone again and who do not even shy away from violence? What will you do to prevent them from doing so and to ensure that we can continue our piste effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u42	Where's the Prime Minister? This is a question that many journalists were asking this morning, as well as a lot of citizens, probably a few entrepreneurs and also a lot of parliamentarians. Prime Minister, today, seventeen questions were addressed to you, whether you were there and whether everything was all right. More seriously, all these questions about your action, your role, your leadership are revealing a growing malaise, as the country goes through a delicate period of history: the attacks and what followed, the burning prisons, the justice system, the police in difficulty, the museums that take the water, the cracking nuclear power stations and the country, like the tunnels, which is crumbling. You will tell me, Mr Miller, that, for Belgium, the country that is crumbling is normal! Prime Minister, three bosses, three entrepreneurs, three CEOs made an urgent appeal: "Revitalize this country that makes it look like it's no longer working!" They ask you to take the initiative, to give the impetus. The impression that emerges from your first answer – and I hope you will take advantage of this forum to give another one – is that you are running away. You are discreet, absent, backwards from this issue. Refusing sinistrose – I heard Mr.Ducarme's comments and yours – of course, but that won't be enough. Launching a communication campaign, as you are about to do tomorrow, will not be enough. The question is very simple. What are you waiting for to respond positively to this call, to grasp the pole that is tense to you and to bring together all the active forces to revive the country? All the living forces, not just those of your government and your majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions addressed to me. I must tell you from the outset that this appeal to governments, and not just to the federal government in my view, I see it as a positive message, as a noble approach by citizens who play an economic role, are engaged and want to mobilize to bring their creativity, energy and enthusiasm to give this country a perspective. I therefore take this call as a positive, constructive, noble call, and I want to give it, together with the government, a response that is up to the challenge. From the start, we see it. In the expressions at the beginning of certain groups – and I say it with the real concern not to lower the level – we see that there is an approach to instrumentalise this call to damage Belgium and, through this lowering, attack a little foolishly, I must say, the government. On the other hand, I appreciate the comments you made, Mrs Fonck, in which I actually find myself. I believe that we must seize this opportunity, seize this opportunity because a shock has occurred: the shock of the attacks of 22 March which must lead us to see that there are questions, questions, doubts inside and outside too. We must live up to the challenge of providing a number of answers. I also want to be extremely clear. The danger facing us, and I feel it well, as some of you may feel, as many citizens have also felt since the 22 March attacks, is a general feeling of pessimism, sinistosis, conviction that everything would be wrong, everything would be catastrophic. I think the truth is in the middle. Yes, there are challenges. Yes, we are faced with difficult challenges. That's not new. This government immediately started strong, difficult and courageous decisions. We have also taken clear initiatives. That wasn't always obvious. We have had a lot of criticism in this House about our policies and our orientations. What am I establishing today? The first results are there. Those are the facts. The lowest unemployment rate in the last 25 years! The creation of new companies, 90 000 new companies. The net business start-up score, a significant reduction in the number of bankruptcies, the best score in the last ten years! Tax fraud? In a few months, more recipes than last year! The measures we are taking are beginning to bear fruit. Mr Nollet, in this House two weeks ago, I remember the harsh, brutal, abrupt criticism of the budget. Result? The European Commission says "Broadly Compliant"! We are in order with regard to the budget, as we had committed ourselves to it! Should we do more, should we do better? Yes! Should the lessons be learned from what is worse in an attempt to improve the situation? Should we continue to strengthen our strengths? Yes, of course! I see a number of initiatives to be taken on this subject. Tomorrow, in the Council of Ministers, we will certainly validate a proposal for a more structured international communication. We will also propose that the federated entities work together to implement a stronger communication strategy at the international level. We will also see if the private sector wants to mobilize with us. I know very well that communication is an important point, but it is not the only point. What matters is the additional results. Indeed, I also note that the Consultation Committee, in accordance with our Constitution and our institutions, should be the place where it should be possible to take additional, stronger initiatives. I also see – and this is not the first time – that we need to work even harder, not only at the departure of the Prime Minister, of the federal ranks, but also of the federated entities, so that this assembly is, more than it is today, a driving force, an engine for giving impulses, for giving prospects. My answer is: "Yes, I will make proposals within the framework of the Concertation Committee so that there is more impetus on major issues." As far as energy is concerned, we've been working on it for a long time. COP21 must be an ambition. We must succeed in mobilizing to ensure that the energy pact is a reality. Competitiveness, continuing to work for employment, training. We must succeed in giving our young people a perspective. We must do everything we can to ensure that security – we have seen it dramatically – is taken into account in all its dimensions at the federal level at the start of the federated entities. In a word, I conclude, I make an appeal. No sinistrose, no pessimism! Lucidity about our strengths, our results, our talents, our lucidity about the issues, the challenges before us! I am very determined, at 1 000 % focused on my task, to act to give a perspective. This is, at least, the commitment I am making with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u44	Colleagues, what has happened here is actually strange. A call is being made to our Prime Minister to show more leadership and ambition, and the Prime Minister's answer is that he calls on all forces in society. Prime Minister, you must take the lead! First of all, you must show ambition! You must not shirk responsibility. It is a difficult job, that of Prime Minister of Belgium, but it is an interesting job. You can make more of it than you do today. Yeah, we're having tough times. But pessimism, fear, conservatism, those are not the standards in this country. The doers, the reformers, the positive forces in Belgium are more numerous than the conservative forces, than the complainants and the sawers. You should be the ally of the doers and the reformers, instead of pushing them away. You reap what you have sown. Today you will face the first results of your choices. You have chosen to take budgetary efforts away from ordinary people. You have chosen that, with your majority. You have chosen a party in your majority that does not like this country, which does not want it to function. You chose to do that! You have chosen a party that wants to sow fear and division in society. The N-VA wants a failed state, the N-VA does not want Belgium to function! Prime Minister, that is a dangerous strategy. You're playing with fire. Those who sow fear and division will reap extremism. We see that today, and that is your responsibility. You should counter that as Prime Minister, but you won't today!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u45	Prime Minister, I did not think your answer would be agreed as well. I believe you cannot complete an answer without saying that you are always determined. That's probably the word you use most often. I'd like to believe that, but I'm still giving you the benefit of your determination. Maybe it leaves others more dubious or interrogators. But the call of these personalities asks us all, but you in particular, to go beyond the usual framework of relations of political power, to go beyond the usual framework of relations between levels of power, and to create a dynamic of convergence on a number of projects essential for the country's future. That is what they call their vows. For example, following the Dutroux case, Jean-Luc Dehaene had this capacity when he proposed to all parties that he should go to the table to negotiate a profound reform of the police and justice services, when the Octopus agreements, all democratic parties gathered around the table, were concluded. There was a dynamic that gave meaning to the role of the State and to the future of that State. But today you are held to the minimum service because you have in your majority a party that refuses you to assume a federative role. This is your tragedy, and it will remain so until the end of your role as Prime Minister: your weakness, and ultimately your failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u46	Mr Prime Minister, if anyone sees something that that person does not really want to know, then we are told that we belong, see and remain silent. That's kind of what you're doing right now. I have listened carefully to your answer. You say that there is a little bit of pessimism and that you understand that. Prime Minister, there is no pessimism, the signals you get from people are pure reality. I really wonder what else you need before you realize that. Would you like to receive another letter from someone else next week? When will it be enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you said, you are listening to the citizens' initiatives like those we saw this week. That's a good thing. We need the determination you posted to meet our socio-economic goals. These objectives create shared wealth for all Belgians. We must continue. I have also heard your willingness to come together in relation to the work that you want to pursue and engage more deeply in the context of the relationship with the federated entities at the level of the concertation committee. And I come back, in conclusion, to what you said: not to be the wrong target. Do not use Belgium bashing for political purposes. I bet that those who continue this process will be punished by the voter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u48	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the appeal of these three leaders is indeed not just for the federal government. It's a call to all politicians. All of you! But it is normal, if we want to turn this call into a success, for someone to take the lead. And it makes sense for you, as Prime Minister, to assume this leadership role. Because in the background, what do you say? You're saying that the bosses' call is an encouragement. But I am telling you, Prime Minister, it is an encouragement to do things differently, not to continue as today, to get out of our short-termism, at all levels of power, to come together, to work together on concrete projects. Whatever the framework in which we do it, we have to get out of our logic of levels of power and from each one of our skills at home. In essence, assume all your responsibilities as Prime Minister. Because you have an extraordinary chance to put on your captain's hat, to gather, to reconcile, to set a course, to bring together these different levels of power and the living forces, to implement these great projects over the long term. Like you, I'm determined. I'm determined to push you further. I am determined to try to make it possible for us to move all these projects forward together. And if we have to, Prime Minister, we owe it mainly to all Belgians. What we owe to the Belgians is to make this country work. All together. Otherwise, it will be the triumph of those who look at it with a goggle eye, especially the N-VA, who dreams of demonstrating that Belgium does not work. And I hope here that you, and all of us together, do not want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and, above all, for the drive you have shown in your reply. Mr Calvo, you know that a very sympathetic and delicious persiflage has been made of your person, in which you systematically ask about the figures. Perhaps, instead of constantly creating the mood here and playing the man, you could take a look at those figures. Perhaps you could take a look at the facts and the figures. Then you will see how much unemployment has fallen. Then you will see that there is new job creation in the private sector, that people are being helped to work and that people who work are being helped again. Mr Calvo, perhaps you could look at those figures. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to appeal not so much to the Prime Minister, but to all of us, particularly to the members of the four majority groups, when it comes to leadership. I would like to call for a joint effort to move forward together on the path of the reforms we have undertaken, to defend that path and to explain it to the people. There is a clear need for this. Let us continue along this path together. People have a right to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u50	Prime Minister, in response to your call, you answer three things: 1) no sinistrose, 2) the concertation committee, 3) a communication campaign. Let me tell you that it will not be enough to meet the challenges that entrepreneurs have pointed out: the challenge of mobility, a huge challenge in Belgium, the challenge of energy, you have quoted COP21 but there is still no burden sharing about the past, there is still no energy pact. They cited, like you, all these issues related to living together. It is not the three measures you propose that will suffice. Since you're talking about a communication campaign, I want to give you a slogan used elsewhere. Prime Minister, let's go! Get out of the way! Remove the chains from this austerity choice! Remove the chains of "short-termism" and above all, remove the chains of these centrifugal forces that are unfortunately in your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty about the subsidies for our offshore windmills. However, an agreement in principle was reached at the end of 2015 on the second revision of the support mechanism. There are two parks, Norther and Rentel, which are close to their financial close, but due to the uncertainty and uncertainty, the CEOs are calling the alarm and are not threatening to carry out their investments. There is therefore a real need for certainty and clarity. It appears that there is now a discussion about the so-called negative hours. Those are the hours when the windmills produce electricity, when there is no demand. Apparently you would have made a proposal to the nuclear cabinet, there would be a counter-proposal and you should now move on with the sector around the table. Madam Secretary, that raises a few questions. Why is the agreement in principle concluded at the end of 2015 now being revised? Didn't the problem of the negative hours come up at the time? Have you been instructed to enter into dialogue? What is the state of play? Have you had any meetings? When can we expect a final agreement and when will it enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, as I had the opportunity to say yesterday in committee, perhaps at a time when you were no longer there, I would point out that the European guidelines 2014-2020 provide for a reduction in support for renewable energies whose industrial maturity allows them to find better remuneration on the market and therefore, due to competition, to reduce the support consumers provide them in the countries. In the end, it is indeed the consumer's bill that is impacted. We have included this will of the European Commission in our government agreement. As you pointed out, a first government decision came late last year, in November 2015, when we had already taken a step forward, always in consultation with the parks and precisely with the two parks, Norther and Rentel, which are to be closed soon. Since this is an aid scheme, we have pre-notified it to the European Commission, which has asked us a number of questions. In this context, the European Commission has questioned our system of negative hours, which is not the same as in Holland or other countries. The price that is included in the technical configuration of our negative hours system is not the same as that used in other countries, it obviously gives stronger support. To answer these questions, what we have begun to do, we have continued the consultation with the parks and we are now moving step by step with the Kern who will be making a decision soon, without me telling you, as I speak to you, whether it will be tomorrow or a little later. We are close to the moment when we can finally close our discussions in order to be in phase, on the one hand, with European requirements and, on the other hand, with our creed in this government which tends to give priority also to the consumer and to avoid the explosion of the consumer's electricity bill, the residential consumer and the company. We need to find this balance that allows Norther and Rentel to do their closing but also the policy of this government to deploy in accordance with European guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u53	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Madam Secretary. We face enormous challenges in terms of energy and climate. There is a great deal to be invested in renewable energy. There is no doubt that we still need to grant subsidies to the offshore energy sector, but we also need to be vigilant about over-subsidisation. The question arises as to how far our subsidies should go to attract investment on the one hand and, on the other hand, to keep it affordable for families and businesses on the other. It is important, as you said, to find a balance and to create a basis for support. We hope that you will continue your dialogue with the sector and that it will be clear very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, welcome to the Federal Parliament. I wish you every success. As a West Flemish, I would like to wish you as much energy and perseverance as your predecessor, but we have every confidence in that. Mr Secretary of State, a number of important files are already on your plate. Last Friday, the Council of Ministers gave you a mandate to reform the Privacy Commission. Please note, the Privacy Commission is an independent supervisory body set up by the Chamber. However, at the request of Europe, the Privacy Commission must reform and professionalise. What is the situation in our country? Since 1992, we have had good privacy legislation. Good laws and rules are important, but they must also be enforceable. Technology has evolved enormously recently. Personal data has become economically very valuable, especially for international companies whose names we all know. People are also more concerned than ever and want their personal data to be handled with care. So far, the Privacy Commission has mainly taken on an advisory role, but it will have to do more. A sort of privacy watchdog will have to be created. What proposals will you put on the table? What's your timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u55	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the Privacy Commission is indeed subject today to legislation dating back to 1992. Times have of course changed and this requires that our Privacy Commission can also look at a number of things in a different way and play on the ball less than is possible today. There is also a European regulation that obliges us to review and evaluate the tasks of the Privacy Commission. These are the two major components that demonstrate the need for the reform of the Privacy Commission. Indeed, the European regulation requires, as you point out, that administrative penalties can also be imposed on companies. This also changes the philosophy of the Privacy Commission, from a purely advisory and supervisory body to a genuine administrative body. How we will deal with this requires some thought. Initially, my approach focuses on consultation. There is a real need for consultation around privacy, first and foremost with Parliament, as you point out. Today, the Privacy Commission is dependent on Parliament. My intention is first of all to have proper consultation with the people here in Parliament in order to see which way we should go. I also want to consult with the Privacy Commission itself. She has a lot of expertise. The Privacy Commission therefore has its own role to play. Thirdly, stakeholders and consumers will also be involved in the planned consultations. The broad lines are very clear and are also laid down for a large part in this European regulation. It must be an independent body which must also be able to impose fines. Furthermore, there must be democratic accountability. As far as professionalisation and slimming are concerned, my visits this week in the Netherlands and next week in France also inspire us to professionalise the Privacy Commission and to bring in more expertise. So the conclusion is clear to me. At first, there will be a lot of consultation. We have a very tight timing for this, because in May 2018, that reformed Privacy Commission needs to take action and it needs to be able to work with our privacy. As you know, privacy is a fundamental right. We can't play with that. It is important that we deal with this in a good way and that our citizens have more control over the data than they do now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u56	Mr De Backer, I would like to congratulate you on your first intervention in this Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u57	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very clear answer. I remember that the timing is very tight, by May 2018. I also remember that the working method includes consultation with Parliament and the Privacy Committee, so that in future that committee will be able to operate as an independent regulator. I also remember that the reform is important not only for the privacy of our citizens, but also for our economy and businesses, who then know what to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u58	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u59	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the National Assembly of the Republic of Lebanon expressed my condolences. On the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, a message of support and condolences came from the National Assembly of the Lebanese Republic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u60	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I propose to you that the legislative proposal (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance and to ensure the free choice of a lawyer at any stage of legal proceedings under legal aid insurance contracts, Nos 192/1 to 3, be sent back to the Justice Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I propose that you refer the bill (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 and aiming to guarantee the free choice of a lawyer in any judicial phase, in the framework of a legal protection insurance contract, Nos. 192/1 to 3, in the Justice Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u61	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I propose that on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, the legislative proposal (Mrs Philippe Goffin, Mr Denis Ducarme, Richard Miller, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Olivier Chastel) amending the law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions as regards assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, should be entered in Nos 670/1 to 6. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I propose that the bill be placed on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session (MM. Philippe Goffin, Denis Ducrame, Richard Miller, Gilles Foret and Olivier Chastel) amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures concerning assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence, Nos. 670/1 to 6. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u62	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1124: Yoleen Van Camp - 1209: Els Van Hoof, Nahima Lanjri, Roel Deseyn, Franky Demon - 1425: Anne Dedry, Muriel Gerkens, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three motions for resolutions. (Sentence)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u63	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1124/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1124/5) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its resolution on the notification to the European Union of a positive nutrition label." The title in Dutch has been amended by the committee in resolute on the notification to the European Union of a positive nutrition label '. The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u64	Mr President, my colleague Piedboeuf and I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u65	Mr President, the timing for the discussion of this motion for a resolution could not be better, because today we have again been widely discussed in the media that we are dealing with an obesity problem, in particular as regards the problem of sugar in food products. I would like to give a very brief introduction to the why of this resolution. In this country, one in two people is too thick and, if we can believe the WHO calculations, 7% of total health expenditure is spent on this, a small EUR 2 billion. The evolution of the problem is particularly important. When we look at the health survey, which maps out the problems of Belgian BMI, we see that the prevalence of overweight has increased from 41% to 48% and from real obesity from 11% to 14%. According to studies obesity would have a similar effect on the body as no less than twenty years of aging. Obesity is also linked to all kinds of chronic conditions, such as cancer, many people don't know this, high blood pressure, diabetes, sleeping problems and so on. There is also the important health economic aspect. If we can believe the OECD figures and translate them into our situation, then we can see that the 14 percent obese Belgians are responsible for annual additional costs of 450 million euros. If we add the 3.8 million Belgians who are overweight, we will have another 100 to 400 million euros per year depending on what costs we directly or indirectly include. Together, this leads to EUR 1 billion in additional costs. Typically for our group, I must point out that it is very difficult for the state structure of this country to tackle problems such as obesity. Firstly, we see, for example, that the problem is very different according to the parts of the country. I'm just picking something out. The proportion of obesity among young people in Brussels and Wallonia is about 25%, while in Flanders it is only 16%. The most important aspect is that the Flemish government is and remains competent for prevention, while the treatment is at the federal level. In other words, Flanders never reaps the benefits of prevention efforts. Moreover, it does not have the means to do so. I shall come to the solution, as proposed in the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u66	Mrs Van Camp, I would like to take that. We fully agree with the noble aim of this motion for a resolution, but you are right to point out the overlap with Community competence. I believe that the second and third points of the resolution itself have been misunderstood, in the sense that they do not take account of the excess of powers. In this resolution, the initiative to sit together with the Flemish level is based on the federal level, which is just within Flemish competence. I understand your concern, but I would certainly have reworded that in the second and third points of the resolution, rather than putting the initiative at the federal level before the competence of the Flemish Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u67	Mrs Pas, in my opinion this is contained in the resolution. There are also regular channels for this, for example the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which is looking into this. These channels exist; we only refer to them. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to a solution, it is important to know that obesity cannot be tackled simply by putting forward one particular aspect, as we are doing today, for example, with the labelling of food. Clear consumer information is important, but it is certainly not the only solution. If we want to eliminate obesity and obesity, we need a global approach. It is important, however, that consumers are clearly informed and helped to make a healthy choice at a glance in the shop. With a number of examples, I show that making choices is really not easy for consumers. Anyone who's seen the About Food program knows that by now. Potatoes contain three times less calories than rice. Brown bread contains more calories than white bread, but is healthier and less fatty. Questions also arise about what is healthy and how many calories a product contains. Dried fruits, for example, contain a lot of calories, but are healthy. In this mess, consumers find it difficult to find their way. That will help the present proposal. Originally, our group had opted for a positive labelling of food, by putting a logo, a tick, on the front of the food packaging. We wanted this logo to be made clear at European level. Other proposals have been put forward by colleagues from other groups, including CD&V and Ecolo-Green. These include other choices, for example the red traffic light system. It should be noted that other systems are also being applied. For example, Australia works with a star system. To make the right choices, we in the committee decided to proceed to hearings with all stakeholders. Public institutions, industry, consumer associations and representatives of scientific institutions were invited. The rapporteur referred to the written report. I shall confine myself to what has been discussed in the hearings and what we have included in the resolution, which we have adopted together. There is currently no consensus with all stakeholders. That is what we want to achieve. Consultation is required on what exactly we want to implement. First of all, we want a harmonised approach at European level rather than national initiatives, which, of course, are not ideal with our market forces. There are still important reports on the shelf, for example a report from the European Commission. By 2017, we expect a report on the alternative forms of nutrition labelling used in the Member States. Whatever system is chosen, the monitoring of the effects is important. Of course, I have already referred to it myself. Food labelling is only one aspect and it is not the solution to obesity. It must be embedded in a global approach. An important aspect that the BFSA has put forward is attention to the small entrepreneur, who is already getting caught up with labelling measures and who should be able to keep up with them in practice. Everyone also agrees on the need for a scientifically based approach. All stakeholders are eager to participate in this. Another study I forgot to mention, and it's coming up, is the CLYMBOL study. It has been said that we need to consider carefully what system we should use. We cannot put something forward and take it from the point of view if it is not, then it does not harm. The FLABEL study has clearly shown that it is also possible that certain nutritional claims, such as for light products, whose aim was to make consumers eat healthier, could have an opposite effect. We certainly want to take care of this in our proposal. That is why we sat down together after the hearings and, together with the majority groups and Ecolo-Green, produced a summary of the hearings and submitted that text to the committee. The text responds to the comments of all stakeholders: consumer associations, scientific research institutes, industry and public institutions. The text responds to all the comments made during the hearings. We want to embed the proposal in a multifocal approach, in consultation with the Länder. The reality with which we are still living today is that the powers in this area are divided over different levels. We specifically call for the various possibilities to be explored, both in terms of the available scientific information that we currently have and in terms of the various existing systems in the Member States. We ask that we look at which systems work there and what effects they have. It is important that then all the parties involved should sit around the table in order to arrive at a clear system, embedded in a global plan, which, however, does not ignore European reality and therefore prefers a uniform approach. Finally, regardless of which system is being implemented, we call for the necessary monitoring of the system and attention to be paid to the smallest operators in the chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u68	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our committee has been looking for some time at the labelling of foodstuffs. After a number of hearings, we have led to a motion for a resolution to introduce a supplementary labelling system on food packaging. In recent decades, obesity has become endemic in Western societies. I will not go back to the figures that have been quoted in committee. In any event, it is important to act to address this situation, which also affects children. If, as we are accused of doing, we only deal with one aspect of the problem, this food labelling system will make it easier for consumers to find themselves in the complex information on the labels. It should also enable them to find simpler and healthier alternatives to products that potentially promote overweight. Clearly, there is an urgent need to ensure the right of consumers to make choices on the basis of correct, clear and understandable information. As noted in committee, this work will have to be done in collaboration not only with the food industry but also with consumer organisations, the medical and academic world. The implementation of such a measure will not be possible without the cooperation and cooperation of the federated entities. This is a fundamental element. In fact, it is not enough to take initiatives at the federal level, but it requires the participation and commitment of the federated entities. It will also be necessary to consider directives at European level or, in any case, to make a number of calls for initiatives to be taken at this level. It seems essential that better harmonisation in this area takes place, beyond mere national initiatives. I will not be surprised if you say that the MR Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Today, consumers who do not know exactly the content of their plate require clearer information about packaging, and therefore the quality of their content. That is what the motion for a resolution before you is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u69	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution before us today makes the following observation: obesity is becoming increasingly important in our country. It's a reality. The World Health Organization believes that a true epidemic in Europe can be expected by 2030. In view of the harmful health consequences and the cost of obesity to the health care budget, action should be taken. My group is fully aware of this and shares this commitment to finding effective solutions. The solution put forward by this resolution is the establishment of a uniform, clear and understandable complementary food labelling system. That's a good lead, one of the leads! Such a system can contribute to healthier choices and a healthier food supply. But labelling does not in itself have the sole purpose of combating obesity; it alone will not be able to combat the scourge of obesity. When we read the various texts that were on the table, we had many questions and concerns. The first was whether progress should be made on a labelling system at national level, while at the same time the authors rightly advocated harmonisation at European level. Unfortunately, the resolution under consideration today does not come to an end. It envisages the establishment of a system specific to our country, while always seeking uniformity at European level. Let me find that somewhat inconsistent. As we know, the labels have diversified. They have multiplied in recent years. We felt that a thorough reflection should be carried out in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u70	I'd like to formally contradict that. We're clearly making a choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u71	Just a minute. We must give Mr Senesael an earpiece so that he can listen to the translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u72	I must contradict the fact that we would not make a clear choice. It has been discussed very extensively in the hearings and in committee meetings that, of course, a European uniform approach is preferred. I have repeated this in my speech. After all, we have an open market. Products labeled "I choose consciously" are already in the shelves today. Hence the importance of a uniform approach. In the meantime and in the absence of it, we want action to be taken at national level. All players have also endorsed this in the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Van Camp. In the rest of my text, I will return to your statement. We felt that a thorough reflection should be carried out in this context and, from the outset, we knew that it would be extremely complicated to legislate in this area. That was pointed out very quickly, as you said, during the hearings we conducted. This resolution, which we see as an empty shell, attests to it. I hope that the government has not waited for this resolution to organise a round table with the parties involved in food labelling, to learn about what is being done in other European countries or to advocate at European level for the implementation of a clear and understandable labelling system. Beyond the labelling system chosen, which in any case deserves much more thought, knowing that there is currently no consensus on the most effective model, we can ask ourselves what you really want through this resolution. Are you considering a mandatory or voluntary labelling system? Member States are only allowed to take measures which are from a voluntary perspective. However, according to the hearings, failing to make this system mandatory would undoubtedly cause him to lose his strength. Are you considering setting conditions for the award of the label by a competent authority, such as the Public Health FPS or by an external organisation? Are you considering labelling only for prepackaged or unpackaged foods? Do you already consider taking into account specific nutritional, dietary or dietary criteria in the choice of labelling? We are still asking ourselves questions at this stage. You'll tell me it's better than nothing. In view of the time we have devoted to this dossier, the discussions we have had, the hearings that have been conducted, and the fact that we were not in a position to identify concrete avenues in this field, it would undoubtedly have been better to put the dossier aside, to give ourselves time to think about it again, to wait...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u74	Of course we don't make a choice, I told you that. We had a concrete choice on the table. I think that you were not present at the hearings and that you, as rapporteur, did not take the time to read the report either, because that is all in the text. It says that it is not appropriate to make a choice; it is even stated literally everywhere that there is no consensus yet. What system do you want to put forward, against the will of consumer organisations, but also of industry, scientists and public institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u75	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your speech, but I cannot accept your comments that I would not have read the report. That's absolutely not true! I don't think that's very honest of you. On the other hand, I confirm that our decision was not to follow up on the case directly, but to let it mature so that Europe could move towards more harmonised provisions. I think I also said that in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u76	It is, therefore, literally stated that we want to go for that approach. I would also like to make a correction. You say it is not possible to impose a mandatory system. The FOD has said this very clearly in the presentation, which once again proves that you have not mastered it. Unique labels may be provided through the scheme of the Claims Regulation No. It is also possible to regulate the use of cholesterol, but also to regulate multiple indicators for food labelling in accordance with Regulation No. 1169/2006
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u77	Mr President, I would like to add to what Mr Van Camp said. If we go for a system, we can only choose one system. That must indeed be certified by the government. We can't choose different systems. What matters is that there is support. Producers should not follow the procedure, they are not obliged to apply those labels. However, the consultation is crucial to get as many producers as possible for one system. To say that we should opt for a system today would be very wrong. A system is then imposed which is very likely not to be followed by different producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u78	In any case, our group's position is clear, we wanted to wait for progress at European level and the results of scientific studies, instead of voting for this text in haste. To conclude, I repeat Anthony Robbins: "A real decision is measured by the fact that you have taken a new action. If there is no action, you have not really decided." That is why my group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I myself tabled a motion for a resolution which differs in a few details from what is being proposed jointly today. The reasons for this are clear, for all my fellow Members who have signed with us. People need to adopt a healthier lifestyle and the government is a facilitator for that. It can provide incentives and better information on nutrition. It has been said repeatedly: the increase in obesity is a global concern, it is an epidemic according to the World Health Organisation. In 2014, 45% of the Belgian population had a BMI higher than 25, of which 16 % were effectively obese. However, 80% of Belgians consider their dietary habits to be quite good to very good, while the health survey clearly shows the opposite. Action is therefore needed. An established fact is that overweight and obesity are known risk factors for non-transferable diseases, which have been mentioned earlier. A healthy and balanced diet, limiting the amount of saturated fats, salt and sugar, is therefore a crucial link. The present proposal for a resolution does not suggest that it responds to all the challenges of food policy. It remains necessary to stress, among other things, the importance of a healthy lifestyle, including the competence of the Flemish government, the beneficial effect of physical activity and the dangers of excessive alcohol and tobacco consumption, a problem which our federal government is also addressing. Food labelling or labelling is one piece of puzzle, which fits into an integrated approach to obesity and obesity. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of food labelling is not new. The European Directive on labelling was already adopted at European level in 2011. That directive, which entered into force at the beginning of 2014, lays down a number of minimum provisions and allows producers, as I said earlier, to voluntarily provide additional information for the consumer on the packaging, provided that certain conditions are met. In our motion for a resolution, we ask the federal government to inform consumers in a clear way by means of symbols about the amount of fat, sugar and salt that contains a particular product. An adapted and clear food label will not in itself cause a revolution. However, such a label will ensure that a consumer has maximum freedom of choice. So our proposals do not say what consumers should or should not do, we would not dare; we only ensure that they can choose a product more targeted or not, based on transparent and easy-to-understand information and symbols. Many surveys have already shown that consumers are asking for this. What that food label should look like, let's go in the middle today. The experts we heard during the hearings did not opt for a particular system either. They haven't spoken out on that. In our motion for a resolution we deliberately did not opt for a particular system, such as the British traffic lights system or the Dutch IKB system. One of the reasons is that at both European and international level there are several examples of such labels, each with their advantages and disadvantages. That is why, in our text, we have only expressed our opinion on the modalities for such a label. There are three aspects to this. Firstly, the scientific research, which is very much present and which must be compared by the federal government. The second important element is that all those involved must make their contribution. Consumer organisations, the food industry, the government and the academia must assume their responsibilities. Only if they agree will we have a label worn in Belgium. It is a commonplace to say that the food industry is against it. A FEVIA survey shows that this is not the case, and I think that the time is ripe for the various stakeholders of the food label to support it. Thirdly, we should not try to reinvent the hot water. There are many foreign initiatives, not all of which I will list. Of the surrounding countries, France has recently adopted a new food label. It is important to compare the advantages and disadvantages of these systems. Before 2017, the year in which a European report on food labelling with its advantages and disadvantages and its impact on consumers and the food industry is published, it is advisable to start consultations with all stakeholders in Belgium to see what direction we are evolving and what system we could put forward. As Mr Senesael rightly pointed out, there are several European developments. There is nothing we can do about that, but it does not mean that we have to move towards a system, because it is so strongly supported by the consumer. The purpose of the resolution proposal is to achieve harmonisation. We are in favour of this and at European level we will contribute to the 2017 report. We will indicate to what extent we have already started consultations and what might be the best system for Belgium. Our proposal is to make that a quick win. People want to know what they eat, people want to know what they might get fat from. In that sense, I think it could be a quick win for the federal government, and more particularly for the Minister of Health, to make that quick work. The system is not only important in terms of information, ladies and gentlemen, but can also be an incentive for producers to change the composition of their products. In the Netherlands it has been found that since the introduction of such a system producers want to have such a label and deliberately bring down the fat, salt or sugar. In this way they offer healthier food to consumers. In short, it has the good side effect that our products will become healthier in this way. I am therefore convinced of the impact of these labels on consumers, although it is too early to determine what such labels should look like in terms of content and form. However, such a system allows consumers to make healthier choices, and that is what is intended. I therefore ask you to approve the resolution on food labelling, and I ask the government to start discussions quickly to arrive at a single system and to call for harmonisation at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said. I won't repeat it all. However, I would like to briefly express the urgency of this resolution for our group. The purpose of a food label is to make it easier for people to find their way into the complex information that is on food packaging labels today. With this resolution, we ask the Minister to launch a broad consultation with all interested parties on the introduction of a system of complementary labelling of food products. We deliberately do not express our preference. We do not say which system we prefer. After all, many food labels already exist in Europe. Each has its own advantages and disadvantages. It is therefore desirable that we should ask the European countries which have already introduced a food label about the effect it has had there. Then we need to consult with all stakeholders. Sensitisation and prevention actions by the Communities and the federal government in the field of healthy nutrition and movement have taught us that realising behavioural changes is not easy. It's not because people know something's unhealthy that they change their behavior. The resolution therefore rightly stresses that a nutrition label is not the solution to the problem of obesity. It can at most contribute to improving the situation. A label can help people to assess more easily whether or not what they hold belongs to the healthier products. The hearings also taught us that even nutrition labels do not guarantee that people allow their buying behaviour to be influenced by labels. After all, there are many other factors that determine their purchasing behaviour. Perhaps more importantly, and this was also mentioned by Mrs Van Hoof, the fact is that food producers, in order to obtain the label, will speed up the reformulation of their products, aiming at less sugar, less salt, less fats and more unsaturated fats. I would like to emphasise the need to include a possible label in a global plan, with a permanent emphasis on prevention and on the teaching of healthy dietary habits, especially for children and young people. This is a role that the Communities must play. We will also have to cooperate with the Communities in this regard if we are to succeed. If we were to introduce a label, it is essential that we inform people very well about what such a label teaches us about the content of products. Open Vld asks the Minister to investigate to what extent the use of behavioural sciences can help us lead people to healthy diets. We know that the Public Health Office already uses behavioural sciences. I look forward with great interest to the added value that behavioural sciences could have on the eating habits of the Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a resolution on food labels for us. This is the result of positive and constructive cooperation from the opposition. After all, I share the concern of my colleagues from N-VA and CD&V that at the moment the consumer really does not know what he is getting on his plate. Protecting public health means primarily reducing the risk of deception and providing consumers with correct, fair and correct information. That is the main reason why we have decided to participate in a joint amendment, which improves the resolution and has exceeded the limits of majority and opposition. It has already been pointed out by several speakers that the aim here is not to eliminate obesity. We're not naive. However, better food labelling helps us make a small step forward in the fight against non-transferable diseases and also against obesity. Food labels are one thing. However, to remedy obesity, much more is needed. However, it is a first step. This resolution is not about an overall policy against obesity. It is about clarity, through a visible label with the sign on the front of the packaging, which is very important in order to make the consumer better informed. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we wanted to go further with the resolution. A very important figure is that 91 percent of Belgians are in favour of government intervention to promote a healthy diet. That is therefore a broad consensus. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally wanted to move forward. Mr Senesael has already asked why one label cannot be chosen. Why are we not yet far enough away to argue in favour of the colour codes and the traffic lights system? If it had been up to us, we would have liked to have seen it. Of course, we would also like to see Belgium playing a leading role outside the European framework with voluntary measures. Nevertheless, we would like to approve the resolution because we are pleased that some of our amendments have been accepted, including the amendment that proposes to provide clear and clearly visible information on the front of the packaging. Of course, I do see a few missed opportunities. I've already mentioned the first missed opportunity. We do not explicitly opt for a traffic light system, which we believe has already produced a lot of good evidence-based results. However, there were differences of opinion. A second missed opportunity has already been mentioned. The fact that we do not work on the nutrient profiles is also a missed opportunity at the moment. I conclude, however, by stressing that we absolutely believe that the resolution is a first good step in the right direction. The proverb states: better one bird in the hand than ten in the air. So let's start with this one bird in the hand. That is why Ecolo-Green will vote in favour of the resolution on the basis of a constructive and positive attitude. We want healthy food on the shelves, with clear information that people understand and with which the food industry cooperates fairly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u82	Colleagues, I'm going pretty fast. I have not fully understood the purpose of the resolution. If its objective was, in essence, to work in the field of an extremely important public health problem, namely obesity and overweight, and above all their consequences, whether it be type 2 diabetes or cardiovascular pathologies, then this resolution fails to address these issues. In committee or in plenary, you have all referred at length to these issues, their impact, the evolution of the problem, the number of young and old people who are affected. But the question of the labelling of foodstuffs is never but a very isolated and ad hoc element of a much wider problem. We have proposed in committee to hold a much broader debate, with a real public health approach, on obesity and overweight. You have not acceded to this point. Whatever. I think it's a shame to see this problem through the little bit of the lorgnette.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u83	Excuse me, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Van Camp is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u84	Mrs Fonck, the resolution states that this is one aspect of an overall approach. We are certainly open to a debate. Nothing prevents you from adopting this resolution today and then discussing all other possible measures in an overall approach. We are also looking forward to your proposals on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u85	Madam, I do not withdraw in any way, even in spite of your reaction, what I have just said. I persist and sign. When one wants to have a scientific, rigorous and above all ambitious approach to this public health issue, it is obviously not only one aspect and only one end of the lorgnette. If, on the contrary, the objective of your resolution was to work on another issue, different but equally important, namely the problem of food labelling, which far exceeds the nutritional aspects – they are one point but not the only one –, then again, unfortunately, you have missed the objective. Should we recall the E100, E200, E300, E400 which concern all food additives? You're here with your magnifying glass, but you don't always know what's going on. Is it worth mentioning the example of parents, whose children are allergic to a number of food contents for which the readability, access to information at the level of labelling is, so to speak, almost zero for a person who is neither a scientist nor an expert in these matters? If your goal was to enlighten the public on food labelling and content, you have, I repeat, failed. Finally, I would like to say how surprised I was at the content of the motion for a resolution. We are in the House, in a parliamentary assembly, and we are going to vote on a resolution that asks the minister to hold a round table. Minister Borsus, I have no doubt that you will tell the Minister of Health that she must hold a roundtable. We are here in the House to vote on a resolution, which asks the Minister of Health to seek information from other European countries. I thought that European benchmarking was obvious, not just for ministers. As parliamentarians, we could do some European benchmarking on all these issues. I find that a motion for a resolution is being voted on to ask the minister to pay particular attention to basic scientific research. I dared to believe that both the Minister of Health and we parliamentarians were as inclined, at least I am, to follow scientific research closely. This matter seems to me to be part of the day-to-day work of a government or even parliamentarians. We will therefore abstain from this text. I remain convinced that these are major issues, public health issues, but also issues in relation to the general public, who have a great deal of difficulty in finding themselves there in terms of readability, understanding of labels, especially on food. We will abstain because, to say the word, the content as such of the resolution is not ambitious at all. That's too bad. You miss a major goal. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future we will be able to work with a little more ambition and consistency on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u87	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ine Somers, Jan Vercammen, Dirk Janssens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u88	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1605/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1605/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u89	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u90	Mr President, I take the floor on behalf of my colleague Jan Vercammen, who is absent and apologized today. He asked me to mention the following when discussing this motion for a resolution on immuno-oncotherapy. Belgium in general and Flanders in particular are in the leading group of the latest biotechnological developments. Both academic and industrial we are at the top. Our scientists are doing ground-breaking work in this area, as is also regularly noted in the media and at the 2015 conference held here. Immunotherapy is a promising pillar. These are new medications that are able to support our own immune system in the fight against various forms of cancer. Our own natural weapons are being activated and made more powerful, and the results of this have become visible in recent years. This sector is not only a jewel in terms of prestige and appearance, but also provides a higher quality of life for the patients concerned. It is very hopeful medication and the sector also employs many thousands of people, from ordinary workers to top brains. With the present resolution, we want to start by underlining the importance of this sector, both for patients through care in the fight against cancer, and for our jobs and our economy. We would like to warn our fellow Members in this hemisphere about future developments, which will not only be limited to the fight against cancer. These developments will confront us with choices. The latest therapies are announcing themselves as a budgetary challenge. We shouldn't be getting carried away with that. We as legislators will be asked for wisdom and determination. On the basis of a sound cost-benefit analysis, we will have to assess where and when we can use the scarce resources correctly. This debate will always come back and we certainly want to have it. Our group will continue to act as a good family father and housemother, paying attention to evidence-based medicine and health technology assessment. Wisdom and file knowledge are needed. We should not be haunted by individual dossiers that do not take into account the overall cost and cost-benefit analysis. We can only base our choices on budgetaryly feasible and practically calculated dossiers, providing transparency as to why some proposals are being made and others are not. High moral principles will sometimes clash with expensive medication and the economic reality of a health care that must remain affordable for all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u91	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, improving access to treatments such as immunotherapy for cancer patients is obviously essential. This has always been one of our group's priorities. The implementation of the National Cancer Plan by my colleague Laurette Onkelinx, when she was Minister of Health, is an important example of our interest in the issue. My group, as he said in committee, can only agree with the objectives of my colleagues' proposal. However, we also know that today we are talking about the development and accessibility of treatments that are extremely expensive. Unfortunately, the exchanges that took place in committee did not allow us to obtain clear answers to the questions that we legitimately ask ourselves in this context. For what indications and criteria will patients have access to immunotherapy? How many patients will actually have access to reimbursement for this treatment? What budget is the government prepared to spend on this innovative approach when it only saves money at all levels, including in our health care? Under the €350 million package for the reimbursement of innovative therapies, what will be the share of immunotherapy? It therefore seems to me that adopting such a resolution is also a clear commitment that a specific and important budget can be made available. Today, we have not obtained any assurance in this regard. If we fully support the objectives of this text, we simply fear that these are false hopes given to patients. That is why we will abstain today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u92	Minister, everyone agrees, including specialists and scientists, that immunotherapy is a revolution. This will obviously upset the management of cancers. For some, immunotherapy is even considered a fourth weapon after surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy. That is why we have had debates in committee. The text before you today begins by addressing the need to invest in research, particularly in clinical research. The sector must remain an important driver of innovation. Our country, which in its time was the specialist in clinical trials, must in the future remain one or more of the leaders in clinical trials. It is also important to encourage research on different possibilities of luminotherapy as a treatment for other types of cancer. Currently, positive results are shown for melanoma and lung cancer, but other cancers will be targeted in clinical studies. Mr Senesael, you have just mentioned that the original text did not address the issue of the reimbursement of new luminotherapy for Belgian patients. That is the whole financial problem. Since the budget is obviously not extensible, as has been said in committee, these treatments must of course be evaluated not only at the medical level but also in terms of cost-effectiveness. We need to be able to cover the costs of treatment that can be offered to all. Mr Senesael, in committee, we have therefore introduced an amendment, which has also been adopted, so that this aspect takes into account the available budget for innovative medicines and the demonstrable therapeutic added value. The Minister is committed to doing this analysis, if any. In order not to argue and certainly not to repeat what has already been said, I would simply say that our group supports this motion for a resolution, being convinced, on the one hand, that it highlights, at the heart of the debate, a new revolutionary treatment for cancer treatment and, on the other hand, that it clearly puts forward a new hope for cancer patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one in three Belgians faces cancer in his life. These figures immediately show us the importance of a good treatment method. In recent decades, several treatments have been developed: radiotherapy, chemotherapy, hormone therapy and molecular therapy. The common feature of these therapies is that they fight the cancer cells from outside. For some cancers, those classic strategies unfortunately do not or hardly lead to a solution. The chances of survival in these cancers are patheticly low. A classic example of this is melanoma. After many decades of research, scientists have managed to activate the immune system of one's own body, thereby combating the tumour cell, without touching the healthy cells. It doesn't need an explanation of what a huge progress that means. Several study results in melanoma and lung cancer show that immunotherapy prolongs lifespan compared to conventional chemotherapy. For the first time, hope can be given to patients who have not had any chance until recently. In the meantime, clinical studies are also under way for other tumour applications. Belgium has always played a pioneering role in the development of this therapy. We owe a great deal of thanks to Professor Thierry Boon, who has played an important role in his discovery of cancer-specific antigens, the signposts on the cell surface of cancer cells. On 2 July 2015, together with my colleague Jan Vercammen, I organized the round table of immunotherapy and cancer.We discussed the results, possibilities and challenges. On the basis of the conclusions of that round table, Mr Vercammen and I have written this resolution. Without repeating the whole discussion in committee, I believe it is essential that we continue to support the scientific research on immunotherapy in Belgium. At federal level, we can do this by investing permanently in good and fast clinical investigation procedures, a domain in which Belgium scores very well. In its pact with the pharmaceutical industry, the Minister announced a number of measures in this area. That is a good thing for the investigation. Important in the development of new treatment methods is correct and fair communication with the patient, a communication that makes clear what is possible but also what is not possible. It is essential not to give false hope to patients. Once the therapeutic added value has been proven, it is important to make the therapies accessible to the patient. The Minister has already paid back the first immunodrugs, and I am very pleased with that. During the discussion in the committee the question was asked about the affordability of expensive, individualised medicines. However, let us be honest: every health minister has to make choices. The minister's predecessors had to do that. It will have to do the same, and the future ministers will have to do the same. Affordability is, of course, a legitimate question, but it also calls for a wider social debate. What is society prepared to pay for medicines that have hitherto been able to combat incurable diseases? This is not just a problem for the health minister, but for the whole government. A little unexpectedly, the discussion in committee also took place about staying professionally active or later reintegrating it into the labour market, if that would be a punishment. Working when one is ill, if treatment allows it, can be a blessing. It allows people to focus on other things than their illness. It doesn't make them isolated. Should working during treatment be required? I would say that the doctor and the patient should be able to make a joint decision on the basis of the patient's situation. As far as reintegration into the labour market is concerned, we note that after cancer treatment, patients are facing a new setback: they have lost their jobs. I think cancer patients and, by the way, all patients deserve better. I think those who work only see it as punishment, miss the ball. Even after cancer and during cancer treatment there is a life. I hope this is also a professional life. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members who have supported this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in substance, what is on the water of this motion for a resolution or what should have been more important to us is obviously the question of access to personalized medicine which is a major task for the next few years. Is it worth recalling that unfortunately 65,000 new cases of cancer are recorded annually in our country? It is true that Belgium is at the forefront of science. It is important to pay tribute here to the researchers who are investing on a daily basis in basic research or in clinical research, but also in the pharmaceutical sector, and in particular in immunotherapy. I would like to draw attention to two particular points in your motion for a resolution. Should immunotherapy be supported? It's obvious. But the central issue is the accessibility of therapeutic innovations, in this case immunotherapy. During the work in committee, you turned back on the original motion for a resolution. With the latter, there was a commitment to ensure and accelerate access to new immunotherapy for patients with metastasis melanoma or other types of cancer – research is only progressing. With the motion for a resolution under consideration today, you are reversing. In addition, the minister (or her representative) was unable to tell me, on a question I asked her, what the budget allocated by her department for the reimbursement of immunotherapy was. She was also unable to tell us what was the budget allocated to access to immunotherapy in terms of reimbursement for patients for 2016. While we have been promised that this information will be given to us in plenary, I must note that no information has yet been provided on this matter. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am translating the amendment to your original resolution as a significant step backwards. Your motion for a resolution is extremely "frileous" since, basically, you bring access to immunotherapy innovations for patients to its lowest common denominator. Even where it is essential to set up ambitions for these patients, I fear that this motion for a resolution is only an illusion, a form of decoy for them. I find this to be prodigiously incorrect. That is why I have tabled an amendment which I naturally invite you to approve. I also have a second problem with your motion for a resolution. You know that the Minister for Employment, Mr Peeters, has committed himself to respecting the agreement of the Ten, in other words the social partners, for the whole aspect of vocational reintegration for long-term patients. He promised that the reintegration would be on a voluntary basis and that it would be without sanctions. But your majority refused to endorse this commitment. We know the reason for that. Let's call a cat a cat. There is a disagreement between the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Employment in this regard. I heard my Open Vld colleague argue that working when you're sick can be a blessing. I agree, but that is not the aim of the Minister of Social Affairs. What she wants is to have to work even when you're sick. And if we don't, we'll be punished. I want to point out that, in your budget adjustment, tens of millions are expected to be saved through this, with patients being sent back to the CPAS. If this is not your thesis, you just have to state it clearly in your text. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to supplement the promotion of job retention or to optimise the career path for patients in immunotherapy, but on a voluntary basis and without penalties. Either you vote for this amendment, and then it means that you do not want to force a patient to work, even when he is sick and unable to work; or you do not vote for it, and that will mean that your goal is to force and enforce sanctions. If that is the case, we will therefore not be able to support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u95	Mr President, a brief response to the obligation to work. During the discussion of this resolution in the Committee on Health, it was made clear that we wanted to include a separate point concerning the possibility of continuing to work during the examination or on reintegration into the post-treatment work. Why? Immunotherapy................................................................................................................................................................. They are therefore asking parties. However, that is not possible today. Therefore, it is very important and in the interests of patients that if they can and want to continue to work, this is made possible by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Somers, the release of sick patients, including those who are seriously ill, is neither a discovery nor an invention. This is really terribly unaware first and foremost of patients, including long-term patients. The knot's not here. Because, indeed, for patients, it is sometimes a good thing, when they are able to do so and are seeking it, to be able to continue to invest in a professional activity, possibly adapted to their condition. But the knot isn't there. The node is that there is a disagreement in your majority, between Minister Peeters, who wants to respect the agreement of the social partners, of the Group of 10, so that reintegration is voluntary and without sanction, and your Minister of Social Affairs, who wants a return to compulsory work and with sanction. As evidence, the two draft conflicting royal decrees. We'll see what you'll land on, but your nervousness in committing yourself and writing black on white shows you're just embarrassed at the corners. Your will is to make it a mandatory and sanctioned device. I find it totally unacceptable for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u97	Mr President, I would not like to argue, but this debate by Mrs Fonck, we had during the committee. I would like to mention in the report the words of the minister's representative, who said that the reflection on whether or not to make the career path compulsory is still under way. This means that the decision is not yet taken. So what you're doing here is a trial of intent either by the majority or by the minister. But that's not the case. So once again, and that is why I am going to be short in my speech, this debate took place in committee. I am astonished to see the fervour with which we come back with these same debates in plenary, which is not really the point. Furthermore, as I remembered, this proposal had been adopted by 11 votes and 1 abstention by the committee. I'm a little surprised to hear that in the end, some of them have come back on their decision. Unfortunately, I do not have the details of the party votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u98	I'm sorry, Mr. Thiéry. I still have the right to speak in the gallery. If, after that, the colleagues in the majority decide to reopen the debate and make it a ping-pong game, it is their choice, which must be assumed. Secondly, the majority has still not clarified its position on this royal decree on the reintegration of patients. This is weird because, a few months ago, you all said here that you were committed to respecting the agreement of the social partners, the Group of 10. And today, you step back and announce that there is no agreement. This obviously raises a question. It is logical and healthy, in a democracy, that, when there are stories such as these, they can be debated so that everyone assumes their positions. I do not want this debate to be protracted, but if you start a ping-pong game, it makes sense that we can participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u99	Of course, the debate must take place. It has taken place in committee and I do not see why exactly the same debate should take place in plenary. I'm trying to save everyone time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u101	• 6 - Catherine Fonck (1605/6) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u102	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u103	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Denis Ducarme, Richard Miller, Gilles Foret, Olivier Chastel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u105	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of the proposal put forward by the MR was to provide primary and urgent assistance without funds for a number of victims of particularly violent acts: acts that led to death, a disease that appears incurable, a permanent incapacity for personal work, the loss of absolute use of an organ or a serious mutilation. This remedy was integral and granted before a decision was taken on the public action. The Committee on Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence and the Court of Auditors have indicated that this bill undermines some of the main principles of the Act on Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence, including, first, the principle of subsidiarity, which requires that the Commission's assistance be sought only if no one else (the convicted person, insurance, mutual insurance) can be contacted and, second, aid determined in fairness. For the Court of Auditors, this proposal was not financially sustainable. We have therefore sought to find a solution to stay within the criteria imposed by the philosophy of the law, while providing more aid both in the amount and items of this aid and in its beneficiaries. I am particularly pleased that we have finally achieved the unanimous adoption of this text in the Committee on Justice, which represents a considerable step forward in the consideration of victims of intentional acts of violence. Thus, the victim of a terrorist act will no longer have to initiate criminal proceedings and see that it succeeds in obtaining the assistance that can be granted. It will of course be necessary for the terrorist act to be recognized as such in a royal decree in order to benefit from this particular procedure. The victim may submit his/her case directly to the Commission for Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence. The law will apply to the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016. It's important to report it here. The ceilings for both emergency and main aid are significantly increased. Emergency aid is rising from EUR 15 000 to EUR 30 000 and the main aid is increasing from EUR 62 000 to EUR 125 000. The main aid had not been increased since 1997. The scope of the Act has also been expanded. From now on, the allies, i.e. the family-in-law and, in addition to the successors, the persons testifying to a lasting family relationship with the victim, whether she is dead or injured. This is a major step forward because, so far, only the family of a deceased person, a minor or a person who has been missing for a year could receive this assistance. Tomorrow, therefore, it is the relatives of any injured person who can benefit from it. Changes are also made to the positions eligible for assistance. On the one hand, moral damage will be determined regardless of the determination of temporary or permanent disability. Therefore, no more expertise will be required to determine moral damage. On the other hand, the procedural allowance may be paid. Finally, with a view to simplifying the Commission's task and speeding up the compensation process, claims will be made by means of a simple form that can be submitted electronically. I have no doubt that this text will be voted unanimously at the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u107	Mr President, I will speak from my bank. The proposal was discussed very briefly in committee and the amendments were hardly explained. This does a little less to the importance of the proposal. The proposal is very good, in the sense that we finally have some money on something, and that is in the victim's fund. We can use this money as quickly as possible for the victims. This will require additional relaxation of procedures and this legislative proposal will provide for this. At the same time, the legislative proposal provides for an increase in staff from 14 to 18 persons, which is a significant increase. This is good, because this way victims are not made victims for a second time. That was kind of the case. There used to be a very cumbersome administrative procedure, which often brought with it a lot of frustration, and sometimes even costs for the victims, because there was always a need for additional advice. This is a good bill. Especially in the light of the attacks of 22 March, it is appropriate to provide appropriate and flexible compensation for the victims of the attacks of 22 March and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u108	Mr President, I have tabled two more amendments which I would like to explain in the general discussion. First and foremost, I regret that Mr Goffin's original proposal was amended by the majority. I thought his version was much better than the faint cook-up that was being amended. Nevertheless, the intention of the bill will certainly remain valuable. The amendments tabled relate to the mandates granted in this context. Unfortunately, it is a bad Belgian custom, an undemocratic habit in this country, to neutralize the majority of the population by admitting to a 50/50 distribution at every composition of bodies under the guise of parity, as well as here in the allocation of mandates. With this amendment, we want to remedy this and bring the mandates into line with the demographic and democratic representation of both language groups in this country, a 60/40 distribution so that demographic and democratic reality is no longer ignored.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u109	Mrs Pas, you presented two amendments, which, of course, repeat the same element in the third and sixth paragraphs of Paragraph 2 of a new Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (670/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (670/6) The bill has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u112	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u113	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 to 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u114	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u115	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Evita Willaert, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts in order to extend and make compulsory maternity leave, No. 1833/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u116	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (Ms Evita Willaert, MM. Georges Gilkinet and Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, aimed at extending birth leave and making it compulsory, No 1833/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u117	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u118	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the members of the Federal Deontological Commission. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the members of the Federal Ethics Commission. In accordance with Article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the 12 members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two thirds of the members being present. In accordance with article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the twelve members of the Federal Ethics Commission are appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, with two-thirds of the members to be present. The Commission consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each of whom has one magistrate or professor, three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former officials. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, one magistrate or professor, three former members of the House and/or Senate and two former representatives. A maximum of two thirds of the members shall be of the same sex. The applications were announced at the plenary sessions of 11 June 2015 and 14 April 2016. Nominations were announced in plenary on June 11, 2015 and April 14, 2016. By letter dated 10 January 2016, Mr Wouter Pas withdrew his candidacy. By letter of 10 January 2016, Mr Wouter Pas withdrew his application. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 1828/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (Doc. No 1828/1). As a maximum of two thirds of the members of the Federal Deontological Committee may be of the same sex, at least four of the five female candidates should be appointed. Since no more than two thirds of the members of the Federal Ethics Commission are of the same sex, at least four candidates must be appointed from among the five female candidates. You received a ballot with the names of the Dutch-speaking candidates and the French-speaking candidates. You have received a ballot containing the names of the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking candidates. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the names of the chosen candidates. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballots in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u119	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u120	Votes 131 Votants Blank or invalid [[8]] White or invalid Valid 123 Valables Two-thirds majority 82 Two-thirds majority
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u121	Mr Werner Coudyzer received one vote. Mr Werner Coudyzer obtained 1 vote. Mr Danny Pieters received 120 votes. Mr. Danny Pieters won 120 votes. Mr André Simons received one vote. Mr. André Simons obtained 1 vote. Mr Danny Pieters, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr. Danny Pieters, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is hereby declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u122	Mr Philippe Quertainmont received 0 votes. Mr Philippe Quertainmont obtained 0 votes. Mrs Françoise Tulkens received 123 votes. Françoise Tulkens won 123 votes. Mr Melchior Wathelet received 0 votes. Mr. Melchior Wathelet obtained 0 votes. Mrs Françoise Tulkens, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Françoise Tulkens, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u123	Mr Johan De Roo received 123 votes. Mr Johan De Roo obtained 123 votes. Mr Frederik Erdman received 123 votes. Mr. Frederik Erdman won 123 votes. Mr Geert Lambert received 0 votes. Mr Geert Lambert won 0 votes. Mr Danny Pieters received one vote. Mr. Danny Pieters obtained one vote. Mr Luc Willems received 113 votes. Mr Luc Willems won 113 votes. Mr Johan De Roo, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr. Johan De Roo, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. Mr Frederik Erdman, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr. Frederik Erdman, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. Mr Luc Willems, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr. Luc Willems, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u124	Mr François-Xavier de Donnea received 123 votes. Mr François-Xavier de Donnea won 123 votes. Mr Thierry Detienne received 0 votes. Mr Thierry Detienne won 0 votes. Mrs Camille Dieu received 123 votes. Mrs Camille Dieu won 123 votes. Mrs Jacqueline Herzet received 123 votes. Ms Jacqueline Herzet won 123 votes. Mr Melchior Wathelet received 0 votes. Mr. Melchior Wathelet obtained 0 votes. Mrs Magdelaine Willame-Boonen received 0 votes. Mrs Magdelaine Willame-Boonen won 0 votes. Mr François-Xavier de Donnea, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr François-Xavier de Donnea, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. Ms Camille Dieu, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Ms Camille Dieu, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was proclaimed a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. Ms Jacqueline Herzet, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Ms. Jacqueline Herzet, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u125	Mr Eddy Boutmans received 121 votes. Mr. Eddy Boutmans won 121 votes. Mr Jan Michiels received 0 votes. Mr Jan Michiels obtained 0 votes. Mr Sabin S'Heeren received 123 votes. Mr Sabin S'Heeren obtained 123 votes. Mr Eddy Boutmans, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr. Eddy Boutmans, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. Mr Sabin S'Heeren, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr Sabin S'Heeren, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u126	Mrs Djamila Benbihi received 121 votes. Ms. Djamila Benbihi won 121 votes. Mr Jean-Marie Raviart received 0 votes. Mr Jean-Marie Raviart obtained 0 votes. Mr Melchior Wathelet received 122 votes. Mr. Melchior Wathelet obtained 122 votes. Ms Djamila Benbihi, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Ms. Djamila Benbihi, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission. Mr Melchior Wathelet, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission. Mr. Melchior Wathelet, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u127	The terms of office of the members of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Appointment Committees for the notaryate shall expire on 10 February 2017. The term of office of the members of the Commissions de nomination francophone et neerlandophone pour le notariat expires on February 10, 2017. In accordance with Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001, vacancies for a mandate of working or alternate members of an appointment committee must be published in the Belgian Official Journal no later than six months before the expiry of the term of office of members. In accordance with Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001, the vacancy in the terms of office of the actual and alternate members of an appointment committee must be published in the Belgian Moniteur no later than six months before the expiry of the term of office of the members. The Dutch-speaking and French-speaking nomination committees for the notaries are composed of eight working and eight alternate members, four notaries each and four non-notaries. The notaries are appointed by the National Chamber of Notaries. Non-notaries shall be appointed by the Chamber with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Commissions de nomination francophone et neerlandophone pour le notariat are each composed of eight effective members and eight alternate members, each composed of four notaries and four non-notaries. Notaries are designated by the National Chamber of Notaries. Non-notaries shall be appointed by the House by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2016, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u128	The MR Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Gautier Calomne as an effective member and of Mr Richard Miller as an alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Council. The MR Group sent me the candidature of Mr Gautier Calomne as an effective member and Mr Richard Miller as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council. Since there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires that they should not be voted on and I declare Mr Gautier Calomne to be an effective member and Mr Richard Miller to be an alternate member of the Benelux Consultative Council. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Gautier Calomne elected as an effective member and Mr Richard Miller elected as an alternate member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u129	At the request of the authors, I propose the motion for a resolution (Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mrs Karine Lalieux) on combating female genital mutilation, No. 1406/1, refer to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society, the motion for a resolution (Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mrs Karine Lalieux) to combat female genital mutilation, No 1406/1. This bill was previously sent to the External Relations Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on External Relations. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u130	The Government requested urgent treatment pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Programme Act of 27 December 2004 and the Law of 7 January 1998 on the structure and rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages and repealing the Royal Decree of 26 October 2015 amending provisionally the Programme Act of 27 December 2004 and the Royal Decree of 26 October 2015 amending provisionally the Law of 7 January 1998 on the structure and rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, No. 1834/1. The Government requested urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending the Program Act of 27 December 2004 and the Act of 7 January 1998 relating to the structure and rates of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages was introduced and repealing the Royal Order of 26 October 2015 amending provisionally the Program Act of 27 December 2004 and the Royal Order of 26 October 2015 amending provisionally the Act of 7 January 1998 relating to the structure and rates of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, No. 1834/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u131	Mr President, in this case, the system of cliquet and the increase in excise duties on alcoholic beverages were introduced temporarily by a royal decree. The purpose of this bill is to bring these excise increases into law, which have already been applied in anticipation since November 2015. Why is it urgent to ratify through a law? Because the programme law in preparation will make further amendments to these provisions. As you know, a program-law can only make an amendment to a law, hence the provision that we are urgently seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u132	I propose that we take a stand on this request. I propose that we speak out on this question at the sitting and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u133	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various health provisions, No. 1838/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on various provisions in the field of health, No. 1838/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u134	Mr President, according to the government, the draft law on various health provisions must enter into force as soon as possible. The most important example is the provision on the oral care pathway. That provision should have entered into force at the beginning of this year, but until the principle of oral care is legally established, the measures to strengthen preventive oral health, already announced last year, cannot be implemented. That is why we are calling for urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u135	I would suggest that we speak out on the question at the sitting and getting up. I propose that we take a stand on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u136	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 10 May 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 10 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 126/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Rita Bellens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 126/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u137	Yes 78 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u138	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 11 May 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 11 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 143/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 143/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u139	Minister, like my colleagues, I have learned of the removal of the Federal Police's "theft of works of art" by means of the press. You confirmed this announcement in the Committee of the Interior on 11 May. This cell, composed of five inspectors until 2006, had already been reduced to two inspectors only... [[Brouhahaha]] It would be nice to make less noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u141	This unit represents a very small burden for the State in terms of the expertise and usefulness of its agents. You justify this abolition by optimising the reorganization of the Federal Police, which involves directing the central capacity of the Federal Judicial Police towards its priority tasks, while trafficking in works of art and antiques is not included. Your decision is therefore part of an optimisation movement launched in 2013 while the international context and the importance of the trafficking of works of art in the financing of terrorism have changed significantly since then. This justification is surprising when we know the extent to which theft and trafficking of works of art and antiquities are part of the financing of international terrorism, a phenomenon that rightly focuses our attention on the threat it poses not only to our physical integrity, but also to our freedoms. The Islamic State derives substantial revenues from the trafficking of archaeological items that often transit through Europe to arrive in Belgium. Trafficking in cultural property is also the third largest in the world, after money-laundering and drug trafficking. You also announced in committee that the cell thus removed would be integrated with others in a new direction responsible for combating terrorism, but with additional means. It is, however, to conceal the usefulness of the "Arts and Antiquities" unit in other areas, such as money laundering in the case of retrocommissions. Finally, your choice goes totally against the choices made in the other Member States of the European Union. Lithuania, Poland and Romania have just created specialized cells for the trafficking of works of art and already existing cells in Italy, France and the Netherlands have just been expanded. Therefore, my group will support Mr Gilkinet's motion. It is indeed essential that the federal police retain sufficient means of coordination, expertise and international representation in the field of art trafficking or antiques for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u142	Mr President, first and foremost I would like to thank Mrs Caprasse for her support, but beyond the blink of an eye, the situation is worrying. The Minister of the Interior has decided to abolish or, in any case, reduce at this stage the human resources of OECDFO, in charge of the fight against financial crime. He removed the federal unit in charge of the environmental police and, today, it is the unit in charge of the fight against trafficking in art and antiquities that is abolished. This means that there will be no more interlocutors for foreign police, no more coordinating bodies in the fight against this type of trafficking, with a view to the effectiveness of our police in its various missions and also to the functioning of our federal state. This is a damaging measure. I find it difficult to understand why a person like Mr Miller, particularly attentive like us, and the entire MR group accept that, piece by piece, the Minister of the Interior disappoints the federal police, which is why I tabled this motion for a recommendation. I thank you for supporting it by refusing the simple motion of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u143	I also wanted to support on behalf of the PS Group this motion tabled by our colleague Gilkinet. There is no need to recall how important this trafficking in works of art is in the financing of terrorism. My group and I find it quite paradoxical that today we are seeking by every means to try to make believe that we are actively fighting terrorism in this country and that at the same time we are withdrawing important resources from cells which are doing effective work in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u144	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u145	Yes 76 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u146	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on May 11, 2016 This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture of 11 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 144/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte; - a simple motion was tabled by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Sarah Claerhout and Len Dierick and MM. Gautier Calomne, Peter Dedecker and Johan Klaps. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 144/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Leen Dierick and by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Johan Klaps. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u147	Yes 78 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u148	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 11 May 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 11 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 142/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie De Wit. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 142/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie De Wit. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u149	Mr President, we also do not understand the absence of any investment by the Minister of Justice in this delicate matter, namely the forthcoming closure of the only Walloon forensic institute, the one in Liège. If DNA expertise is subject to competition and therefore goes abroad – which is particularly damaging – the Institute carries out other public service tasks, which are completely abandoned by the Justice FPS, as evidenced by the lack of funding necessary to maintain it. We regret it bitterly. We hope that the Liegeians, as well as all the Walloons in this House, will support our motion, as this expertise, which is no longer to be demonstrated, will disappear in a few months' time if we do not invest in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u150	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u151	Yes 77 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 88 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1124/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1124/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u153	Vote on Amendment No 5 from Catherine Fonck at point 3. (1605/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck on point 3. (1605/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 48 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 from Catherine Fonck at point 5. (1605/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on point 5. (1605/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u154	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 102 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1605/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1605/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u156	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (670/7) Vote on amendment No. 10 by Barbara Not to article 2. (670/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (670/7) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (670/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u157	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u158	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (670/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (670/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-19-54-plenair-ip111x.u159	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 26 May 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 26 May 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 May 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 May 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
