ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the end of last year I took the floor on legal subscriptions. We all know that at some point it was decided to withdraw it with a view to concluding new agreements. The cooperation currently in place between the Belgian authorities and some publishers for the collection of the legal documentation for the purposes of the Magistracy is therefore discontinued. The subscriptions would normally run until 1 January 2016 and would not be renewed. This is part of a new system whereby judicial services will be able to decide for themselves which publications they want to order. A working group of the FPS Justice and the two colleges would set up a procedure for a new framework agreement with the publishers. However, in mid-December, at the time of my question, no agreements had yet been made with the publishers. In a letter to her subscribers, one of those publishers calls the alarm. They have now taken the initiative for a transitional measure. The magistrates who wish to do so can extend their access to the publisher's digital archive until the end of February. In response to a question at the end of October, you indicated that you would ensure continuity of service, but at the moment many magistrates fear that this will not be the case. Firstly, where is the legal documentation working group on the drafting of a new framework agreement and any transitional measures? Secondly, how come the publishers haven't been contacted yet? Thirdly, there was an agreement on 1 January 2016, because that was the intention, wasn't it? If not, what are the concrete consequences for the magistrates now? Fourthly, will you take steps yourself to prevent this termination of subscriptions? If so, what steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u2	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, on 6 March 2015, the Council of Ministers approved the conclusion of the agreements on the provision of legal documentation for the Belgian magistrate and its support services. The Council of Ministers agreed to the award of these contracts for an exclusive period of one year, in which savings and possibilities for rationalizing and modernising documentation had to be examined and implemented. Within the framework of and taking into account the progress of work on judicial reform, and in particular the gradual introduction of the administrative autonomy of the judicial system, the administration and representatives of the colleges carried out work in a working group dedicated to this purpose. On the basis of that work, all existing contracts and delivery vouchers containing contractual commitments with the publishers and distributors were terminated by 1 January 2016. The termination, as has been explained several times, was not intended to end the cooperation, but rather to bring it to a different and better level. The first objective is to rationalise the documentation and use of it more effectively by including the lectures of the judicial system. In this way they can determine their documentary needs from their own point of view and knowledge. This new system requires research, and this will take some time. To bridge the interim period, the Council of Ministers decided on 23 December 2015 to ask the three main providers for an offer for electronic documentation for six months. This is an interim solution which ensures continuity in the operation of judicial services. This was done in continuous consultation with the lectures and the publishers. There have been several meetings with publishers, and they have been kept informed of this dossier. We are now working in the best of terms, and I believe that the publishers would confirm this on request. Just as a result of these positive negotiations, there is no interruption in the provision of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u3	Minister, I note that the deadline has not been met. It is therefore understandable that this leads to some concern in the field. However, I understand that the subscriptions, although for electronic documentation, have been extended by six months. This means that there may be new subscriptions from July onwards. However, there are also collections present in libraries, on paper and the like. If these are continued, there are likely to be some missing copies for those six months. Can that still be corrected? In any case, I do not think it is a good way of working, such an interruption which requires a temporary solution for six months of electronic documentation. I can only hope that an agreement will be reached quickly and that everything will go well again so that the magistrates can carry out their work in the best conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u4	Questions Nos 8100 and 8137 by Mr Degroote and No 8123 by Mrs Dumery will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u5	Minister, there were many reactions to an article published in De Tijd on 16 December. It can be read that the Security of the State would have concluded a protocol agreement or a draft protocol agreement with the National Bank of Belgium. This would give the State's Security full access to all Belgians, foreigners, companies and other legal entities' accounts. The article states that the law on special information methods may have been infringed or circumvented. That law provides that the security of the State must first seek permission from the BIM Committee in order to obtain certain information. However, the State's security claims that all public institutions, including the National Bank, must answer all of its questions. Since recently, the National Bank has managed a central register to which all financial institutions have to communicate the important data of their customers each year, and thus the State Security would also have access to all this information. The security of the State has also issued a communiqué itself. That doesn't happen that often and is quite unique. There has therefore been a great deal of communication, but there is a need for some clarity, especially as reference is made to an opinion of the Committee I, which seems to express reservations about the protocol agreement. However, I have not seen the text myself. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Were you aware of the talks about the drafting of a protocol between the National Bank and State Security? Do you consider the protocol to be in breach of BIM legislation? If so, what steps will you take to correct the imbalance? If not, what are your arguments for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u6	Mr Van Hecke, on 16 November, the Security of the State and the National Bank concluded an agreement setting out arrangements and practical arrangements for the way in which the intelligence service can request certain information from the Central Contact Point of the National Bank of Belgium. On 15 December I was informed of the protocol agreement. The Central Contact Point is the register containing the bank account numbers and contracts held by natural and legal persons, whether resident or not in Belgium, at financial institutions. The database is also supplemented by the external accounts reported by natural persons residing in Belgium. The bank information in question is limited to the existence and number of the accounts or contracts and their holder. The type of current account, savings account, credit account or its balance shall not be recorded therein. A search of the central point of contact allows the State Security to determine whether a particular person is the holder of one or more bank accounts, without having to question some seventy financial institutions individually. The method ensures not only a processual simplification through the more targeted progress of financial institutions, but also an additional protection of the privacy of the person to be investigated. Like the Committee I, I believe that the protocol agreement does not conflict with the intelligence law of 30 November 1998 and the BIM law of 4 February 2010, and that it does not circumvent the law on supervisory authorities. More importantly, like the Committee I, I believe that the protocol is a good thing, because it offers the security of the State an additional possibility of information gathering, even though the number of applications so far has been limited, namely 16 in 2012, 11 in 2013 and 8 in 2014. The problem you are referring to is that the protocol for the legal basis of the survey refers to two different provisions in the law of 30 November 1998, namely Articles 14 and 18/15. However, the protocol agreement does not explicitly specify the procedure to be followed. Article 18/15 provides that the request for lists of bank accounts or certain financial instruments should be considered as a special information method, in particular as an exceptional method. Article 14 provides in paragraph 2 for the jurisdiction of the State to bring actions in the public sector for all information necessary within its intelligence work. That claim is legally qualified as an ordinary method. Paragraph 4 lays down the detailed rules for exercising that right of appeal through direct access to public sector databases. The protocol agreement itself states that the Central Contact Point is the public sector database. The central question is to what extent the principle of subsidiarity applies to this issue. That principle applies as a general condition of application to all BIM methods. For example, Article 18/9 provides that an exceptional method may be used only if the normal and specific methods are considered insufficient to collect the information necessary to carry out the information mission. It is now up to the authorities concerned to consult on this subject, taking into account the legal framework mentioned. In the meantime, the Security of the State will apply the BIM procedure provided for in Article 18/15 when searching the Central Contact Point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I think it's good to go into that in more detail. In particular, I remember that, pending a full clearance, the State's security will apply Article 18/15 of the BIM Act and therefore will not be at any risk of circumvention or negation of the BIM Act. Could you please indicate when a final conclusion could be reached? I suppose it won't take too long. I see you shaking no, so it'll be pretty quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u8	Question No 8080 by Mr Laurent Devin is postponed. The attached questions Nos. 8186 and 8187 by Mr. Ducarme are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u9	Mr President, Minister, in recent weeks, the Professional Union of Translators and Interpreters (UPTIA) has sounded the alarm, highlighting the growing quality problems observed for translations in support of judicial proceedings. To cite only a recent and extensively commented example, the trial of a former parliamentarian was postponed due to a translation problem: some documents in the case file had not been translated from Dutch (the language of instruction) to French (the language of the trial). At the source of a fairly broad and widespread problem, UPTIA points to the relatively low levels of remuneration of translators by the public authorities in our country, which would therefore not support quality work. While, for example, in France, the price of a translation can be charged at 25 euros per page, it is rather necessary to count 8 euros in Belgium. In particular, UPTIA is concerned about a proposed royal decree, which it believes would apply lower rates than those applied to our European neighbours. In this respect, the Professional Union requests that the budget for translators and interpreters, which is to be provided by the Government, be tripled to EUR 60 million. The proposed Order also appears to provide that the waiting time of interpreters prior to a mission and the waiting time between missions at the same location will no longer be compensated. In other words, the interpreter will have to be voluntarily available until the next hearing or case begins. In addition, double pricing for complex translations or for weekend translations is likely to disappear, with the exception of services performed between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. on business days. Finally, UPTIA also complains about numerous delays in payment. You will agree with me, minister, with these various considerations. Good quality translations are indeed a prerequisite for the proper functioning of justice in our country. It is therefore important that every effort be made to establish appropriate working conditions for this profession. Minister, the translators and interpreters have a relatively busy complaint book. They call for full status, adequate remuneration, a single tariff for all languages, direct payment of interpreters upon arrival at the mission, an increase in rates for urgent or complex translations, as well as for weekend and night services. Minister, how do you view these claims? Have you had the opportunity to meet with representatives of UPTIA to discuss these different issues? Have you ever identified possible solutions to respond, in whole or in part, to the requests of translators and interpreters? What exactly is the matter with the draft royal decree I have just mentioned? Does the latter take into account the sector's comments? If so, how? Minister, thank you in advance for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u10	Mr Calomne, I thank you for this question on a problem which has also asked me since I arrived at the Court of Justice. The justice costs reform programme includes several actions, one of which concerns translators and interpreters. In this context, an in-depth analysis of all cost statements as well as a comparative analysis of tariffs in several countries was carried out. These analyses were presented to professional organizations in May 2015. From this overall consultation emerged a proposal for an approach that was presented on July 2, 2015. Most of the reactions were incorporated into a new proposal, presented in September 2015. After some adjustments, an improved proposal was put forward on December 2, 2015, after which a final proposal was drafted and submitted to both colleges for advice at the end of December. As for the translators, I share your view that the Dutch-French and vice versa translations were not paid in a professional manner. Indeed, the price of €8.14 per page no longer corresponds to economic reality and a substantial increase has been formulated. We have also adapted the calculation method, which is done instead by line or by word. I also share your view that every translator should be paid in a non-discriminatory manner. By using the word calculation method, the differentiation of rates is a response to the discrimination that would be introduced with a single tariff for all languages. To modulate tariffs, my administration compared several international texts in different languages, setting a tariff that guarantees non-discriminatory remuneration. On the other hand, for interpreters, the single tariff will apply. But since the four old tariffs varied between 34 and 58 euros, the professional organisations obviously ask for the highest rate, which is not financially sustainable because the highest rate represented only 2 % of the interpretations. In this context, the discussion focused on wait times and pay. Indeed, my administration had proposed to include in the benefit rate the compensation for average waiting time, calculated on the basis of the analysis of all invoices 2014. I intend to propose to bars and colleges to change the way hearings are organized, i.e. to drop the tradition of convening all experts at 9 a.m. for the afternoon hearings; it is preferable to schedule them at a fixed time. This optimisation would have been beneficial for the interpreters. As they have finally opted to maintain the pay for waiting time, this optimisation will be more beneficial for the budget. Other actions will strengthen a more professional approach to justice costs. The establishment of the Office of Justice Fees, made up of tax professionals, will ensure a non-discriminatory approach to service providers and also better control. The creation of a national register for translators and interpreters, to be implemented at the end of 2016, will give each magistrate a clearer view of the availability of translators and interpreters in his jurisdiction. In addition, I intend to further operationalize the quality criteria to be included in the law of 10 April 2014, which is at the origin of this register.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u11	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive and detailed answer. Could I have your written text because your debit was quite fast?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best. The prison in Tournai has been understaffed for some time. If the figures are taken, there are 133 full-time equivalents, while the framework provides for 150. This reduced staff must run a prison for 220 prisoners for 180 places. Moreover, after your rationalization plan to make an effort of 10 per cent savings on the budget of civil servants and hence prison officers, the situation is not likely to improve. Thus, there is a problem that creates and will continue to create an uncomfortable situation for guards who have to carry out different missions by being small in number. I fear that this will lead to further social movements. They will only be the consequences of your economy policy which, de facto, is harmful to a serene working environment and creates tensions. In addition, these social movements have an impact on the police, which must carry out the duties of prison officers during strikes. The police of the Tournaisis had to manage certain missions in the prison for a few days and was therefore under pressure to carry out its own missions, to which it is destined and trained. I will also ask the Minister of the Interior about this. Minister, what concrete measures do you intend to take to overcome the shortage of prison officers at the prison in Tournai? Is there any additional staff planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u13	Dear colleague, in terms of staffing, the framework for Tournai, in the 2014 staff plan, was 150 full-time equivalents. The current effective framework, as of January 4, 2016, is 137.05 full-time equivalents, or 162 persons. The deficit is therefore 12.95 full-time equivalents. The entire civil service sector must make savings, including the prison administration. There are no exceptions to these savings for prisons. In order to best respond to the challenges this poses, a "rationalization" working group was set up in early 2015 with trade union organisations. The aim is that prisons can continue to work properly despite the structural decrease in staff. There is a need to develop alternative working methods in order to operate prisons with the available staff. The work is progressing well and producing encouraging results. The first theoretical rationalization exercises are done. For the Tournai settlement, the visit and exercise are scheduled for the end of February 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u14	Mr.Minister, at the end of February 2016, you will have to present the rationalization work you are going to develop. I hope you will perform miracles because, at the moment, you are telling me that there are more or less 13 people missing. While we're still at Level 3, in Tournai as elsewhere, I'm afraid the police have other missions. I hope that what you're going to present to them will lead to a solution, otherwise we risk going to the clash. As president of a police zone, it is difficult to systematically send the police to prisons while there are a series of other missions to fulfil. I will ask Minister Jambon another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic301x.u15	Question No 98 by Mr Blanchart is postponed; questions No 8180 and No 8240 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh are also postponed.
