ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u1	Mr President, I am glad that the question is still being raised, because it was tabled five months ago and in the meantime it is figs after Easter, because the discussion of the law on special information methods has already begun. In any event, in May, in its opinion, the Privacy Commission expressed its fears about the proposal to allow massive tapping of the fibre optic cable, mainly based on the explanatory memorandum and not on the legal text. How did you, as Minister responsible for privacy policy, assess the advice of the Privacy Committee? Do you agree with that advice? Is there a proportionate measure? What action have you taken? The text is not directly under your jurisdiction, but the privacy policy is very important. Your predecessor has always said that he would put a very heavy burden on the government when it comes to privacy. Will you scale up your political weight when privacy files come on the agenda in such draft laws?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u2	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to point out that the cable tap is already legally possible today. The legislator has already provided for the intelligence service to be provided with technical means to enable the full interception, which means that there is no longer any restriction. That is the starting point. It's not like they weren't allowed to do anything before, and some things have been allowed. What we are doing now is looking for a better framework. I have already tried to accommodate your sighs by ensuring that sufficient checks and balances are introduced in the bill of the BIM, which is now in Parliament, so that the privacy of those who are not directly involved is protected. We have tried to weigh on the file and have managed to make some changes and thus largely respond to the comments of the Privacy Commission. The first and most important element for me is that ADIV should clearly indicate what it will do. Is there going to be an annual eavesdropping plan, which is controlled by the Minister of Defence and subsequently by the Committee I? That plan shall contain a reasoned list of organisations and institutions for which communication could be intercepted in the following year. So that's already a very strong containment. ADIV should clearly identify the institutions with which it is subject to surveillance. It is therefore very important, I think, that we have been able to add the monitoring of the Committee I. So it's no longer about a general tapping of all the information and a large collection of data. It is now, via the cable tap, targeted, authorised and subsequently controlled interceptions. The second limitation relates to telecom operators. From now on, as in the case of the regular tap, the network operators will be able to ask a question. For other aspects of privacy, too, we have managed to introduce checks and balances. For example, we have re-implemented the obligation for active notification of persons involved in an exceptional method after its conclusion. We have also made a strict framework for the retention period. This will allow for a maximum of 10 years of listening, which should enable the intelligence services to capture sufficient information from it. Here too, we have not allowed everything to be kept and analysed indefinitely. These are, after all, strong restrictions, which we have been able to include in the discussion on BIM legislation. It is now up to Parliament to monitor and see what framework is to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive explanation. In the matter in question, when new powers are granted, a balance must always be sought with control. That's essential. In the meantime, we have had hearings. The Committee I was asked whether it would be possible, for example, to check compliance with the wiretapping plan, not only technically but also in terms of resources. The Committee I is not yet convinced that it will be able to do so, both technically and in terms of resources and manpower. In other words, on the ground it may still be a problem to carry out the checks. The discussion continues in another committee and we will try to clarify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, from the conclusions of an in-depth investigation published on June 2, 2016 by the French online news site Rue89, it appears that Facebook has developed an algorithm that feeds on the data that other social network subscribers have on you (e-mail or phone number) to suggest you friends in its section "you may know". Indeed, in the conditions of use that Facebook imposes on its members, it announces that it will use the "data you import or synchronize from your device", but also "the content and information that other people provide when they use our services, including information about you, for example, when they share a photo of you, send you a message, or when they download, synchronize or import your data". Thus, a person who has no contact in his telephone directory and who installs Facebook on his smartphone today is immediately offered dozens of contacts. It appears that the proposed contacts are those who have the number of the new social network subscriber in their telephone directory. The suggestion algorithm in question is therefore so powerful that in a few seconds it succeeds in "inverting" the search. Mr. Secretary of State, Facebook does not "use" the phone number, but "use" it to "connect profiles". It plays on words, in the greatest opacity for users. Do you consider this condition of use compatible with the principles set out in the Act of 8 December 1992? Do we not have to deal with misuse of personal data? Are you considering asking Facebook for an explanation of this clause? Do you intend to inform Facebook users about the misuse of this personal data in order to encourage users to change their security profile on the most dominant social network in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u5	Mr President, Mr Hellings, this is not the first time that you have asked me about this, and I do not think this is the last time either. Today, for example, I had to react to news about Google. They are combining the different databases. It's something for me that requires constant vigilance. First of all, I must remind you that I am not the one responsible for data processing, nor for the principles of purpose and proportionality. In fact, we have an independent commission to deal with it: it is the Privacy Commission. This issue has already been referred to this Commission, which decided that it would join a discussion at European level to see how to address and frame this issue. Secondly, it is clear to me that this framework must be carried out at European level. Personal data which is freely found on the Internet, or in directories of smartphone applications and which accumulate in a mass of social networks, are already regulated by the guarantees offered by our Belgian law on the protection of privacy. A legislative framework already exists, and we will strengthen it. Indeed, in 2018, we will have on-line the European framework that will also apply to Belgian consumers and citizens. In addition, the European Directive and the new Regulation require in particular that personal data may only be obtained for specified purposes. There, things are clarified. You have to have an opt-in from the consumer or the citizen. That is why I have asked to think at European level too. For example, for Facebook – WhatsApp connection, every time a user uses both, we need to ask the question: Do you want your data to be shared with Facebook or not? You have to be able to click no. Finally, on the website of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy there is information for consumers, which tells them how to manage their data and use the procedures. Ultimately, the difficulty lies in the control of the various algorithms. Currently, the Privacy Commission – like its counterparts in other countries – has neither the expertise nor the staff to do so. The reform of the Commission should also serve to strengthen its technological capacity to enable it to go to the field to check whether the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) rules are respected by companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Rest assured, I am aware that the Privacy Commission is an institution that depends on the House. So I got in touch with her before I asked you my question. I have drawn their attention to this phenomenon which is quite worrying in that databases communicate, for example your phone number which is in the directory of another Facebook user, without you being able to opt-in, without you being able to approve. Even if clauses appear in small characters, they are never used to give their consent or not. This is therefore a very disturbing development of the Facebook algorithm. It is clear that the Privacy Commission is working to find a comprehensive solution with other European operators. I know that a joint study at several Belgian universities is under way on the practices of Facebook and other social networks in Belgium. This dimension will probably be included in the study commissioned by the Privacy Commission. However, even if you do not have this competence as Secretary of State, you have the capacity to act on consumer information. Once we have enough elements, it would be interesting to be able to communicate on the Privacy by Design, and impose on operators the obligation of an opt-in option rather than by default. Otherwise, in the long run, you should be able to imagine that Facebook users are aware and informed of how this is happening today, which does not seem to be the case. I admit it's a complicated subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u7	Question No 12532 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u8	Mr. Secretary of State, on 9 November 2015, following a referral of Facebook to court by the Commission de la protection de la vie privé (CPVP), the Belgian courts ordered the famous social network to stop tracing Belgian netizens who are not registered there. The Privacy Commission accused Facebook of violating several laws governing personal data, including European law. A report from the Commission for the Protection of Privacy requested from Belgian researchers concluded that via the "Datr" cookie that Facebook installed during the visit of an Internet user on a page of the network, the network collected information about Internet users, whether they were members or not, without their consent. This involved the pages of friends, but also chains of shops, political parties, self-help groups or associations. The trial judge considered the data to be personal and subject to prior consent of the Internet user, as provided for in the Belgian law on the protection of privacy. As a result of this decision, Facebook appealed, arguing that the purpose of its practice was to protect network members from theft of content or denial of service attacks, including by identifying robots and avoiding the creation of false accounts. On 29 June 2016, the Court of Appeal ruled in favour of Facebook and lifted the sanction, allowing the reopening of its public pages to all Internet users. In fact, more precisely, the Court of Appeal found that the Belgian courts did not have jurisdiction to judge the activities of Facebook Ireland and the parent company, Facebook Inc., the argument that Facebook regularly put forward to counter the national courts that look at its activities. However, the French court found that Facebook was an accountant for its activities in French territory. These opposite readings create a jurisprudential uncertainty in the face of any dispute relating to the same problem. Mr Secretary of State, the Commission for the Protection of Privacy has relied on its argument on compliance with the European law on the protection of personal data. In the area of the hierarchy of norms, it must be imposed on national laws and, in fact, be transposed into the law of each State. How can this European law be interpreted in the face of companies whose jurisdiction is in another European country or even in an extra-European country? Is it the law of the country in which the company has deposited its statutes or the law of the country in which the user resides that takes precedence? Has the European Union resolved this issue? Do you intend to ask the relevant Council of European Ministers to take a decision on this matter? What position will you defend on behalf of Belgium? Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u9	Mr Flahaux, Directive 95/46 has in fact led to different interpretations in this case. The European Parliament voted in April, following the Council of European Ministers, on the new regulation, which will enter into force in 2018. Many of the problems you are talking about are already being addressed through this provision. In the reform of the Privacy Commission that I will continue in the coming weeks, I have focused on providing it with sufficient technological opportunities, but I am well aware that budgets are limited. That is why other solutions must also be found. For example, I met with Mr Buttarelli, who is the European focal point for the coordination of the various privacy committees. I explained to him that it may be necessary to examine how they can work together and exchange their capabilities to ensure security and privacy in their respective countries. The Regulation applies to all companies which are based in the European Union or which offer goods and services there or which monitor the behaviour of individuals in the European Union. It also provides that, if activities are carried out in more than one country, the undertaking shall be subject to the supervisory authority established in the State in which it has its head office. However, if a complaint is filed in another country, the local authority treats it by informing the lead authority. Procedures have also been developed in this regard. If it is in several countries, the files are forwarded to the lead authority, which then decides the matter. We're also talking about a one-stop shop. I believe that an additional effort should be made. Similarly, we must continue to foster cooperation between the various privacy commissions in order to avoid finding ourselves in such a situation that small countries should exercise all the necessary powers. At European level, we must work towards a better sharing of these. I spoke with Mr Buttarelli and insisted on that point. A lot of things are already foreseen in the regulation, which will be applied in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u10	Mr President, to say the opposite of Marine Le Pen, we need more Europe and no less Europe!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u11	Mr. Secretary of State, Minister of Mobility, Mr. Bellot, spoke of his willingness to equip the entire fleet with black boxes by 2022. In addition to the positive impact this would have on the behaviour of motorists, it is also the possibility for public authorities to have important data on both road accidents and vehicle flows on the network in real time. These data will allow an optimal analysis of mobility and greater efficiency of measures taken and investment decisions. If the opinions of the various stakeholders seem to converge, one question certainly arises: what about the privacy of road users? Indeed, it is obvious that the installation of black boxes goes hand in hand with the use of personal data, at least those related to user movements. If this Big Data could be used anonymously by public authorities while remaining effective, the same is not true for insurers who, in order to adapt the premium to the driver's behaviour, will inevitably have to use the data recorded individually and individually. As Secretary of State for Privacy, are you involved in the discussions about these black boxes? Should specific legislation be considered for this specific case? In anticipation of the generalisation of the Internet of Things and thus of this type of devices generating identical or comparable Big Data, are we moving towards a comprehensive legislative framework for the protection of personal data? As these black boxes are ultimately only an additional element of the connected car, which itself is a premise for autonomous cars, this issue will have to be resolved early.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a subject which I know quite well because, when I was a European parliamentarian, I worked on the eCall regulation. At the time, I was already supporting the use of technology to improve road safety. I have stressed to Parliament the importance of paying attention to data protection. I have also tried to revise the text of the Rules of Procedure, which are in question in order to strengthen these aspects. I am therefore well aware of the opportunities, but also of the problems and guarantees that need to be surrounded in order to ensure the protection of privacy. The possibility of seeing vehicles equipped with black boxes is currently being examined by the Motor Vehicle Working Group of the European Commission. I insisted that the Commission should respect its own rules and take privacy into account when drafting amendments to the 2009 European Regulation on general vehicle safety. It must be aware that the minimum is to stay in line with this Regulation. Discussions are still under way. Once the draft text is completed, experts will discuss technical details and privacy aspects. This will not take place for a year or two. Therefore, some time is still needed. As far as I am concerned, I am in contact with Minister Bellot in order to participate in the discussions on the private life component. In my view, black box designers must take into account not only the rules, but also the Privacy by Design. In other words, they need to know that it is important, when designing black boxes, that the principle of Privacy by Design is taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is true that consistency between the various regulations is important. Having said that, it is important to continue to convey the message and to raise awareness among the companies concerned, including Belgian companies, by informing them about our standard of protection, beyond that incorporated in the above-mentioned regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u14	Secretary of State, in 2015, 125 companies submitted a request to install one or more cameras on their site. This figure represents a new record and symbolizes a trend that is expected to continue in the years to come. Who says surveillance cameras, says of course to be attentive to the respect of the privacy of people who might find themselves in their field. This is all the more true when it comes to workers in their workplace. Controls, organised by the Privacy Commission, should logically be carried out in these companies to verify that they are in compliance with the relevant legislation. Before these checks are carried out and any penalties are imposed, should we not ensure that companies applying for and installing cameras in the workplace are fully aware of this legislation? It comes to my mind that many of them don't know exactly what they can do with the recorded images. How to use them? How to store them? It appears that the rules are not always known with, of course, the risk of being sanctioned. Could not an awareness-raising campaign be envisaged for SMEs and self-employed people to inform them, in a pedagogical way, of the rights and obligations in this field? Is an initiative in this area already being implemented or under consideration? This campaign could also be a long-term one, given the entry into force of a European Data Protection Regulation amending the privacy rules by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u15	Dear colleague, as you rightly say, surveillance cameras must go hand in hand with privacy protection. It's possible. For example, in the workplace, the social partners confirmed the applicability of the Privacy Act and embodied its principles in the collective labour agreement 68. So a job has already been done. We must continue to work on the necessary awareness in the business world of the existence of rules and the obligation to respect them. There is also work to be done here, but I think it is an ongoing challenge to encourage companies, especially SMEs that do not have a legal service or have difficulty keeping informed about fluctuating regulations. There is a lot to invest in for FEB, UNIZE, UCM, business outlets, chambers of commerce, various industry federations. They must also explain the existing regulations to their members. They should also help them to implement them. Therefore, in view of the reform of the European regulation, as you know, I am reforming the Privacy Commission. Here too, we are attentive to the wishes of SMEs. There is a storeholders forum where the various federations and companies are represented. For me, these regular roundtables on privacy, which also involve representatives of civil society, are very important to hear the concerns, but also to explain how to behave and comply with the various regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. The involvement of the social partners in their relationship with employers is important and is a prerequisite for the installation of cameras. You reassured me about what's happening. I agree with you on the importance of the role to be played by the various federations in accompaniment to companies. The implementation of the new Regulation in 2018 requires important information from SMEs that will face it. They must be prepared now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u17	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 16 July, Niantic Labs launched the Pokémon Go application in Belgium. On the basis of this global success, we find American engineer John Hanke, who has long been in charge of Google's Geo department (in charge of Google Street View and Google Maps) and who now runs this start-up from Google, funded by his former employee and Nintendo. Let's not forget that John Hanke was at the heart of a scandal of improper collection of very personal data by Google Street View vehicles, a subject on which I will come back later. On leaving Google's lead, Niantic and its creator took with them a patent covering – I quote – "a system and a method for transporting virtual objects in a parallel reality game". This patent details through the menu how personal information about players is retrieved without their knowledge. I always quote the patent: "The whole issue is to encourage the user to provide data permanently, including once the novelty effect has passed. The data collection process must be entertaining in order to maintain the level of commitment of participants in the long term." In the terms of its privacy policy attached to the application, Niantic states that it reserves the right to share information with third parties "for research and analysis, demographic profiling, and other similar purposes." In addition, the application in question, during its installation, requires full access to the data collected by the Google account of Pokémon Go users. However, most of these data are obviously not necessary for the proper functioning of this game. Hence, Mr. Secretary of State, my questions. 1. Given the huge success of the application to Belgian consumers and its equally enormous impact on the protection of their privacy, have your services initiated an investigation into the modus operandi and the extent of Niantic's collection of personal data? When one sees the number of users of this application in the Brussels Park, one can doubt the importance of the volume of such data. How do you plan to measure the impact of the massive use of this application on the privacy of their users? 2. Are targeted information campaigns (e.g. on social networks) about the privacy risks involved in using this application and how to protect yourself from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u18	Mr President, I will not go back to the various elements of Pokémon fury. I don't know if there's any here in Parliament, if there's an arena. In any case, it is true that this craze has covered the chronicle during the summer. My questions relate to two aspects. It is well known that the free play does not mean that it is free in the absolute. It is the data that constitutes the exchange currency to access this application. This may have been changed since then, but I would like to go back to the absence of a "I agree" checkbox as a result of the general conditions. As far as this technical aspect is concerned, have things returned to order? Have any procedures been put in place for sanctioning or rectifying these conditions and requirements? More generally, I would like to return to the informed consent of users. It is well known that many people click on the box "I accept", when there is one, without having read the general conditions. How can users be helped to learn a little more? How can they be helped in an educational way? How can they be informed in a vulgarised way? Without going into the details of the problem, these are the two angles of my question, namely, on the one hand, the technical and legal aspect at the level of the acceptance box to be checked and, on the other hand, how to help raise awareness among users of all these applications so that consent is as informed as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u19	Thank you for both questions. I also saw that the game Pokémon Go was indeed very successful with different users, not only in Belgium but all over the world. When the game became available in Belgium, I reacted to the fact that it was still necessary to be aware, as a user, that some data was collected by this game. User awareness of this issue is essential. It is important to remember what rules are already in force today, but also what will be in 2018. For the moment, all games available in Belgium must respect the principle of purpose, transparency, proportionality and hypercompatible treatment. All these principles are already included in our legislation. With the European regulation, we will strengthen and clarify this. When a user uploads such a game, he confirms that he has read and understood the content of these pages. This is almost never the case. I don't know if anyone in this room has ever read all of these texts. In any case, there is an initiative to be taken on the side of consumer federations to analyse this issue from the perspective of confidentiality. Currently, it is impossible to "hun" companies that do not have a seat in Belgium. However, as I explained in response to a previous question, the Regulation already provides for procedures for applying European rules to companies operating in the Union and, more specifically, in Belgium. This text will help us solve many problems. In any case, we must continue to make users aware of what they commit to when they give their consent to privacy policy when they download a game or app for their iPad, iPhone, etc. It is a collective work of information that we must extend to all consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. In this case of Pokémon Go and Niantic, we are very far from the Privacy by Design, but much closer to the Intrusive by Design. Indeed, it is shown that, through the conditions written in tiny characters, that we all accept without reading them, impressive amounts of data are transferred. Then why not? At least, if it is, as you say, the result of informed consent from the consumer. This is obviously never the case. Your role is obviously quite new, since you are inaugurating the function of Secretary of State in charge of Privacy. It is clear that you do not have powers in terms of sanction and control, which are rather the responsibility of the Privacy Commission. However, since this is a transnational and European issue as a matter of principle – major operators being international, mainly American – you have the ability to inform the consumer. I think you need to focus your action on this information. Here, it's clear, there's a privacy issue. We must be able to tell the consumer what he is committed to without knowing it. You also have a consultative role with your European colleagues to have the most coordinated response possible at the 28 level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u21	I do not have a European colleague, there is no jurisdiction over privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u22	Of course, but you can initiate meetings at European level with your Justice colleague or other colleagues to have a coordinated response that has a weight: 550 million citizens, 550 million consumers. The European Union has an important role to play in the discussion with these operators who have succeeded in collecting massive personal data, which have become the raw material of the digital economy of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u23	Mr. Secretary of State, you have put three points forward. With regard to awareness-raising and the important role that consumer associations must play, this information must continue to be well coordinated. The elected representatives and the various representatives may transmit the information to which they have access in the most pedagogic way possible. Secondly, there is the difficulty of territoriality and ownership of companies that do not always have their headquarters in the country in which they commit offences. The European framework is covered by the Regulation which will enter into force in 2018. It is important that this European framework is effective. This efficiency can be achieved in a coordinated manner. Finally, there are the hopes that are put in your work of reforming the Privacy Commission to give it all the advantages, in particular in accompanying the most relevant information possible on the consent and detection of offences and how it can sanction them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u24	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the meantime, I will speak again about a John Hanke in my question. Wi-Spy is one of the most famous scandals in the digital industrial age. As a August 9 article on The lntercept recalls, it was in 2010 that the German privacy authority discovered the rose pot. While the Google cars mapped and photographed the smallest corners of the planet on behalf of their flagship product Google Street View, the project engineer, John Hanke, had entrusted them with a parallel and secret mission. These vehicles have recorded for two years large private databases of hundreds of thousands of people via open wi-fi networks, captured on the Google teams' journey: private Internet network activity, passwords, e-mails, medical records, financial situations, sexual preferences, audio and video files, etc. This case has spilled a lot of ink elsewhere in the world, but oddly, not in Belgium. The German government has thus initiated an investigation. The privacy authorities in Spain and Hungary intervened. In Spain, the same authorities brought a lawsuit against Google. In the United States, where Google has its seat, the Minister of Justice has initiated an investigation for illegal wiretapping. At the same time, U.S. citizens have come together through collective redress, a class action, to assert their right to privacy before the courts of their country. Mr Secretary of State, are you considering asking the appropriate Belgian authorities (I assume it would be the Privacy Commission) to initiate an investigation into the consequences of Wi-Spy in Belgium? How many Belgian citizens or residents do you think have been affected by this massive data capture? What has become of these data? Have you had any contact with Google Belgium on this subject since you took office? Do you intend to ask them to stop these illegal captures during the forthcoming mapping and photography campaigns on Belgian national territory? I assume it's in progress. In any case, data capture is continuous. Have there been any consultations with your European colleagues in general and with your American, German, Italian, Spanish or Hungarian counterparts, with the competence of privacy in their portfolio? Have similar initiatives been taken vis-à-vis the European Commission in order to coordinate a possible joint response from the European Union to this matter? Since John Hanke has in the meantime become the creator of the successful Pokémon Go application (using Google Street View interfaces), does this not encourage you to redouble your caution with regard to Niantic's activities in Belgium, for the reasons I explained to you in my previous question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u25	My answer will be a little back to the future. Indeed, on your first two questions, whether I intend to initiate an investigation into the consequences of Wi-Spy in Belgium, the Privacy Commission has already conducted an investigation in 2011. They then forwarded the file to the prosecution, which offered Google a transaction on the condition that the data be destroyed. The Public Prosecutor's Office has already confirmed in 2012 to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy the payment of the transaction and the destruction of the data. I think that is already clarifying the preceding points. With regard to your third question, I have asked the Privacy Commission whether it has coordinated with the data protection authorities of other Member States in this regard. However, it is up to the data protection authorities to respond to complaints or to initiate actions against controllers who are guilty of breaches of privacy laws. That is also what they have done. Let me turn to your fourth question. My answer is in the line of the previous one. At the moment, it is very difficult because Niantic does not have a seat in Belgium. But I believe that with the new European regulation, procedures will be put in place to better defend us against such companies that do not respect the main principles. The main principles are better regulated by law in the new regulation. We look forward to the implementation of this new regulation, as soon as possible, in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u26	Thank you for your very comprehensive answers. Thanks to you, I learn that the Privacy Commission is doing its job very well. I will ask him about the amount collected in this proposed transaction. It's very important and interesting. The world does not know, and we will make the world know: Belgium has also defended itself against this massive change. It's important. For the rest, I share your point of view. A stricter European regulation will allow us to defend ourselves more constructively against these transnational corporations. I also bear in mind that this is the second time that this engineer has gone far beyond the generally accepted rules of privacy protection. We will not only pay attention to what he did for Google Street View, but also what he does with Pokémon Go. We will pay even more attention to what he will do when his new project comes into being. We do not yet know how, but clearly, there is a red thread, which is that of the destruction of the very principle of privacy, to which we democrats must remain very attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u27	Mr President, Secretary of State, the testing phase of the Mercurius database, which Minister Koen Geens wanted, began this month. While the purpose of this database is to combat road traffic offences more effectively, it is obviously based on the collection, recording, storage and use of personal data of motorists. It is therefore essential that the security of such data can be guaranteed to citizens by the State. Can you confirm that the security of the private data that will be exchanged digitally is well guaranteed in the face of computer hacking? Can you also confirm that motorists whose data will be recorded will receive passive or active notification as well as details of the encoded information? Finally, the issue of access to the database also needs to be clarified, as it is learned that road police will be able to access the database to instantly detect drivers who are prohibited from driving. Have the officers who will benefit from these accesses been informed of the measures to be followed for the use of this data in accordance with the conditions of privacy protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u28	Mr.Foret, Mercurius is the name given to the car-bank of driving licences, established by the law of 14 April 2011. With regard first of all to data security in the face of computer hacking, the law provides that each service participating in this data bank must appoint an information security and privacy officer, who will be responsible for reporting data abuses and leaks to the Privacy Commission. Next, the notification given to the motorist is kept in the data bank. Article 14 of the Act provides that, in accordance with the Privacy Act, all persons have the right to the disclosure of data relating to them. The Royal Decree of 18 November 2011 on the car-bank for driving licences states that the person concerned is informed of the processing of the data concerning him. The details of the information are, in this case, determined by my colleague from Mobility. For your third question, the royal decree mentioned above provides that the police have access to driver identification data and data relating to the revocation of the driving licence and its immediate withdrawal. In its opinion, the Privacy Commission indicated that it had no objection to access to this information by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your clarifications that allow you to have a guarantee regarding the use of this database.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u30	Mr President, Secretary of State, the ePrivacy Directive on data protection in electronic communications dates back to 2002 and must, logically in the light of technological developments, be reviewed as part of the privacy reform planned to enter into force in May 2018. The Article 29 Working Group, which brings together the privacy committees of the Member States of the European Union, made its recommendations: extending restrictions to TTOs, extending the scope of the Directive to all publicly accessible private networks, revising the definition of electronic communications, including messaging, text messages or webmails, and limiting the mandatory nature of cookies and unsolicited marketing calls. Mr Secretary of State, can you give us some insight into the current state of affairs? Do these first recommendations correspond to the priorities set by the Belgian Commission for the Protection of Privacy? Can you give us the agenda for the next steps before the entry into force of the adapted directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u31	Mr President, Mr Foret, you are right that the directive on the protection of privacy in electronic communications ePrivacy must indeed be amended, not only because a new regulation has been adopted but also because it is no longer in line with current requirements. The European Commission has already announced that work on amending the ePrivacy Directive will begin at the end of the year or the beginning of next year. A public consultation was already closed on 15 July. More than 400 stakeholders responded to the public consultation. In the meantime, the Article 29 working group of the supervisory authorities of the 28 States issued an opinion in March 2016 on the revision of the ePrivacy Directive. This opinion presents a number of interesting points, including the extension of the scope to over-the-top-players. This is a regular discussion with us. It seems to me that the Article 29 group has already pointed a certain direction. They also explained the requirement for consent and the simplification of the right to revoke consent to direct marketing, which is very important. There is also an adaptation of the rules on cookies to be technologically neutral and to categorize those that have little impact on privacy. Here too, we distinguish between different types of cookies. The opinion also objected to the addition of the other categories of data to the existing data retention list. This is an important point which could have an impact on a future evolution of the data law. We will be very careful not only to ensure that the principles of necessity and proportionality are respected on this point but also for the whole project which will be tabled shortly in the Council of the European Union. We are now awaiting a proposal from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for the details of the agenda and for the outline and implications of technological developments and for the new ways of using these different means of communication. In relation to consent, it is important to continue to protect consumers. The revocation in marketing is important. You also recall the importance of consistency between all regulations and directives, which must be ensured in the context of regulatory developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u33	Secretary of State, Proximus TV subscribers have been notified of a change in the operator's general terms and conditions by email. The objective is to be able to carry out full-size tests of the customization of advertisements. On what basis? Depending on "customer data, as well as the customer's use of Proximus TV or other Proximus services". Of course, these commercial practices are gradually becoming the norm and are already common in some countries, especially on the net. Of course, the customer can find his or her account by being confronted with advertisements that are more relevant to his or her real needs. But will this personal data be used for targeting purposes and only anonymously? Is there a guarantee that Proximus, an Internet service provider, does not use its customers' browsing habits? Is it certain that all measures will be taken to ensure the protection of the personal data of Proximus TV customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u34	My colleague, you know that this type of system already exists in other countries. So I understand that Proximus or Telenet is moving in that direction. But there is still the privacy law. It was emphasized that certain principles must be respected, beyond a Privacy by Default or by Design. An opt-in must be made available to the consumer to whom such offers are addressed. The Privacy Commission already plays an important role in supporting data controllers through consultation and mediation. There is, therefore, still an opening for an exchange of views which will allow us to see under what conditions and in what context the development of tailor-made television or tailor-made advertising can take place. The Privacy Commission must also play an important role here. However, the current framework is what it is and current customers must be sufficiently informed about the processing of their personal data. This is a basic legal requirement for transparent processing of personal data. In the end, consumers must be able to trust telecom operators. There is therefore an effort to make on the part of these operators, in the sense that they must commit themselves to protecting the privacy of their customers as much as possible and not to playing with their personal data, as is all too often the case. Companies have a duty to respect the rules and their philosophy so that their procedures, services and infrastructure inspire people's confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, I am not going to go back to all the elements, but to insist on the confidence that operators must be able to inspire as to how they process personal data. Informed consent needs to be provided for each individual to seek.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u36	Questions Nos. 13548 and 13682 by Mr. David Geerts were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u37	Mr President, Secretary of State, let us return to mobility and new technologies, particularly those relating to free floating. These are the new players who are entering the mobility market, the smart mobility. I wanted to know, with regard to this new concept, how users of these services are aware of how their data is stored by these applications and how they are used. Without hindering the development of these solutions, which bring an obvious added value to the mobility and reduction of the number of individual cars, or in any case unshared, how can we guide the collection and use of this personal data?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u38	The Privacy Act allows free floating companies to collect data only if there is a legal obligation or contract that binds them to the data subject. That's very clear. As regards the legal obligation, the Decree of 21 March 2013 of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region requires shared car companies to provide the Brussels Region Parking Agency with statistical data on the number of shared vehicles once a year. The Agency's mission is to create and maintain a database that is useful for the development of the regional parking policy plan. This plays a very special role. I believe that the disclosure of data by car companies shared with the Agency is subject to the privacy law. That's clear. To find out how, in practice, the data are anonymized or coded by shared car companies, I refer you to my colleague from the Brussels government in charge of Mobility. We need to clarify things and be sure that anonymization is done correctly. Free floating companies can also process their customers' data on the basis of a contract in order to refine their commercial offer, but also, again, under the current privacy law. For my part, I am preparing a bill transposing the European regulation and giving the Privacy Commission the power to investigate and impose administrative fines on companies that fail to comply with their privacy obligations. Here too, we are reforming and strengthening control on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your availability and for the answers you gave me this afternoon. On free floating, we see the importance of this data, not only for the direct application of this data, but also for statistical use, especially in the context of Big Data and mobility, for decision-making support, but also for other applications. I have no doubt, of course, that the Privacy Commission will be able to effectively control these new technologies that are ubiquitous in our daily lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u40	Questions Nos 14013 and 14694 by Mr Geerts were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u41	I welcome the Minister of Justice. Question No 14103 by Mr Kir is postponed. Question No 14120 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u42	Mr President, Minister, our country applies zero tolerance with regard to domestic violence. In other words, as soon as a complaint is filed, the prosecutor's office must be informed of it in order to take legal action. Still, there must be a complaint. According to the French Observatory on Violence against Women of the Interministerial Mission for the Protection of Women (Miprof), only 10 per cent of women victims of domestic violence filed complaints. In Belgium, the Dedicated Poll Institute conducted a "Study of the opinions and behaviour of the Belgian population on sexual violence" in 2014 at the request of Amnesty International and SOS Viol. Of the 910 victims of serious sexual violence interviewed, 40 per cent had never taken any steps and only 16 per cent had lodged a complaint with the police. However, this practice of zero tolerance stems from a circular issued by the College of Attorneys General 10 years ago. Therefore, the College considered that it was time to assess the judicial practices and the recidivism effects of such a policy, which was published by the NCIC on September 15. The study first shows that 70 per cent of the cases handled by the public prosecutor's offices result in no follow-up, on the grounds that peace has returned to the household. However, therefore, no judicial response will have been given in these cases, and this regardless of the seriousness of the facts at issue, which is, you will admit, quite challenging. According to the INCC, these results must be balanced in that "intimate terrorism" (the process of domination and constant harassment) would deserve a stronger criminal response than the most common "situational violence" for which mediation would, for example, be more appropriate. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know if you are considering using the reform of criminal law to distinguish between the different types of domestic violence, as suggested by the NCIC? If so, on the basis of what criteria? What is the position of the College of Attorneys General on the effectiveness of the zero tolerance policy? How can the registration of complaints be improved at the level of the prosecutor's office so that the proportion of facts reported exceeds only 10 to 20 per cent of what is assumed to be the total number of facts? What is the status of the implementation of the evaluation grid developed in the framework of the national action plan to combat all forms of violence against women, which aims to enable prosecutors to assess the risks of objective violence when a report is drawn up for acts of domestic violence? Do you consider this tool to be sufficiently effective or capable of being improved? Are further measures being studied with the State Secretariat for Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u43	Mr President, Mr Maingain, the reform of criminal law in sexual matters will be part of the overall reform of criminal law. On that occasion, it will be checked whether there are fundamental gaps in the criminal law in sexual matters in its criminal provisions and its scope. Both the punishable nature and the rate of punishment of all criminal provisions will be assessed. The criminal law reform commission set up also carries out this exercise. This is not a problem of encoding, but a question of the choice of victims whether or not to apply to justice. The 10% figure quoted is from a French study. The College of Attorneys General has informed me that it does not have such figures for Belgium. One can only note, especially since COL 4/2006, an enormous effort to raise the awareness of police and magistrates has been made to pay particular attention to victims of domestic violence. We have specially trained police officers and reference magistrates. While it is true that the rate of rankings without follow-up remains high, the INCC study showed the low rate of recidivism – in the sense of reappearance of the authors in the penal system – after such rankings without follow-up. On the other hand, rankings without follow-up almost always take place after actions allowing for appeasement on the situation. According to the College, it does not seem appropriate to differentiate in the law the forms of domestic violence, since the Criminal Code provides for different types of offences responding to the various situations that may be encountered: assault, injury, harassment, telephone harassment, threats, etc. These various preventions are mobilized by prosecutors in cases of domestic violence. Secretary of State Elke Sleurs bought the tool "Evaluation of the risks of violence between partners". It was designed on the basis of an international scientific study and on the basis of surveys and evaluations of field personnel from various sectors. It offers professionals faced with situations of violence between partners a practical way to assess these problematic situations in a structured way. This risk assessment instrument on violence between partners was officially presented at a press conference held on 13 July. Since then, the online tool has been operational and made available free of charge to the relevant field players. Together with the Secretary of State, I wrote and sent a letter last week to the President of the College of Attorneys General to propose the instrument and promote its use to reference magistrates in matters of domestic violence. In addition, the Judicial Training Institute was informed of this instrument and asked about the possibility of integrating judicial training into the training programme for magistrates. I am committed to continuing to follow the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence 2015-2019. My administration is also part of the interdepartmental working group that follows, implements, monitors and evaluates this action plan. However, the coordination of the activities of this plan is the responsibility of the Secretary of State, through the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u44	I thank the minister for his detailed response. I hear there's a new tool. I don't know him, but I had echoes. I know now that he's on the line. I therefore assume that it is searchable by everyone. Otherwise, I may allow myself to speak directly to the competent authority. You are right to focus on training. Indeed, I believe that, although we now have reference magistrates and police officers who are particularly responsible for this competence, depending on the size of the police areas, the services and staff assigned to this type of criminal offence identification, the effectiveness of the services can vary, in terms of monitoring and accompanying women victims of domestic violence. I thank you, in any case, for your answer, and I will make sure to raise awareness in my area of the information you provided to me on that occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u45	Minister, according to a recent study carried out on behalf of the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (INCC), it appeared that there would be a lack of training and professional autonomy for prison directors, even though their important missions are becoming more and more extensive, in a budgetary context that is not always easy. As a result, security and day-to-day prison management missions sometimes have to be carried out at the expense of those related to the reintegration of prisoners. However, these reintegration missions will be even more extensive with the implementation of your "pot-pourri IV" bill, since it is aimed precisely at making effective the detention plan provided for in the 2005 Law of Principles, detention plan which the prison directors will have to ensure the proper follow-up. Finally, more than 65 per cent of local management teams are headed by women who have to manage mainly male staff. In itself, this is not a problem, but it probably requires special attention to accompany these directors in their role towards staff who do not always have respect for women's authority. Therefore, can the minister let me know what these ideas are to improve the training of prison directors in relation to their missions? Will this training be adapted to best prepare prison directors for the implementation of potpourri IV and certain points of the 2005 Law of Principles? Is it part of continuing training? Is consultation with regional vocational training ministers envisaged? If so, when will it take place and take into account the feminization of the trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u46	Mr. Maingain, unlike the rest of the prison staff, prison directors are not directly recruited in this function. They do so through promotion procedures among other officials of the Directorate-General of Penitentiaries and, as a result, already have some experience in the prison world. This can be either an experience gained in the prisons themselves, in the central services, or as it happens more and more, at these two levels. Experience can be gained in functions that are directly related to the management of detention, for example as a management support officer in management teams, as a psychologist in psychosocial services, or in functions within services that deal with the management of resources (financial management, personnel management). It can therefore be said that only employees with prior knowledge are appointed as directors. There is no basic training for managers, as is traditionally the case for other positions and ranks. Rather, they are offered continuous and thematic training. For example, over the past two years, these trainings have focused mainly on the acquisition of knowledge related to the phenomenon of extremism. With regard to legislative changes, information and training sessions on changes are organized in collaboration with the departments concerned. In this case, the changes contained in the potpourri laws have been or will be the subject of continuing training sessions. It is true that the lack of basic training is not an ideal situation from the point of view of penology. My administration and I are thinking about developing a programme that would be implemented in the form of a training journey, which should take into account the previous role of the new director, as well as the experience of the previous generation. In general, the issue of the training of directors will therefore be a priority in the near future, both for me and for the FPS Justice Steering Committees. The existing training programmes consist of in-house courses because of the specific skills to be developed. The more general training courses are the subject of collaboration with the Federal Training Institute. However, various consultations have taken place with the services of the Communities with regard to the tasks falling within their competence. These platforms for consultation are at the level of each prison as well as at the level of the organizations. The profession of prison director has been feminized to a significant extent in a relatively short period of time. To date, specific initiatives have not been taken for the guidelines. The training programme to be put in place will probably have to incorporate this aspect as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note, and thank you, of the idea of organizing basic training. I believe that it is essential and that it will probably have to focus on aspects that have evolved significantly since the function of the prison director's authority. Today, the prison director is expected to agree to be faced with multiple tasks. I insist on a fact. According to the INCC study, prison directors are increasingly being diverted from their primary function. I would not say that this is the personal support function of the inmates, but the management of the rehabilitation project of the inmates. They are increasingly being absorbed by purely administrative tasks. Perhaps they should be reinstated as the primary manager of the reintegration programme for inmates who have passed through their institutions. I insist that a particular dimension be reserved for this aspect in this basic training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u48	Mr President, Minister, a year ago, I asked you about the funding of the Brussels Support Centre (BAC) for the therapeutic follow-up of more than 300 sex offenders. Since 2015, the Centre has been imposed a 20% reduction in its grant, a reduction that seriously threatens the fulfilment of its missions and, perhaps even, its existence. At the end of March 2016, if I am well informed, the CAB received its subsidies for the current year, i.e. 145 800 euros (compared to 182 000 euros in 2014), of which 90% are used only for the payment of wages. A budgetary margin would exist for a possible supplementary subsidy at the end of 2016 but it remains hypothetical and therefore does not constitute an acceptable structural solution for the long-term financing of the Centre and its employees, not to mention the Centre's debt resulting from the always very late granting of the subsidies. It must therefore request credit from banking institutions. Nevertheless, beyond 31 October, the CAB will again be out of funding and should logically close its doors. This is clearly a situation that cannot be understood all the more since your Government intends to pay particular attention to the repression and treatment of sexual offenders and perpetrators of domestic violence, which has recently been reflected in the 2016-2019 National Security Plan for the prevention of sexual violence. Preventing such offences requires reducing the risk of recidivism by providing therapeutic support for sexual offenders, which is being carried out – for 300 people with whom it is understood – by the 2.5 FTEs of the CAB and whose work has so far been particularly successful. In response to one of my questions last June, you referred the ball to the federated entities and their post-penitentiary accompaniment skills via the assistants of the justice houses. I know that this subject has been the subject of a change in terms of the distribution of competences, but it is the federal state that has created these support centres! Articles 5 and 6 of the Cooperation Agreement of 13 April 1999 between the Federal State, the Joint Community Commission and the French Community Commission on the guidance and treatment of perpetrators of sexual offences further specify that the Federal State is obliged to grant the necessary subsidy for the performance of the Centre's legal tasks. I cannot therefore conceive that the State will discharge its responsibility for financing. The Brussels Region and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation refused to compensate for this lack of funding. Admittedly, in the face of the Centre's difficulties, the Brussels Secretary of State in charge of health at the French Community Commission has granted it an exceptional grant which will never be in a position to replace the budget cut imposed by the federal government. In addition, this subsidy only compensates for the 2015 losses that are solely due to bank interest and the delay that the CAB pays in the absence of reliable subsidies paid in time and in time as appropriate. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know how you intend to respond to this risk of closing the Brussels Support Centre on October 31st? Has the subsidy for the last quarter of 2016 been paid or will it be paid in the near future? What structural solution do you envisage to allow the CAB to continue its legal missions after 2016? Is this file the subject of consultation between the federal government, those of the federated entities and the management of the Centre? What would be the results? What are you proposing for sex offenders currently being monitored by the Centre in Brussels who could be deprived, overnight, of therapeutic follow-up due to lack of staff or financial resources? Finally, do you not consider that maintaining such a properly subsidized Centre would be more efficient and less expensive than transferring sex offenders to prison? There may even be a study that would compare the costs involved in all of these options.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u49	Mr. Chair, Mr.Maingain, I am committed to ensuring that sex offender support centres can continue their work in 2016. To this end, I decided to grant the same subsidy in 2016 as in 2015. I will do everything in my power to achieve this goal, despite the savings on these expenses, which are voluntary subsidies and are therefore subject to the same savings as the operating costs of my department, i.e. 20% in 2015 and 2% each following year. In the meantime, I have asked the support centres to meet with the Communities as they have become competent in this area, since the courts were transferred to them as part of the Sixth State Reform, since support for sex offenders is a customizable subject. I learn that the support centres have met with the Communities but have not yet achieved a result. The work of the centres in the evaluation, treatment and guidance of perpetrators of sexual offences is essential to the proper functioning of our society. It is therefore important that they be able to pursue them. I will address the issue again in an inter-ministerial committee and will continue to urge the Communities to take charge of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u50	Mr Minister, I am afraid that if we are in line with the logic of referring competence to the Communities – something on which we can discuss infinitely, especially since the budgetary means accompanying this possible transfer of competence have not been transferred – we do not have a solution, in the short term, to ensure the sustainability of the activities and the Brussels Support Centre, of which I recall that it is the least well funded of all the support centres in terms of the number of persons in charge. This lack of funding is worsening over time, in particular, as I have explained, because subsidies are being granted late. I therefore plead that the federal government should retain the full powers of funding, in accordance with cooperation agreements that you should, if not, denounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u51	Mr President, Minister, this is a subject that we have been following for a long time. Five years ago, in October 2011, the negotiations leading up to the formation of the Di Rupo government resulted in an agreement on the division, not territorial but linguistic, of the judicial district of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde. Since then, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts of first instance, commerce, labour and police have been split. This reform pursued two legitimate objectives – in any case the arguments put forward at the time – on the one hand, greater attention to certain forms of crime found in the communes of the Flemish province of Brabant and in the Brussels periphery, while at the same time ensuring respect for the linguistic rights of persons who might be charged and, on the other hand, the elimination of the backlog, particularly in the administrative district of Brussels. Five years later, it is clear that the cadres promised to achieve these goals have not yet been mobilised. There have been some efforts, but they are not yet satisfactory. It is clear from your answer to one of my written questions that as of 1 January 2016, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office had, for example, a staff of 87 clerks and magistrates and the Hal-Vilvorde Public Prosecutor's Office of 22, whereas the law provides for 95 and 24 respectively. In addition, the division of the labour auditorate has accentuated a divergence of jurisprudence between the French- and Dutch-speaking auditorates and, as a result, a divergence of sensitivity or even jurisprudence with regard to the application of labour law and social security. Finally, the split of the Federal Police for judicial missions meant that all the preparatory work for criminal information or investigation carried out on the outskirts of Brussels was exclusively in Dutch, which meant that French-speaking litigants incurred high costs of translation and, in some cases, even a waiver of the requirement for documents in their language. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know whether a complete and objective assessment of the division of the judicial district of BHV and the resulting workload for all the prosecutors and courts concerned is on the agenda? It is indeed an integral part of the objective assessment of the workload of magistrates provided for in your government agreement. What is currently the average length of proceedings in these two districts before the courts of first instance, commerce, labour and police and what was it before the division of judicial BHV? By jurisdiction, what was, before the reform, the distribution of French- and Dutch-speaking magistrates and clerks in Brussels courts of first instance, commerce, labour and police? By jurisdiction, since the reform, what has been the distribution of these judges within the same courts? Has an assessment been made of the provisions of the Law of 19 July 2012 concerning requests for reference or change of language? If so, are the rights of French-speaking litigants domiciled in the communes of Hal-Vilvorde respected by virtue of the application, in particular, of Articles 4, 7, 7bis of the Act of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters, as amended by the Act of 19 July 2012? Lastly, would it not be time to take advantage of the opening for revision of Title II of the Constitution in order to include in it the right of every person entitled to be tried in his or her own language, in both criminal and civil matters? I recognize that this is a principled debate that may not depend entirely on your authority alone. I give myself a little incise. In a court-of-assize trial that has just ended and has had some media impact, the cost of translating the pieces was particularly high. I have a great principle in criminal matters and I will also table a proposal for a law on this subject: is it not easier to foresee a change of language at the first hearing before the investigating judge, regardless of where the criminally qualified facts take place and whatever the perpetrators and their linguistic affiliation? In this way, from the outset of the proceedings, one would have control of the case in the language of the person before the investigating judge; perhaps it would be simpler. It does not matter whether the events take place in Wallonia or Flanders, regardless of their linguistic affiliation, would it not be more effective? This is a broader debate, but I am content with what is currently happening in the judicial district of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u52	Mr Maingain, thank you for this self-restriction that will make the answer easier. In accordance with the Law of 19 July 2012, a measure of the workload was carried out in 2013 at the courts and prosecutors' offices in the Brussels district. It led to an adaptation of judicial frameworks and bodies in Brussels in 2014. The Statistics Department does not have the average duration of a case in all courts and has not been able to provide the number of requests for referrals or language changes in a timely manner. But the average length of a correctional case before a francophone judge is 147 hours for the period between April 1, 2013 and March 31, 2014, 123.43 hours for the same period between 2014 and 2015 and 106 hours for 2015-2016. The average duration of a civil case, for the same periods, increased from 390 to 394 hours, respectively, to 414 hours in 2015-2016. In the French-speaking labour court, the average length of a social case fell from 294 to 249 hours, respectively, to 201 hours. I do not have data for commercial and police courts, but I give you a table showing the distribution of French- and Dutch-speaking magistrates and clerks before and after the reform. Notwithstanding the publications of vacant places, 83 places were published for staff and 52 places for the judiciary in 2016. For publications of vacant places, not all managers are yet filled, most of them due to lack of candidates. In accordance with the government agreement, I continue to publish the vacant places in Brussels as a matter of priority. In addition to these publications, missions to higher positions have been assigned in order to ensure the number of clerks and secretaries. Contract personnel were therefore recruited. Moreover, with a view to optimising the available space, 73 French-language cash flow contracts were recently awarded in order to provide temporary assistance to the Brussels courts. With regard to your question concerning the inclusion in the Constitution of the right to be tried in its language, I draw your attention to the fact that, for criminal law, the rights of a person prosecuted in court are guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, which has a direct effect on our judicial system. For civil law, a balanced regulation is included in the Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters of 15 June 1935. Taking this regulation back into the Constitution would not, I believe, bring real added value. I will, of course, look at your bill with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will study with great interest the statistical data that you will transmit to me in separate tables, because I understand that you have not been able to do so orally. On the other hand, I am always struck by a failure which is worth some criticism from international and, in particular, European institutions which analyse the effectiveness of our judicial system. I want to talk about the statistical gaps. Moreover, we do not always respond to the inquiries they order about the length of the proceedings, the workload or the correct assessment of the backlog. Our statistical instruments are insufficient due to lack of budgetary resources and/or political will. These shortcomings should be addressed so that we have a more precise vision and a greater capacity to enforce the time frame for justice. It would be to the benefit of the people who are here. In any case, thank you for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u54	Question No 14382 by Mrs Özen Özlem is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u55	Minister, this year it is ten years since the law of 18 July 2006 was adopted for the equally divided housing, called co-parenting. It also provided that priority should be given to examining the possibility of establishing the child's housing in an even way between parents when they have no agreement on the arrangements for housing. The court may deviate from this priority shared residence if it thinks it would not be a good thing. At the time, this scheme was mainly designed to meet the interests of children and parents as much as possible. Research shows that there is an increase in co-parenting or shared residence as it has been awarded. Limited research would show that it has a positive effect on the relationship between fathers and their children, without having a negative effect on the relationship between mother and child. However, the question is not always asked whether children feel comfortable with this. Here and there voices are going to vote that children do not always experience the shared residence scheme as equally positive because they often have to move from one home to another. That permanent displacement would be stressful for them. They're always on their way, but they're nowhere home. When parents don't take in co-parenting, it's easy to think something's wrong. It becomes more negative when a parent does not have a shared residence scheme. Minister, is there an evaluation of the 2006 law on social issues, on the welfare of children and their parents and on the legal front? What are the results of that? If there is no systematic investigation, are you prepared to make an evaluation of it? Are there any proposals to review after 10 years whether adjustments are needed as a function of a good arrangement for parents, but especially for the children, which they feel comfortable with?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u56	Mrs Becq, Parliament's preparation shows that the purpose of Article 374 (2) of the Civil Code is to make it clear to the court that the preference is for evenly distributed housing. The legislator sought first of all to oblige the judge to consider whether it is possible to allow parents a evenly distributed accommodation for their child. At the same time, attention was also drawn to the fact that it is not always the best solution and that the courts cannot be obliged to impose this form of housing in all cases. The court may, in accordance with the law, impose different rules, provided that there is a detailed statement of reasons. The government agreement did not provide for an evaluation of residence co-parenthood. I take note of the initial results of scientific research, ongoing at the KULeuven, which is intended to evaluate this. I will examine these results with great attention and, on this basis, consider whether an evaluation or amendment of the law is necessary. I received several complaints from parents who are disappointed about the residence scheme they obtained. They ask to be able to participate equally in the education of their child and to spend at least enough time with their child after the divorce. These complaints are often fed by a limited justification. In general, a conflict between parents would suffice not to impose a uniform residence regime. Studies also show that in practice there is a wide variety of judgements by the family judge and that it is in the best interests of the child that it should be able to spend sufficient time with both parents. I take these signals seriously, as do the call of minors for greater participation. I will put them to the family courts working group to see how we can respond appropriately here. I think it is important that both parents should be able to maintain a good relationship with their child after divorce, that children should be involved in making arrangements and that phenomena such as parental deprivation should be avoided. There are currently no concrete initiatives or proposals to amend the law of 18 July 2006, to favour the equal distribution of housing of the child whose parents are divorced and to regulate forced implementation of the child's housing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u57	Minister, I am glad to hear that you are taking the matter seriously, but I expected you to do so. You are also talking about an initial analysis of the studies of the KULeuven. Are those records available yet? If they are available, where can I find them? If they are not yet available, when will they be completed? We want to be involved in this, of course. Can we therefore look into making any adjustments on this basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u58	Mr President, Minister, in the annual report on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, the Federal Migration Centre Myria warns about the exploitation of beggars. In 2015, they opened ten files. However, it is something that comes back regularly. There was already a major study in 2011 and the then Centre for Equality of Opportunities and the fight against Racism has already pointed out the very poor approach of organised begging. However, files rarely give rise to prosecution by the public prosecutor. Gangs using beggars remain elusive in this way. It is, of course, a very difficult problem and it is not obvious to tackle it properly. The previous Minister, Mrs Turtelboom, set up a working group on this issue. This working group had to consider what measures could be taken to combat trafficking in human beings, specifically within the begging industry. You yourself also referred in a reply of 11 February 2015 to the creation of a new circular that would focus on trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of minors. We all know that begging is not prohibited in our country, but exploitation, exploitation, inciting begging are. The Criminal Code provides for the criminalisation of the exploitation of begging but, again, it appears very difficult to prosecute these cases. That was also the conclusion of the working group. Myria's findings again show the urgency of the matter. It's not because it's hard that it would be impossible. I believe that many, especially the big cities, are faced with this problem and that they do not have any solutions. Hence my questions again. Can you take measures, initiatives or actions to deal with this very bad form of trafficking in human beings? Can we possibly work with the cities on a plan of action? I think a lot of cities are asking for it. Is this issue also being discussed in the European Commission, i.e. by the European Justice Ministers? Can we possibly draw up a global plan for Europe there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, the fight against the exploitation of begging has been specifically included in the 2015-2019 action plan to combat trafficking in human beings. The Action Plan stresses that a working group has already been set up on the initiative of the College of Attorneys General and the FPS Justice. The main task of the working group was to establish a contact platform for police and judicial actors, mainly at Brussels level. The group's desire to draw up a directive on this subject led to the creation of an ad hoc group within the College of Attorneys General. In line with the Action Plan, this new Directive, the COL 20/2016 on the investigation and prosecution policy of facts relating to the exploitation of begging, was adopted. This circular is therefore a refinement and an extension of the common circular on trafficking in human beings. This circular provides, inter alia, for the designation of a reference magistraat in each judicial arrondissement. It is the same magistrate who is also responsible for trafficking in human beings. He is the point of contact for cases of exploitation. He shall also be responsible for organising regular local coordination meetings with actors in the field. In addition, the circular orients the concrete prosecution policy by specifying in particular what can be prosecuted and under what conditions. The circular also describes how facts of begging should be approached in the company of children. I have no knowledge of a recent discussion that would have taken place at ministerial level at European level. This has led to the inclusion of the exploitation of begging as a form of trafficking in human beings in European instruments, whereas this is not the case for all international instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u60	Minister, I understand from this that the cities must turn to the working group of Attorney General. That is what I will ask of us, because the phenomenon is expanding. I fear that we will have to do something more than set up and consult working groups. I think we should take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u61	The reference magistraat in the relevant judicial district should be referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u62	That has already been done, but no action will follow. That's the problem. The phenomenon is expanding further. People are talking about trafficking in human beings, but more and more children are being deployed. There one is confronted with the problem that when one picks up the children, one has to give them back when the parents come and say that it is their child. Urban authorities can do very little in these. I'll transfer the message locally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u63	I'll signal that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u64	I would almost say, Minister, that it is a question in the wake of Mr Maingain, but it is different, because I have now listened to his question. I therefore began to understand that they were not merged. I base myself on the angry reaction of the chief of police of the Meise-Kapelle-on-Bos-Londerzeel police area after the non-intention of four suspects, because the investigating judge did not have time to deal with their case within 24 hours. That's how it was displayed in the media. After the police had apprehended them, they asked for French-speaking justice and were made available to the investigating judge by the Halle-Vilvoorde prosecutor. They would not have been interrogated within 24 hours and were thus released. The investigating judge would not have had time to deal with this case within that time limit. The purpose of the division of the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde, which runs parallel to Mr Maingain's question, was to deal with the questions of persecution in Halle-Vilvoorde. With regard to the policy of the French-speaking courts of inquiry in Brussels, it seems that there are not always the persecutions that would be expected. There are also pleas to set up more specifically Dutch-speaking courts to facilitate this. I would like some figures, Minister, to see how that works. You don't have to list them all for me, but you can give them to me. Since the establishment of the Halle-Vilvoorde, how many cases have been chosen for a court in French? What is its share of the total number of files within the Halle-Vilvoorde parish? As regards the intervention of the Brussels research judges, can you give an overview of the number of cases dealt with by the Dutch-speaking research judges since the creation of the split parquet, divided into the cases because of the Brussels parquet and the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet? I would also like the same data for the French-speaking investigators in order to get an idea of the relationships. In fact, I should have asked there about the further persecution and the finality that was then finally given to the investigation. How does the procedure proceed if a suspect of a crime opts for the French-speaking justice and a court of inquiry is brought before the court? Is this always followed up or are there differences compared to the Dutch legal system? Is there any evidence of other things in the facts? If necessary, can an improvement in the legal procedure be provided for with a view to more efficient treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u65	Ms Becq, as far as the figures are concerned, since the Halle-Vilvoorde public prosecutor's office was set up in 2015, a total of 23 222 new correctional files were added to the public prosecutor's office, without counting police appeals. 22 827 cases (98.3 %) were correctional cases dealt with by Dutch magistrates and 395 cases (1.7 %) by the French-speaking magistrates. For the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 September 2016, the total number of correctional files received, excluding police appeals, is 15 622 cases of which 15 206 (97.34 %) are handled by Dutch-speaking and 416 (2.66 %) by French-speaking magistrates. As regards the intervention of the Brussels investigating judge, in 2015 a total of 534 Dutch-language judicial files (72.45 %) were filed in Halle-Vilvoorde's files at the investigating courts of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. For the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 September, the total number of Dutch-speaking judicial investigations for both prosecutors is 538. Of these, 360 (66.91 %) were kept in files of the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet. In 2015 court investigations were conducted in files of the Halle-Vilvoor public prosecutor's office, including 85 French-speaking judicial investigations (13.7 %). For the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 September 2016, 440 Dutch-speaking and French-speaking judicial investigations were conducted in the files of the Halle-Vilvoorde prosecutor's office. This figure includes 80 (18.18 %) judicial investigations conducted by a French-speaking investigating judge. As regards the conduct of proceedings for those who, as a suspect in a crime committed in Halle-Vilvoorde, opt for the French-speaking judicial procedure and are apprehended by the prosecutor, if a case goes according to the French-speaking judicial procedure, the case shall be entrusted to one of the French-speaking magistrates of the Brussels District Court who are seconded to the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court. Those magistrates, unlike the magistrates of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court, are competent to bring a case before the French-speaking investigating judge of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels, or the French-speaking correctional court of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. Those French-speaking parish magistrates are under the hierarchical direction of the Procurator of the King of Brussels but are placed under the authority of the Procurator of the King of Halle-Vilvoorde for the application of the guidelines and instructions on criminal policy. As far as the improvement of the legal procedure is concerned, last year I proposed amendments to the various potpourri laws to improve both criminal and civil proceedings. Suggestions to improve the legal procedure can always be investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll look at the figures again because you talk fast, but that's no problem at all. I think it is also important to look further at the investigators, where this leads to a court of law and whether or not it comes to a conviction. I'll ask you to look at this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has converted 14489 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u68	Recently, we have heard quite a lot in the press, which we all follow, about the abuse of the elderly and, above all, about the financial abuse of the elderly. In 85% of cases, the perpetrator is a relative of the elderly. This form of elder abuse appears to increase exponentially among 80-plussers: 60 to 100 000 80-plussers would be the victim of financial abuse. In practice, these figures may be even higher, because many things remain in the Chamber. The VUB carried out an elderly need study, which showed that much abuse comes from social isolation. During a previous legislature, we introduced an amendment to the penal code. For various crimes, such as theft and extortion, a penalty increase was introduced if the crime was committed against persons in a vulnerable position. In this way, we wanted to draw attention to elder abuse and put a stop to it. The question is what the adaptation means in practice. Despite the increase in penalties already introduced, the phenomenon of abuse of the elderly is still common. Do you see any other legislative possibilities, Minister? There are figures of convictions for abuse of the elderly with those aggravating circumstances. Can conclusions be drawn from the figures on those cases of parental abuse? Is there a record of that special circumstance? If so, what do the figures tell us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u69	Ms Becq, the Law of 26 November 2011 amending and supplementing the Criminal Code in order to criminalise the abuse of the weak state of persons and to extend the criminal protection of vulnerable persons against abuse, has introduced, inter alia, an increase in criminal penalties for various offences, if committed in relation to persons in vulnerable situations. The law therefore aims at criminal action against the abuse of vulnerable persons in general and of older people in particular. However, it is only possible to act and enforce the Criminal Code in so far as there is a declaration of such facts. In view of the specific and often family context, there is in many cases no willingness to report or report to victims and thus, in general, there is a large dark number in the case of elderly abuse. With regard to the handling of elder abuse in general in criminal policy, the College of Attorneys General has informed me that the issue is currently being examined in the network of expertise on crimes against persons. As far as registration is concerned, there is no separate code for financial abuse of the elderly. Crimes such as scams, theft, extortion, abuse of trust committed on persons vulnerable because of their age are assigned a generic code according to the nomenclature of the criminal codes. A separate criminal code is provided only if the age as an element is part of the basic crime. It would be a complex exercise to provide a separate code for each crime and for each aggravating circumstance, including, for example, age, pregnancy or illness. There is therefore no statistical analysis of financial abuse in the elderly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You're saying there's no separate code according to age, but there's no separate code to increase the crime in itself? It wasn't clear to me. Is it not recorded that there is an increase, even if it is not related to age, but to the weak position of the victim? For example, we could measure the relevance of such legislation. That was my question. Have we designed or can we improve a good legal text so that not only is attention paid to the problem, but something is being done about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u71	What I meant was that there is only a separate code in the parquet system, if age is a constituent component of the crime, for example, in the case of rape of persons under a certain age. If age is an aggravating circumstance, age, then there is no code. One does not create codes for aggravating conditions, such as illness or pregnancy, because it is too complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u72	Minister, the family court has been in its present form for two years since 1 September. In the spring I asked you a number of questions about the new form. You have made a number of important points. For example, the inaccessible model letter and the information form for hearing minors would be modified. This has been discussed here a number of times in committee. A more child-friendly framework would be created in which minors could speak and be heard freely. You also seek, among other things, to improve the communication of magistrates with minors in order to strengthen the child's right. In general, therefore, the family court will be kept under constant review and comments and suggestions will be taken into account to improve the position of minors. Finally, you also envisaged the setting up of a working group to discuss delicate issues. Proposals from that working group would then be further analysed by your cabinet possibly with a view to a draft law. I believe that every one of them is fine goals and good points of work. So, Minister, six months later, it is time to ask for a state of affairs. Firstly, have the model letter and the information form been amended and clarified for minors? Do they still have to fill out and return the information form before they obtain an appointment? Secondly, how did you make your announcement of creating a more child-friendly framework to improve communication between child and magistrate? Did you use the training of magistrates or the IGO's offer to do so? Is that enough now? Thirdly, what comments or suggestions have you received in the meantime, both from the family court and from the working group, in order to improve the operation? Within what period do you see this feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u73	Since my answer to your previous question, I can tell you that the working group is composed of various actors from the practice, such as representatives of different orders of lawyers, the Commissioner for Children's Rights, the délégué général aux droits de löfenfant, the Supreme Court of Justice and members of the administration. The working group has already met four times since September of this year. The support service of the seat, the magistrates of the seat and the Registrars shall also be involved in the work. I can tell you the following state of affairs. As regards the model letter and the information form for minors, the drafting of a new model letter is almost complete. This new model was developed by the Commissioner for Children's Rights and the délégué général aux droits de löfenfant, in consultation with and after advice of a group of children who were representative of all social groups. It took into account the different parameters and findings that emerged from the advice of the children. The proposed model is now being finalised in a final stage. In doing so, account shall be taken of the comments made by the other members of the working group. Within this framework, we are also considering the development of a website, adapted to the understanding of children and with a child-friendly and attractive layout, which centralises all information on the hearing rights of minors. In view of the large differences between the judicial districts in practice, the practical progress and the problems of the convening of interrogation of minors is currently being discussed in the other family court working group, consisting of magistrates and clerks. The aim of this working group is to analyse and standardise internal work processes and to present solutions, so-called good practices. The results and recommendations of that working group will, if necessary, be incorporated into a draft law. As far as the training of magistrates is concerned, I refer first of all to my previous reply. In order to be able to sit in the family youth court, magistrates must be required to undergo training organised by the Institute of Judicial Training. It consists of different modules and takes place annually per language role. This specialized training includes three modules: family law for three days, juvenile law for two days and interrogation of minors for two days. In view of the target audience, part of the training relates to non-legal subject matters that give magistrates insight into the context of the interview and any other information necessary to accompany the minor in doing so. The training is given by experienced child psychologists, police officers and magistrates, who initiate them into the art of asking questions according to age and in certain special communication techniques. The training is implemented by role-playing, on which feedback is given. In addition to the offer of the Institute of Judicial Training, magistrates can also attend numerous external seminars, seminars and colloquia. The registration costs of the magistrates for external training shall be borne by the Institute of Judicial Training, in so far as they are financially feasible. Nevertheless, the working group shows that the training of magistrates does not always come out in good practice and that the interview of children is often too superficial. It will therefore be examined how this aspect of training can be addressed in greater depth in order to improve and optimise communication between the child and the magistrate. The Working Group is currently discussing the relationship between youth protection measures and measures of parental authority. MEPs agree that the law should be clear, given the differences of opinion that exist today in practice. A concrete proposal for clarification will be discussed at the next meeting at the end of November. In addition, a number of problems relating to permanent saisine are discussed at the request of some members. From the College of the courts and courts I received the suggestion that the 15-day period provided for in Article 1 253b/5 of the Court's Code, during which the opening hearing must take place after the application has been lodged, should be increased to three weeks. That would already be the case in the majority of the courts. The proposal has now been transposed into a legislative initiative and will shortly be submitted to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If I understand correctly, the working group, which has already come together four times, has already done very useful work and there is a positive answer to the first part of my question. The model is almost finalized. Work is being done on the website. The computerisation of justice continues, including for minors. We also share the same decision regarding the training of magistrates. We know the conditions for being able to sit in juvenile and family courts, but the lawyers in this room realize that one education is not the other. The conversations are still too shallow. Conversations between judges and minors are very different in correctional and civil courts. We will continue to follow that aspect. We are currently considering optimization. In the area of children's rights in justice, we are doing well, but we must continue to work for improvement. I can tell they're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u75	Mr President, Minister, this is a short question, with perhaps a short but very important answer. You have no doubt followed what we could also read in the press about the threat to a number of Class A casinos. According to the Gaming Commission, there would be a discrepancy between licensing and what is in the law. According to the article in the press, the law would state that a license to operate a casino should be valid for 15 years, which does not correspond to the concessions that casinos receive from local authorities. Minister, does Article 10 of the Law amending the law on gambling allow permits to be issued for 15 years or equivalent to the duration of a concession?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Dumery, the mentioned Article 10 of the Law amending the legislation on gambling relates only to the duration of the licence and not to the duration of the concessions. The problem at present is not the duration of the licence, but the concessions that still apply for less than 15 years, with the full duration of the licence no longer covered by a concession. The concession authority is at municipal level and not at the level of the Gaming Commission, which merely examines whether the concession in question covers the entire duration of the licence. On my question, the Gaming Commission has today put forward a proposal for a solution. The proposed legislative amendment will be examined by my administration for its legal validity and will be submitted to the Legislative Chambers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u77	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You explained it less quickly than you did with the previous question. Do I understand correctly that, for example, if a concession lasts seven years, the licence of the Gaming Commission applies? That's very important. There is, of course, a difference of competence between the licence issued by the Gaming Commission and the concession granted by the local government, but there would be discussion about what the article says about those 15 years. If a concession lasts less than the 15-year licence, the casino fulfils the conditions, as there is no concession that lasts longer than the licence. Did I get that right? This is really for the sake of clarity, because you know that this is very sensitive. Can a concession be issued that is longer than the duration of the licence? Is my question clear? I don't think I understood you correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u78	I think my answer is deliberately brief. There is a problem when the concession granted by the municipality does not cover the entire duration of the permit. On my question, the Gaming Commission has today put forward a proposal for a solution. The proposed amendment is now being examined by my administration for its validity. I cannot say much more at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u79	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u80	Minister, in your answer to a previous question on this matter in October 2015, you said that a new Article 32b would be examined to be inserted into the Court's Code. This new article should make it possible for a notification, a deposit or a communication between legal actors to be made through the IT system of Justice. To date, a court does not register any files on the role if it does not have a profisco declaration bearing an original signature. I was informed that the civil registry of the Court of First Instance in Mechelen refused to register a case on the role because the bailiff, along with the original of the subpoena, wished to deposit the copy of the pro-fisco declaration sent by the lawyer concerned. It was reported that an original signature was needed. Due to the absence of the person concerned, a willing lawyer was invited to sign with him. The bailiff stated that he was falling out of the sky in this matter, because of course it is not nice to be confronted with that at the time. It goes without saying that such refusals, should they indeed occur, may in exceptional cases lead to the unintentional expiry of the useful time limit for subpoenas. I therefore have the following questions. Has the investigation into the introduction of the new Article 32b already been completed? Do you have a visual on its entry into force? If not, when will it be planned? Can you confirm, for the record, that the additional signature of a bailiff on a copy of the pro-fisco declaration already prepared by the lawyer concerned is sufficient for its valid deposit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u81	Article 32b of the Civil Code was introduced by Law of 19 October 2015 amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions on justice. The Article entered into force on 1 January 2016. Two implementing decisions were taken. The Royal Decree of 16 June 2016 on electronic communications pursuant to Article 32b of the Civil Code entered into force on 2 July 2016. The Ministerial Decision of 20 June 2016 determining the implementation of the e-Box network and the e-Deposit system, as referred to in Article 10 of the Royal Decree of 16 June 2016 on electronic communications pursuant to Article 32b of the Civil Code, also entered into force on 2 July. I cannot go into the specific dossier you are referring to for the simple reason that I do not have it. To your fundamental question whether a bailiff can validly sign and file a pro-fissor's statement, I can answer in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u82	Minister, I can also be brief. I think that your answer to the second question is more important and therefore makes the first less necessary or urgent. We are waiting for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u83	Mr President, Minister, since 16 June 2016, the potpourri I has been incorporated, as has the royal decision, on which I would like to speak with you, which is intended to make the procedure for recovering undisputed monetary debts more efficient. Its benefits, i.e. fast, simple and cost-effective, apply to creditors and debtors. To date, there have been two parallel procedures, namely the usual judicial procedure and the new extrajudicial procedure through the bailiff. The various departments of the courts of commerce appear to interpret the Royal Decree differently. Some departments would impose sanctions if the judicial procedure was followed without having first tried to exhaust the extrajudicial procedure. Mr Minister, how do you assess the interpretation by which a kind of sanction is imposed by ordering the plaintiff to pay the costs or not to award the RPV by judgment? Is that indeed our practice with the potpourri I? Do you think this is correct or not? What concrete measures will you take to ensure that everyone interprets the Royal Decree correctly in the future? I would like to make a comment of a purely practical nature. Additional magistrates were appointed to the Management and Monitoring Committee to check the minutes of non-contested proceedings. Do you not fear that a longer procedure will lead to delays? Within what time does the magistrate have to check the minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u84	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, according to Article 1017, first paragraph, of the Civil Code, any final judgment, even of its own motion, refers the unsuccessful party to the costs of the proceedings. In that regard, the caselaw exempts the use of the tortious act for unnecessary costs which have been wrongly incurred, e.g. where the trial was unnecessary, the winner did not cooperate in the warranty, there has been proceedings in spite of the disproportion of the court costs or where there is a subpoena while the claim could be made by application or conclusion. It is important that useless costs should have been caused wrongly, because, as in the case of defamatory or reckless proceedings, this is by definition a tortious act. Thus, in the Court of Cassation in a judgment of 7 October 2013, it appears that the initiation of proceedings for such a dispute does not in itself constitute an error. In order to be able to regard the initiation of proceedings in the event of an appeal as an error, it is necessary that a normally cautious person, placed in the same circumstances, should have acted reasonably differently. Apparently, this court is now applied when judges find that the judicial recovery of undisputed money debts is wrong, because the plaintiff does not make it plausible why he does not use the cheaper and also less burdensome administrative procedure for Justice. For example, recover more than 10% of the principal amount of costs and interest when the file shows a certain probability, for example because the debtor announced that the recovery would be contested in any case. The judicial process is therefore not discouraged as such, but merely the incorrect follow-up of that road. There is, of course, no objection to this application of the caselaw in force. Administrative recovery through bailiffs is indeed not mandatory and the creditor is therefore not denied access to justice. The judge will undoubtedly comply with his claim. Nevertheless, it is clear that the use of an unnecessary procedure, which should be determined on a case-by-case basis, is not what a normal prudent person, placed in the same circumstances, would have reasonably done. Then the charges will be charged to whom she has unnecessarily caused them. Moreover, that principle is confirmed in Art. 866 of the Civil Code which provides: "The procedural acts and documents which are null and void or cause unnecessary costs arising from the action of a ministerial official shall be borne by him. He may also be ordered to pay damages to the party. The court fees shall be one of the costs of legal proceedings. Thus, if all court costs are charged to the plaintiff for unnecessary proceedings, this includes the judicial compensation. In concrete terms, this means that the debtor will be ordered to pay his entire debt, possibly the penalty clause and interest, but not to repay the summons costs or to pay a judicial fee. Partly in order to avoid divergent legal proceedings, it is envisaged that the existing legislation should be explicitly recalled, also in order to allow the courts to apply it in the interests of office, including in the event of default. The number of magistrates of the Management and Monitoring Committee is laid down by law and is four magistrates, two effective members and two alternates. Moreover, no additional magistrates should be appointed because I have not been informed that there is such a large number of minutes of non-confession that they would not be able to cope with the task being carefully prepared by means of the central register for the recovery of undisputed financial debts. Moreover, it should be noted that administrative recovery of undisputed monetary debts is often used, but in only a minority of cases it leads to a report of non-confidence. Indeed, the efficiency of the administrative procedure means that it is sufficient for many debtors to be called upon to pay their debt spontaneously, whether or not with a payment plan. The declaration of enforceability of a report of non-confidence shall not be subject to a time limit, but it is clear that the whole procedure, including that declaration of enforceability, shall be subject to due diligence in the interest of all concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u85	Minister, I have tried to follow as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u86	You can read the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u87	Absolutely, I'll read it quietly. It is quite right what you are saying that we should try to promote the extrajudicial means of recovery. Otherwise it will not be created. The essence is that we must try to promote the win-win situation for debtor and creditor. This may require some maturation in the minds of many. The entry into force, originally planned for 2017, was recently brought forward at the new judicial year. I think that some have followed and subpoenaed the power of habit and that this was not always out of bad will. It's gonna happen. Thanks for the first evaluation, too. Regardless of Article 1017 in which you rightly quote the interpretations of the useless cost of arbitrary litigation, it seems to me that this is often about genuine oblivion because people do not immediately know that the procedure exists. It is a pity, then, that costs are not allocated because there are still similar procedures. Those practices will be corrected in the future, if everyone is experienced in them. For the rest, I will read your answer in peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u88	Minister, on the local TV last week I saw a lawyer who regularly appears in the press who refused to go to trial in the Dendermonde correctional court because of the poor acoustics. This is a murder trial, which can now be carried out in Dendermonde after the introduction of potpourri II. The lawyer fears that the testimonies and pleas will not be easily understood by everyone, with all the consequences. That has led him to ask the President of the Court to conduct the trial elsewhere. The President then asked for measures, such as the installation of microphones and loudspeakers, to address these problems. As a result, I have the following questions. Is this necessary? Any complaints about the acoustics? If so, are there any changes being made? What changes are these?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u89	There have never been any complaints about that sound system before. We have also had to hear this from the press. On the same day, the court asked for this matter to be resolved. The competent facility manager of my administration went on the spot to investigate this problem. An order was then placed for the rental of an audio installation for the remaining session weeks of this year. The company concerned installed the plant yesterday. She was successfully tested. Technical support was also provided at the start of today's session. There was an employee of the competent department present within my administration to check that everything is going as desired. Of course, this is only a temporary solution which is possible within the limits of public procurement legislation within such a short period of time. If the results of the rented audio equipment are favourable, the administration will launch a public contract in order to provide a sustainable solution in the form of the purchase of a comparable audio installation. I received an e-mail this morning confirming that the sound in the court in Dendermonde had never been so good. I therefore hope that this situation will continue for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I will take a look on the ground myself on Friday. I happen to have to attend a hearing myself that day. Luckily, it's not a murder case. I must confess it was mostly out of pure curiosity. I'll be able to admire the rented audio system myself. The future will tell whether or not the case will get another piece of cake. Thank you very much for the speedy solution that has solved the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic519x.u91	Questions No 14666 by Mr Dallemagne, No 14703 by Mrs Temmerman and No 14712 by Mrs Van Hoof are transformed into written questions.
