ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u1	Mr President, this is a rather short question. At the plenary session on 28 April, Mr Secretary of State, your draft law was discussed, which extends the deadline for examining family reunification applications from six to nine months. At that time, you stated that you wanted to examine with your administration whether the deadlines for vulnerable people, such as those in a war zone, could be reduced and whether the requests for this group could not be dealt with as a matter of priority. Among other things, I asked you this question because an extension of the time limit for applications for family reunification is not so innocent. This means that people have to wait longer for a decision to be made. For example, for people living in a war zone, this may involve risks. I would have liked to have heard the result of that meeting with your administration. You showed openness at that plenary session on 28 April. Please also explain how you want to meet this group of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u2	... protection or family members who are in a difficult region due to the conditions of war or natural disasters continue to receive my particular attention. My administration will also continue to take into account exceptional situations which justify an accelerated processing of the application, such as serious health problems or pregnancy. I've been discussing this with my administration. This discussion has clearly shown that raising the maximum time limit does not mean that the time limit for each dossier will be longer. I actually asked Mr Roosemont for a note at the time. It is almost ready and I will discuss with him how this should be implemented. I made it clear that I made a commitment to you in committee on this implementation. He discussed this with his administration. A note has been drawn up on this subject, which I must quite frankly read. I did not receive the note until the end of last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u4	I haven't read the note yet, but I'll take it. Firstly, the problem in the past was that the bona fide applications were not considered sufficiently or even not. The deadline was simply exhausted and after six months they had a positive decision. After all, energy was mainly used in the cases where there was doubt. We have to do it with the available staff. There are so many applications for family reunification that we are doing so at the moment. I said two things about that. First of all, I don't think it's fair that someone who's completely bona fide should wait nine months because he's bona fide. I find that strange. Secondly, for recognised refugees and vulnerable persons, consideration should be given to whether their family reunification can be achieved more quickly than nine months. That's in the note, but I haven't been able to read it yet. That's something for the next few weeks. It'll be over by the end of the summer. So I keep my word, but give me some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that you would like to respond to my question and to see whether the files of vulnerable people living in a war zone, for example, can be dealt with as a priority or at least more quickly than within the nine-month period. I'm looking forward to the sequel, because there's a need for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, on 18 May I questioned you about the policy of the Foreign Office regarding the granting of humanitarian visas. The reason for this was some cases in which the Foreign Affairs Office refused to issue humanitarian visas to Syrian Christians. In the press, among other things, there was a family from Waregem. The Foreign Office motivated the refusal to issue a humanitarian visa in a rather peculiar way. During the committee meeting, you answered my explicit question to review the strict policy that you would discuss with the Foreign Affairs Office. What are the results of that meeting? What changes can we expect? You suggested that after a certain period of time I could question you about this, what I am doing here. How many humanitarian visas have been issued to Syrians since 1 January 2016? Is it possible to indicate how many of them are Christians? I don't know if there are statistics on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u7	Mr De Vriendt, I remember the discussion very well. As with the asylum procedure and subsidiary protection, figures show that Belgium continues to assume its responsibility in accepting persons in difficult situations by issuing visas. However, the services remain cautious, especially because many stolen passports are circulating and many identities are being updated. They apply international standards and justice as closely as possible. With regard to the file to which you referred during your previous interview, the passage from the motivation of a negative decision was indeed very unfortunate. I have therefore asked the DVZ to pay particular attention to the wording in the future. I have been able to hear this wording dozens of times since then, so I believe I am motivated not to do so anymore. During the first five months of 2016, 229 visas, 190 visas C and 39 visas D were issued to Syrians with a humanitarian motive. Religion is not recorded and cannot serve as a basis for statistics. If I did, I think I'd get some other interplays. Never before have so many humanitarian visas been issued, I've had that checked. We are particularly flexible in this and I remain flexible in it. There are plenty of reasons to motivate that. It often goes through Lebanon. We must ensure that our embassy in Lebanon is not overloaded, because they are currently doing a great deal of work to get these humanitarian visas in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, the justification, that is one thing, and that its sometimes unfortunate wording is corrected is, of course, positive. However, it is not just a question of the justification but also of the decision itself. It is quite clear to us that we must issue humanitarian visas to Syrians, to war refugees, whether or not they are Christians. That is why I asked in the previous discussion to be less strict. The refusal of humanitarian visas for Syrians is completely incomprehensible to me. In your reply, I do not hear you swear that you will effectively act less stringently by pursuing a maximum policy. I find that very disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u9	I'm not being strict. Never before have so many humanitarian visas been issued. So what you're saying is wrong. I'm not being strict at all. I'm much less strict than my predecessors. You argue that there are more refugees. There are now 65 million refugees. In the period 2000-2001, for example, you can find out who was in power at the time, and there were 40 million refugees. I'm doing it eight times now. So your mathematics isn't even comparatively accurate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, if you say that in a number of cases the justification is still so unfortunate, and if you look at it and change the wording, this means that there are still negative decisions. When it comes to Syrian Christians, I continue to find that incomprehensible. It is also not easy to apply for a humanitarian visa. Those 65 million refugees can't all just apply. Certain procedures must be followed. So it is not 65 million applications, far from it, but you know it. I believe that the requests that will then reach our country must be met as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u11	The application must also be correct. There is a huge amount of fraud involving Syrian documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the government has decided to close almost 6 500 asylum places for asylum seekers, including places specifically for unaccompanied minors, such as the centre in Overijse with 48 places for unaccompanied minors, Dendermonde with 125 places and Deinze with 60 places. In response to my question at the plenary session of 9 June 2016, you reported that the individual situation of each child will be taken into account when transferring unaccompanied minors. You also replied that transfers will be avoided during the school year and that the continuity of education will be guaranteed. However, a number of issues have not yet been resolved, which is why I have the following four questions. Firstly, do you mean by continuity of education, inter alia, that unaccompanied foreigners will not be transferred to another language area? Secondly, how many children are still being sheltered in the centres specifically for unaccompanied minors, which you will close? What is the lower limit of occupancy of a center for you to close? Thirdly, how will the reception of unaccompanied minors be organised in the context of a significantly smaller number of reception places in the future? Finally, how is it planned to activate the buffer, should the influx of asylum seekers increase again? What deadlines are we talking about, then, in order to boost reception capacity again? Where and for what type of shelters is the buffer held?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u13	Mr Vandenput is not here, for his question No. - 12323. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mrs De Coninck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is also about the closure of reception centres and, above all, about their consequences for minor asylum seekers, who then have to be taken to a new school or for which a new school must be sought. Moreover, I heard that other centres in Flanders are already full. Do you intend to transfer these young people, who have often only learned their first words in Dutch, to French-speaking reception centres? Where do these kids end up? Are they gonna be informed about the transfer? Are they being accompanied? I would have liked to have more clarity about that decision. I very much hope that account will be taken of the fact that we are dealing here with vulnerable young people. If reception centres for unaccompanied minor refugees close, this must be a clear policy and a clear vision. I kind of miss that. It's not just about numbers and files. Young people also have the right to quality care, especially if they want to integrate those involved in a sustainable way into our society. There is also a practical aspect to the matter. What happens to the extra teachers recruited in certain schools to organise reception classes? If the reception centres close, are these teachers on the streets or are they being pushed forward flexibly? Are all the voluntary initiatives that have arisen around reception centres being wiped off the map? Social cohesion is getting a big dent here. I have some questions about this. Firstly, can you guarantee that each minor's file will be examined individually? Secondly, can you clarify the future of the reception of young asylum seekers? On what criteria is a centre closed? Thirdly, can you guarantee that young people will be protected from Fedasil's arbitrariness? Speaker Mieke Candaele mentioned that Fedasil is looking for the best solution, but that it is about more than language and school. That's a rather disturbing statement. Language and school are just the foundations for social education and integration. Fourthly, where are the young people going? Are they informed and accompanied? Fifth, what has been the outcome of the consultation with Flemish Minister for Education Hilde Crevits? Sixthly, what happens to the teachers who were recruited for the reception classes? Are they used in other schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have asked several questions about the transfer of unaccompanied minors, including on 2 March and 9 June. I understand that a reduction in reception places is taking place, and sometimes it is necessary to move asylum seekers, including unaccompanied minors. However, we must find other solutions to this. For example, it is important that young people can continue to school in their own region, because teachers have invested in them and a link has been established between them and other volunteers. So I prefer not to see transfers, but if it has to be done then certainly not to another language area. I've already questioned you about that. I have also shown understanding for the fact that transfers sometimes have to be made, but we are best able to pass them on to new unaccompanied minors who have just arrived. If, for example, there are more unaccompanied minors coming, which creates an imbalance which requires us to deal with some of them in Wallonia, I think it would be better to send the new unaccompanied minors there. You told us on 9 June that you would take maximum account of the situation of unaccompanied minors. However, not long after that I received a report from people again. The personal case does not do much in this area, which had been working for months to find a foster family for an unaccompanied minor. When a foster family was finally found for the person concerned with whom there was a match, you know how difficult that is. They were suddenly told that a transfer was planned to another region. In the meantime, I know that you have also spoken with the Minister of Education. Mr Secretary of State, how is it that unaccompanied minors have recently been transferred? Can these decisions be reversed if it appears that the transfer is not in the interests of the young person concerned? How will you avoid transfers in the future? What are the criteria for transferring to another centre or to another region? In what cases is a younger person transferred? What do you and Fedasil take into account? How many young people have been transferred from one language area to another since January 2016? Finally, the next suggestion. If it is necessary to restore a certain balance, let this happen when young people arrive. Send them immediately to a language area where they can stay so that there is no transfer if they are already partially integrated, and certainly not in the middle of the school year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u16	Mr Blanchart is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u17	Mr President, both the increase and the reduction of reception places require a great deal of operational expertise. Taking into account the needs of MENA, families and other vulnerable groups, this is one of our main points of attention. The Agency must also take into account other operational aspects. The collection network will primarily retain the most qualitative sites. Furthermore, heavy-cost structures will be phased out rather than low-cost structures. Structures for which the existing contracts expire are also eligible to be completed first. It is important to note that the phasing-out plan will only be fully rolled out as long as the inflow permits it. If we find that the agency would encounter problems for a particular target group in terms of reception, it goes without saying that the phasing-out plan is not being adhered to, but that a closure can be postponed to a time when this is possible. I can also tell you that the closure of the reception centre in Dendermonde was postponed by six months until the end of August 2017 in order to organise the transition in a better way. On 29 June 2016, 950 places for unaccompanied minors were free at a total capacity of 2 966 places. During the period 2016-2017, Fedasil plans to reduce and close 450 shelters for unaccompanied minors. Today 298 unaccompanied foreigners are being taken into care centres specifically for unaccompanied minors, who will be closed in the future. So we are talking about 298 young people. Fedasil does not use the lower limit of occupation as a criterion for closing down a centre. The quality of care in the centre is the first priority, especially for this target group. That is why I have also concluded conventions with the Communities for the reception of unaccompanied minors under the age of 15 who will be organised by Youth Welfare and SAJ. The placement of unaccompanied minors in foster homes has also started. For example, we are building together a more qualitative reception network for unaccompanied minors. The agreement with Mr Madrane was signed a few weeks ago and the agreement with Mr Vandeurzen was also approved last Friday by the Flemish Government and has now been signed. It's about 120 places, if I'm not mistaken. As regards education, specifically for unaccompanied minors, it is the norm at Fedasil that young people are only transferred within the same language region, with possibly an exception for disciplinary transfers or transfers to an adapted place. For example, a transfer to a suitable place involves medical places, placing family in another center or moving to a smaller group because the young person needs it. The change of language region may have been or may have been one of the counter-arguments considered. For the sake of clarity: moving to another language region, something with which some people suddenly have enormous problems to my great surprise, and I am really looking forward to it, almost never happens. I'll give you the numbers later. If it happens, there are very good reasons for it. Fedasil has confirmed to me that the profile of every young person who lives today in centres that will eventually have to close will be taken into account. On this basis, the best solution will be sought for the young person in question. This will take into account the young person's time spent in Belgium, the length of his schooling and his level of proficiency in the country's language. I think it is important to know that in the first few weeks every unaccompanied minor is staying in an OOC, an Observatory and Orientation Centre, in Lower-Over-Heembeek, the Brussels-Capital Region, or in Steenokkerzeel, the Flemish Region. From there they are assigned to care to which they most need, for example a small group, a larger group or a family. Those who spend the first few weeks in Steenokkerzeel can be transferred to Wallonia after three weeks. It's been happening for years. In this context, I have read the craziest things about the past few weeks of people who have not understood it very well. I am not saying that you did not understand correctly, Mrs Lanjri, I would just like to make that clear to the committee's report. Hence my explanation. The active network of young people and their specific needs will also be taken into account. They're also looking at the network. They find out who his family is, who he already knows and what his specific needs are. All this will be done in consultation with the young person, the social service and his guardian. As underlined, a better solution will be sought for each young person on the basis of his/her individual file. Continuity of education means that unaccompanied minors may continue their education in the best possible circumstances if they have to leave their current reception location. Fedasil always strives to avoid as many transfers as possible during the school year to ensure the continuity of education. There are therefore no transfers during the school year in principle, except for disciplinary transfers and for exceptional reasons. For the record, disciplinary transfers are about young people who behave badly. Think of incident in Germany last night, that happens. Fortunately, with so many victims, we have not yet experienced such a situation. But it is not exceptional that a knife fight is taking place, initiated by an unaccompanied Afghan minor of 17 years of age or in which he was involved. That's not exceptional, dear people. It's not like this has never happened before. Fortunately, this is not the case with us, but there are quite a few disciplinary transfers. As I said last week, a 16-year-old child from Afghanistan is not in all respects comparable to a 16-year-old Flemish or Belgian. I can tell you the same thing. They're something else pedagogized. I can say that as a pedagogue. Fedasil therefore always strives to avoid as many transfers as possible during the school year to ensure the continuity of education. I come to the shelter of the NBMV for the future. The childcare model for unaccompanied minors will continue to be organised in three phases, as conceived in 2013. We have always been able to safeguard this model during the very large influx. I think there is also a broad support for this. I should hope so. As mentioned above, we have also succeeded, through good cooperation with my competent colleagues from the Communities, in concluding new partnerships providing for the reception of very young unaccompanied minors. Those are the most vulnerable, under 15 years old. However, I would like to stress that this is not only the case for the Flemish Community, but also for the French Community, with Mr Madrane, we really have good contact. In total, this is about 400 places. So that's a serious capacity. NGOs will also enable Fedasil to provide a more adapted environment for vulnerable profiles through the so-called target sites. For example, we are currently working on additional places for unaccompanied minors in the third phase. A sufficiently large buffer of around 7 500 places will be provided to provide a bed for all asylum seekers in the event of a new increased influx. Mrs De Coninck, your question about education and teachers must be put to Mrs Crevits. I don't know how that's organized. Mrs Lanjri, you asked a specific question about how many young people have been transferred to another region or between Flanders and Wallonia since January. It concerns a very limited number of young people. Since March 2016, this concerns no more than 53 unaccompanied minor foreigners out of a total of 2 043 unaccompanied minor foreigners receiving Fedasil today. Of these 53 files, 36 were disciplinary transfers. A total of 53 young people have been transferred since March. These are 36 disciplinary transfers, of which barely seven are to another language region. Even in the disciplinary transfers, we try to keep them within the language region, but that is not always possible. The other 17 unaccompanied underage foreigners moved because of adapted places. Seven young people at 2 043 who had to move to another language region for disciplinary reasons, that is 0.34 %. It concerns a total of seven young people, disciplineally suspended, who have been moved to another language region since March. That is March, April, May, June and mid-July or four and a half months. When extrapolating this, we are talking about absolute exceptions: disciplinary transfers which are not immediately carried out within the language region or which may have been moved three or four times within the language region and for which there is no room, because no one wants them and they need to be sent to another language region. To Flanders or Wallonia. But whose fault is that? We have to stay a little serious. In your question you refer to the tumult which has arisen in the media and thus indirectly to the young people who have recently left the centre of Dendermonde. Without having to discuss the individual dossiers here, I would nevertheless like to give you the basis on which the decisions were based. Specifically about Dendermonde were 14 unaccompanied underage foreigners who were transferred. Four unaccompanied underage foreigners went to a suitable place in a small-scale group because they needed it and couldn't thrive in a center like Dendermonde. One underage stranger went to stay in the center where his older brother also stayed, that was his choice, it happened at his request. Five unaccompanied minors were not well educated and had difficulty in the large structure of the shelter at Dendermonde. One unaccompanied underage stranger moved to Rixensart at his own request, because of the specialised care offered there at our shelter in Rixensart. I went to visit it, it's highly recommended. Three unaccompanied underage foreigners have moved to an adult centre because age studies have shown that they were of age. Conclusion, dear people. This is a matter which, in my view, has been greatly blown up from a particular angle, but which is in fact being addressed and dealt with as much as possible by our services, with the necessary pedagogical accountability and with great caution. At some point, that case was blown to enormous proportions. We would, so to speak, transfer dozens of young people across the language border, where they would then, Imagine, end up in French-speaking education or vice versa. However, it concerns 0.34 %, being seven people, for whom there was no other solution because of a disciplinary transfer than to send them across the language line to another reception centre. I honestly think it's a much ado about nothing case. Fedasil keeps an eye on it very well. As I and you know Fedasil, I can assure you that it will be done in a very correct and responsible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to point out that five groups, both from the majority and from the opposition, have tabled questions on this matter. It is therefore a concern and at least a point of interest that is widely borne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u19	(...) Submitting a question is something else than being present here to ask them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u20	Five parliamentarians from five political groups have felt the need to question you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u21	To put a question on that, (...) It was not so necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u22	This concern is widespread in Parliament, across the boundaries of opposition and majority. I want to wipe you out to take that concern with me. U zegt:much ado about nothing. We must avoid the transfer of a minor alien, even within the language area, and therefore be taken away from a particular environment against his will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u24	Those places of refuge shall not be closed and minors shall not be transferred unless there is no alternative. That is the principle that we must apply. A disciplinary reason may be a reason to effectively do such a relocation. It's not just about moving to another language area. A transfer from Steenokkerzeel or Neder-Over-Heembeek to another language area is not the problem here. The problem is the transfer of a reception centre for unaccompanied minors from one language area to another. So it's not about the OOCs. Moreover, I have not read anywhere that anyone in Parliament or any other interest group would have denounced such movements. It's about those other movements between shelters. Minors need specific guidance. It is very important for them to get into a stable environment and have continuity. It's often children who've been traumatized. So we absolutely must avoid that. Much to do about nothing , you translate that percentage. I would point out that this could be a life case for any individual minor. So we do not need to draw this on bottles and translate it as a percentage. We absolutely must avoid that. You answer that it will certainly not happen during the school year. That is, of course, a minimum minimorum. However, I would like to point out that Dendermonde would be closed by the end of 2016. That's a decision that was reversed after that. However, the government did intend to close Dendermonde in the middle of the school year. That shows that a correction has been made. This also shows that corrections have yet to be made. I would therefore ask you to take the message of five groups here in Parliament seriously. You have even been asked to reverse decisions. You did not reply to that in your reply. However, I would ask you to consider that for sure and therefore to take this question from five political groups in Parliament to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the fuss has also been created by the combination of closing down a number of centres and taking a number of measures and decisions on specific cases, which shows that qualitative guidance, especially of unaccompanied minors, is a concern and concern of many of us. So I wouldn't be so defensive about that. The recommendation that we could make is that it should be communicated more openly and clearly from the outset. In that case, there will probably be much less worrying questions. With regard to your statement much ado about nothing, we are simply asking for explanations on a number of decisions. We have a right to do so, because we are very much concerned about the supervision of minors. As far as disciplinary measures are concerned, I have some experience with aggressive clients and people. At some point it is indeed necessary to indicate the framework within which we are playing. I also understand a number of decisions in this area. It is true that young people from war areas are growing up much faster, with all the positive and negative consequences. We have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think there is at least a lack of clarity here. I see you're talking about seven transfers to Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u27	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u28	Okay, that could be in the other direction, too. This isn't that much, is it? Yet we get messages and emails. I received an e-mail from a family waiting for an unaccompanied minor and after months of preparations this was suddenly cancelled. Is this about rumors going around? It's about facts. Either something is wrong with the information we get, or something is wrong with the information you get. You give the figures on transfers to another language region. You say that people are trying to avoid this, but sometimes it doesn't seem to work. You also mentioned 298 young people who should be transferred to another centre. What is the deadline for these transfers? Does this happen to another center in the same language area and region? If so, these young people can continue to attend the same school. Transferring to another language region is a problem, but if they have to be transferred through the closure of a centre, can we ensure that they stay in the same environment so that they can continue to attend the same school? In this way we will solve many problems for education, because they also need to know whether they will still have to set up reception classes in September and take specific measures for unaccompanied minors. Those 298 people are therefore a large group. That's 300 kids. So they do not go to another language area. Where are they going, and what term are we talking about? When will they be transferred? Can you clarify that, because that was not clear in your reply. I just want to get pure information. I am not doing this to start a polemic, but if we know that, we can link it back to the people who are asking questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u29	Five political groups have tabled questions, but there are only three to ask them. For two groups it seems therefore that it is not so necessary to actually show up and ask the question. However, the other three groups are present and I have enormous respect for that. My point is that in the period I spoke of, no one has been transferred, let alone across the language line. Zero persons were transferred against their will. Zero! I've been going over it. There were seven disciplinary transfers. In that case, it was against their will, but one can sometimes lead to another. This is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure, which is explained very clearly to them in their contact language on day 1 by the social assistants and interpreters. They know where they stand when they apply for asylum in our country, even though they are minors. As far as disciplinary transfers are concerned, they are very often people who are 17 years old or more, but they are still minors. There are therefore zero people transferred against their will, except for the seven who had behaved badly. There are sometimes reasons to make a transfer. These reasons often come from the person concerned. For example, a pregnant teenage mother who says she thinks the center is too big can be transferred to Rixensart, who specialises in the care of pregnant teenage mothers. If she wants to, she can be taken in there, along with other teenage mothers. It is also her right to do so. That is why there is such a specific reception. Other examples are young people who are difficult to find in a large group, for example through trauma complications, or someone who wants to stay in the same center as his brother. Fedasil has not obliged anyone to transfer, apart from the seven disciplinary transfers. I don't have a problem with those seven disciplinary transfers. In fact, this is purely a matter of applying the law. With regard to the 298 reception points, I can say that the closures are foreseen for the period 2016-2017. All kinds of centers are closing down, but I don't have the details of that right now. We can come back to that later. There'll be a plan anyway. Mr De Vriendt, you say that I have sent the plan. That's right. I'm not too proud to admit that I've sent a plan. The whole crisis of shelter went down and up. We have had to adjust a lot, and that will still have to be done. The aforementioned closure took place in the middle of the school year because the contract had come to an end, which was very bad. It was a school in Dendermonde owned by the province that had to return to Dendermonde. That school is being sold or would be given a different interpretation. It would have been wiser to close at the end of August anyway, because we still had two months left to carry out any transfers during the holiday. However, it is not certain that 298 young people are still in their asylum procedure at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u30	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u31	Yes, of course. For some, the procedure will take more than a year, by which time a number of asylum applications will have already been dealt with. You can rest assured that I dare to say to Mr Van den Bulck that it would be a good thing if a decision were taken so that these young people would not have to be transferred again, but would be able to establish themselves permanently as recognised refugees, after which a new route would begin for them. This new route usually also starts with a transfer, for example a self-solicited transfer. For example, there are young people in Dendermonde in the final secondary school while their procedure is under way, but they decide, once they are recognized, to live in Antwerp in a project of self-guided living. So these young people are going to be in another, new project. They will also go to another school, but that will be their choice. Those who choose to live in Brussels and take their course in French make that choice themselves. It may seem like an irresponsible transfer, but it is a choice of its own. I have just instructed my collaborator to list what is planned for the 298 young people. As Secretary of State, I am in any case instructing my services to limit transfers to the maximum and to ensure that everything is resolved by the time of the closure of shelters. For the most part, that's gonna work. Will no one have to be transferred? I don't put my hand in the fire for that. I can't do that. You understand that, too. We will come back to this when there is a list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u32	It is precisely our question, Mr Minister, that you will limit this to the maximum. In recent months, however, we have seen that this has not always happened, including with regard to a number of announcements of closures of specific centres for unaccompanied minors. For the sake of clarity, this is not just about individual transfers, but also about the closure of certain centres, such as Dendermonde and Overijse. Our group is asking very clearly to limit this to the maximum and, if possible, not to close centres for the reception of unaccompanied minors, unless there is a natural outflow or unless the centres become empty. If that is not the case, we believe that these centres should not be closed down, that minors should be allowed to take off their cycles until they are naturally discharged. I think this is very important. These are children and a particular environment in which we can offer continuity over a number of years. After all, it is only about a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u33	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it would be interesting to follow those 300 children, to launch an investigation from their arrival to three or four years later. By registering that, we can learn which choices we make best, also quality, and around guided living, also in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u34	That could be an interesting investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u35	I have a little experience with that. That's not always obvious. I know this isn't your jurisdiction, but custody isn't always working out. I believe that we should invest much more in this, in the interests of social cohesion and good integration of young people, and that we should possibly work with the Communities around it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u36	I do believe that we should come back to the concrete plan at a later date. In 2016-2017, some 300 will have to be transferred, perhaps less if decisions have been taken in the past. I understand that a centre cannot be kept open if it is empty at 90%. If only ten of the 100 available beds are occupied, while all the staff have to participate, then I understand that another solution must be found. I don't have a problem with that. However, Mr Secretary of State, I believe that this other solution can be found, for example, in the cooperation with LOI. If one has to close a centre in Overijse, or anywhere else, because it is simply not feasible to keep that centre open to some young people, then one can make arrangements on the spot with the OCMW or the LOI to be able to accommodate that limited group of young people so that those young people can simply go to the same school. I agree with Mrs De Coninck's question. Maybe it's interesting to follow young people, but then we have to do it wider than just the 300.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u38	I'm not saying that. We have to make agreements with them. You can include that in your plans. If one knows that one is likely to have a transfer within six months, for example, one can see if one can convince a LOI in this municipality or in the neighborhood. Otherwise, one can work with an NGO, create a number of places or recognise additional places to accommodate those young people. I understand that no other people should be moved if they are still there, but if one can come to cooperation with the municipality it might be willing to take on those five or ten young people. That would be good if one could effectively keep them there. I therefore propose that we effectively seek that solution. If a number of transfers are to be made, it is best to do them in the summer, not in September or October when the school year is already in progress, especially if they have to change schools. I hope you can arrange it so they don't have to change schools. That's what it's all about. I think that Mrs De Coninck's proposal to follow up young people is a good one. A number of young people can be followed as pilot projects or pilot projects. We follow those who are caught in a specific center, but also those who are caught by a LOI. Then we can look at which form of reception leads to the best results in terms of integration. We need to work on that. Eventually, even if some of them have been rejected as asylum seekers, those young people will stay with us until they are 18 years old. If they want, they can stay here. We must take that into account. Their integration must therefore be pursued. We shall certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u39	My next question, Mr Secretary of State, is partly in line with this, but is specifically about the LOIs that are being left empty because of the huge fall in the influx of asylum seekers. The latter is good in itself and it is logical that we reduce the additional emergency shelters in the major centres. The Reception Act provides that refugees must leave the reception centre within two months of recognition. There is a possibility to request an extension. In 10 % of cases it is requested to stay for more than two months at the reception centre because one does not immediately find a home. You'd ease the rules a little bit. Is that what happened in the meantime? Accredited refugees are having a hard time finding a home in the private rental market. They have no fixed work, which makes it difficult to pay the two-month rent guarantee requested by the landlords. To do so, they must ask the OCMW for an intervention, which is not always easy. Renting completed or closed LOIs to recognised, otherwise protected refugees could solve the housing problem. One could at that time lift the recognition as a LOI and turn that place into an ordinary home of the OCMW, a flow-through residence. Have you consulted with the competent regional ministers to address the housing problem, to ensure a smooth flow from the LOI or the shelter to private market housing and the possible transformation of vacant LOIs, which are therefore no longer recognised as LOI, into an ordinary OCMW residence? What are the results of the consultation? Have you also consulted the VVSG and its French-speaking counterpart on the housing problem? Do you foresee a longer support of LOIS to address the temporary problem of housing? If a recognised refugee does not find accommodation, he or she shall apply for a derogation each time. Could you also consider a structural solution, for example by extending the two-month period to three or four months? Or should an approved refugee still apply for the derogation individually? Will you relax the rule in this matter? You announced that a few months ago in response to my question at the time. At the time, you found the arrangement rather rigid and wanted to ease it. Is that what happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u40	I believe housing is extremely important as a first step towards the integration of recognised refugees. I note that a number of cities, now that the influx of refugees has been reduced, simply leave empty the infrastructure they had earmarked for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. Moreover, they often do not help recognised refugees to find accommodation in the city. However, the need is very great. Is there any coordination between you and the local authorities on housing policy and is there any effort in this respect? I would not like to see the temporary housing problem become a permanent problem. What is your vision on sustainable housing policies and the integration of newcomers? Can the LOI system be integrated instead of being phased out and reoriented towards solving housing problems, whether temporarily or not? In the meantime, have any LOIS been reoriented to fill the shortage in the social housing market? Where do you stand on the rental of vacant LOIS to recognised refugees? Do you see any added value there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u41	Colleagues, the outflow of recognised residents from the shelter is indeed based on Fedasil. However, offering solutions to the most important problem during the transition, namely the difficulty of finding an affordable accommodation outside the reception network, is not within my competence or that of Fedasil. However, we do not avoid our responsibility. It is indeed important to consult with the competent authorities. Operational consultations with the VVSG, the UVCW and the VSGB are regularly held at Fedasil level. I have consulted them several times, together with Mr Borsus, and the housing challenge has been discussed several times. Among other things, we want to address the transition as well as possible within the limits of Fedasil's powers. Offering a solution to the housing problems outside the reception network is not our responsibility. That does not mean, however, that we are doing nothing. For example, Fedasil is working on measures to facilitate transition and the outflow of recognised residents. Fedasil also supports projects under the national specific conventions and the European AMI Fund for the support of residents during the transition and assistance in finding accommodation outside the reception network. I visited one of these in Brussels, organized by Caritas. It was worth it. In addition, the LOIs who have available places still have the possibility, within the agreements made, to open up free places for the long-term housing of recognised refugees. However, that happens independently of Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u43	With all the ministers responsible for housing? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u45	With Mrs. Homans, not officially, no. Although I see her a lot. Mrs De Coninck, LOI places can easily be transformed if requested by the municipality. In addition to the possibility of suspending LOI places, instructions for the introduction of the new collection model are now being finalised, the layout of which was delayed due to the very high influx in summer and autumn 2015. On the basis of that model, also referred to in the policy statement, individual reception is reserved for persons who acquired the residence status during a transition to financial support, for persons with a high level of protection and for vulnerable asylum seekers with specific needs. The objective of the model is precisely to ensure the sustainable and smooth integration of those involved in society, because their stay in a LOI will speed up their journey to the various services of the local OMCW. Optimisation of the network using the new collection model thus provides an answer to fill the empty LOI spaces. A number of municipalities have already indicated their willingness to use this option. In relation to flexibility, I am not in favour of automatically extending the residence period to three or four months. That was also very clearly agreed in the government. I am in favour of a system that encourages responsibility. Subject to motivation, the period of stay will also be extended more easily. That's the deal with Fedasil. This does not only happen if they can submit a rental contract, but also if they can prove that they have made an effort to search. What I said at the time in plenary has now been implemented. Meetings have taken place and instructions have been given. As regards the suspension of LOI places and their possible use as accommodation for recognised refugees, the necessary steps have already been taken. There has been consultation with the Homans cabinet, although I have not personally been with the minister. I have never personally sat with the ministers Vandeurzen or Crevits, but everything has gone through our cabinets. It's going well. Fedasil is also very often associated with the various partners. However, as I have said several times, I attach quite a lot of importance to the various powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, of course everyone has their authority and responsibility, but cooperation pays off. It is not for nothing that you and Mr Muyters recently joined forces to work together in the field of employment. There's no shame in working together. When I ask you if you've been together, it doesn't mean that I think you should be there personally. If there is consultation to address the housing problem at cabinet level, that is just as good for me. I believe that there is still work to be done in this area. I think it's going to be the biggest challenge. We are now at a time when a lot of dossiers are being finalised and a decision is being made. For many refugees of the same nationality, the degree of recognition is very high. Of the 40 000 people who applied for asylum in our country last year, some 40% to 60% would be recognised. This means that housing must also be effectively sought and that further work on integration and work can be carried out. Let us work together there in all ways, at the level of the government and at the level of the NGOs involved. I'm glad you visited, among other things, Caritas' project. We can only support and encourage such initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, you are naturally very voluntarist. You have also shown this in dealing with the recent asylum crisis. You are making efforts, for example, to get a newcomer's statement and get it through; you want it to be done. However, you must be aware that housing is a very serious problem. Qualitative housing, in itself there is already a problem in our country, for everyone. If a large group of recognised refugees is added, you decide that they can stay here and you impose obligations of integration on them through the signature of the newcomer's declaration, then I do not understand why you are hiding behind the discussion of competence. Of course, everyone has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u48	I can't solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u49	The refugee must take responsibility. I don't have a problem with that. But governments must also take responsibility for decisions they have taken. A person has been recognised as a refugee and requires him to take responsibility, integrate sustainably and make efforts. But when he goes looking for a home and he doesn't find one, for all kinds of reasons, for example because of discrimination, then the newcomer's statement should take that into account, if that's the case. I think you should sit with all the Ministers of Housing, but also with all the Ministers of Education and Work, to see how you can solve this. If you can let refugees flow out of a LOI much faster into good housing, it is also good for the federal level. You do your best, but other ministers say foretell, think that everyone should draw their plan and make it even more difficult, after which they can claim at the end of the story that the refugees concerned have not done their best, individually. Something's not right there. You're wise enough to understand that. The problem can be solved if we are creative. I am thinking here of using the many vacant office buildings. You can develop modules that are quickly and temporarily put into operation for two years. At that time one can build social housing. I also notice that in Brussels municipalities are currently experimenting with small, temporary new buildings. After the Second World War, we also established a lot of temporary homes in Flanders to accommodate citizens. There are all kinds of formulas in the Netherlands and in the Scandinavian countries. When you search Google, you will find temporary homes at a reasonable price. You can even have them paid by recognized refugees. After all, they get an income. That they have to pay rent or pay for the leasing of a temporary home, why not. However, you must sit at the table with the local authorities and the Länder in order to solve the problem in a structural manner. You can act in coordination. However, you must encourage everyone to accept their responsibilities. I can believe you're meeting a lot with Mrs. Homans. But perhaps you are not doing so in the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, people who have been brought to an end by a negative decision at the end of the asylum procedure, or people who, at some point, are not entitled to a right of residence, are given an order to leave the territory. Some follow up on this, others don't. They're hiding and staying illegally on our territory. So it happens that the police find people without a valid right of residence. The police then warns the DVZ, who can follow up the determination. The DVZ may issue a new order to leave the territory or transfer the person to a closed centre. That's what's gonna happen. However, I have received e-mails saying that the police would be very focused on searching for people in illegal residence. In certain cases, the police would even enter the house to do checks or track people, without a search warrant. If there's a search warrant, it's obvious that something like that should be possible. I have the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. What are the guidelines for the police forces and the DVZ to track down people in illegal residence? Are the services encouraged to actively track down people in illegal residence or are they rather passive and are passed on when they happen to be found, for example in routine checks by the police of cars, in the street or in a café in a raid etc.? Do you know that some local police have other practices? Do you know of any cases where the police enter the house to actively track people down? Is that contrary to Article 15 of the Constitution on the inviolability of the home? In principle, this is only allowed with a search warrant. How is that done in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u51	Ms Lanjri, in order to ensure the follow-up of orders to leave the territory, the SEFOR service was set up in June 2011, with the task of following up all the GVVs who conclude proceedings. Follow-up procedures have been established: on the one hand, about sensitisation to voluntary departure; on the other hand, if the order is not executed, about the organisation of forced departure. The foreigner concerned will be informed of his rights and obligations upon service of the FGM. He will be reminded of the importance of voluntary or independent departure. If the person concerned voluntarily fails to comply with the FGM, an active search will be carried out. For this purpose, the SEFOR department requests address checks from local police. If the person concerned is found, he will be detained in a closed centre and removed from the territory. The Aliens Office permanently sensitizes the local police to carry out the requested address checks. Given the limited place in the closed centres, priority is given in any case to those who pose a threat to public policy. The DVZ also calls on the local police to pay attention to the documents and data that give clues about identity. If there are documents to support the identity of the foreigner, he will be able to be removed more quickly. Priority is given to foreigners who have already been identified and/or for whom the return can be organised quickly, in order to keep the time limit as short as possible and to use the restricted places as optimally as possible. Not every order to leave the territory will result in an address check. It is possible that the person concerned does not have a known address or that he has lodged a suspensory appeal procedure. In addition, one person may receive multiple orders to leave the territory. What you mean by keeping other practices is not quite clear to me. Finally, I do not know what you are referring to in your fourth question. I can only observe that Article 15 of the Constitution is an obstacle to the follow-up of the GVVVs. The police and the DVZ are confronted with a number of people who do not open the door when the police ring for forced removal. The property can only be entered in a number of cases, with a search warrant or audible emergency call, and in the case of address checks, in case the foreigner concerned gives permission to enter a voluntary residence and the police act in the minutes. According to your well-known Article 15 of the Constitution, therefore, a residence is only possible if someone is in extreme need and calls for help, only by a search warrant or if the resident voluntarily gives access to his residence, and in the latter case, the police must act in the minutes that it is a voluntary residence. So I don't know exactly where you're getting your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, when I am talking about other practices, I mean that the police should normally have a search warrant, while I have received a story by e-mail from a person who reports that the rules have not been followed. In the meantime, the person concerned has also initiated proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u53	(...) do a search without a warrant?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u54	The police have indeed invaded the house.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u55	Without a warrant?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u56	Without a warrant, that's right. It was an older lady. That's why...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u58	Do you mind if I finish? I am telling you clearly that I have received an e-mail, with a story in which name and name are mentioned. That woman told a story about her son and said that the police have effectively entered without a search warrant and that she had not given permission. I think that's weird. That's why I'm asking you the question. I would like to know what the normal course of action is. As far as this specific case is concerned, they will have to proceed with proceedings, and they will have to do so. I was just trying to find out if anything has changed our policy. If you want to enter a house, you must have a search warrant for it. You can now say that they do, but that it is not true. I don't know. I'm telling you, I got that story. It sounds very strange to me. They will now try to get them right through the court. Is it true that the police were wrong to enter that house? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u59	Questions Nos 12589 by Mrs Vanessa Matz and 12613 by Mr Emir Kir were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u60	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 migration flows in Belgium also affected women and children. It is a fragile and vulnerable population in the face of the fight to seek asylum from Belgium. Often, these women are exposed to a range of dangers: physical threats, racketism, sexual exploitation and rape. A study of the Socialist Anticipating Women shows an overwhelming finding regarding the health conditions in which these women arrive and the sometimes inadequate medical responses to them. Moreover, this status as a woman could in this case be a ground for granting asylum in Belgium in case of persecution. Unfortunately, the terrible situations experienced by some women during armed conflicts are sometimes difficult to share, much more with unknown people, who do not speak your language and who sometimes do not have specific professional psychological baggage. Mr Secretary of State, could you give us some statistics on asylum applications made by women alone or with children? Are sexual grounds taken into account in asylum applications? Could you inform us about the medical procedures taken care of in the places of reception and in particular the accompaniment intended for women, such as gynaecological visits? Could you inform me whether reception and listening facilities, coordinated by sufficiently trained social workers, exist in reception facilities to support and encourage these women to express their suffering?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u61	Mr President, honourable member, in 2015, out of a total of 44,760 asylum applications, 13,072 were submitted by women or girls, corresponding to 29.2%. For the first five months of 2016, out of a total of 8,232 asylum applications, 2,695 were submitted by women or girls, corresponding to 32.7 per cent, or one third. The Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) does not have statistics on applications by single women or women with children. Gender-related considerations may be taken into account in granting protection status, in particular for obtaining refugee status. These elements are assessed by the competent independent bodies, at first instance the CGRA and, in the case of an appeal, the Aliens Litigation Council (CCE). These bodies take into account legal definitions and, in particular, the definition of refugee status. Medical care is guaranteed for asylum seekers. If necessary, the physician may refer the person to a hospital or specialized department. As soon as the person arrives at the dispatch, a first screening is carried out. With regard to women in particular, a nurse will, among other things and to the extent possible, be informed of a possible pregnancy in order to ensure the feasibility of the TBT test and to provide the best guidance to the individual. If the child is actually pregnant, a checklist will be consulted and completed to inform the designated reception centre. The dispatch will designate the person in question as a centre close to a hospital for follow-up. It should be noted that if the asylum seeker is a MENA, she will be redirected to the specific reception centre which will have set up specific collaborations for this target group with hospitals and gynaecologists close to the reception centre. The reception centre in Louvranges run by Caritas is also specialized in the specific reception for women alone or with children. As with each asylum-seeker, a medical assessment is carried out and a medical file is drawn up. Depending on the needs, the person will then be referred to specialists. Social workers are trained to listen. However, women are invited to attend groups of words initiated by, among others, ASBL GAMS, ASBL EXIL or the Women's Collective. Further training is also provided for social workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I note that there is no statistics on applications made by women alone or with children at CGRA. It would be interesting to have one since we work in most institutions on the basis of gender data. For the future, it would also be wise because this audience is particular. I understand what you are telling me about possible pregnancies, but gynaecological problems are not limited to pregnancy; there are many other difficulties in this area. Particular attention may need to be paid to these. Finally, I have heard you talk about groups of words in particular. Do you not think that it would be appropriate for family planning to also be invited to participate as they will face young girls and their questions in terms of sexuality tomorrow? Information will have to be given to them in order to ensure their well-being. This is part of the integration process in which I understood that you wanted to register.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u63	Mr President, I am reminded that a letter has recently been sent to Afghan asylum seekers currently residing in Belgian reception centres. The content of this letter is clearly intended to discourage them from continuing their proceedings in Belgium, by linking up a series of obstacles between their current situation and the recognition of their status, in particular with regard to the possibility of access to individual reception, considering that Afghanistan is not one of the countries with high rates of recognition. It concludes with a call to benefit from the conditions of voluntary return. Following this letter, I would like to ask you several questions. What is the rate of recognition of Afghan asylum seekers over the past two years? At what threshold do you set the notion of high recognition? As part of the compulsory distribution plan between municipalities, many localities have taken the necessary measures to provide individual accommodation. What is the current occupancy rate of individual accommodation? Would it justify excluding families of applicants, even if they did not come from a country with a high rate of recognition, as you indicated in your mail? To the extent that this component of the network is saturated, why have the distribution plan been suspended? With regard to voluntary return, what proportion of applicants opting for voluntary return, particularly for Iraqis and Afghans? Is there any follow-up as to the fate of these applicants making the strongly oriented choice of this return?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u64	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, in 2016, as part of the review of asylum applications by Afghan nationals, CGRA issued 805 decisions concerning 913 persons. The CGRA protection rate since the beginning of 2016 has been 49.5%. In determining its protection policy, the CGRA takes into account the UNHCR guidelines, the case law of the JRC and the ECHR in Strasbourg. The CGRA recognition rate is close to that of neighbouring countries. However, many final decisions are made at the level of the Office of Foreigners. This is particularly the case with technical refusals, abstentions and "Dublin" refusals. In 2016, the Office took 668 negative final decisions for Afghan asylum seekers, 433 refusals "Dublin" and 235 abstentions. Taking these data into account, the rate of positive decisions is still much lower, much lower. It is therefore correct to note that more than half of Afghan asylum applications will not result in the granting of protection status, which is why I have decided to implement a campaign to stimulate voluntary returns among Afghan asylum seekers. The current occupancy rate for individual reception is 71.78 per cent under the new reception model. In accordance with the Government Agreement, collective reception is preferred as a model of reception. Individual reception is reserved for certain groups of vulnerable persons: physically disabled persons, pregnant women, isolated persons with children, MENA and then asylum seekers with a high chance of being recognised. A fixed threshold for determining the latter group is not established but may vary, among other things, depending on the occupancy rate in collective centres. In addition, the allocation plan has not been suspended but has never been activated given the significant reduction in the number of asylum applications in recent months. A significant number of voluntary returns take place each year. For 2015, there were a total of 4,053 people who chose to participate in a voluntary return programme, specifically for Iraqis and Afghans. In 2015, there were 1,023 voluntary returns of Iraqis and 54 of Afghans. For the first five months of 2016, Fedasil recorded 683 voluntary returns from Iraqis and 107 from Afghans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this information. I will read the figures more precisely when I have the report. However, I am concerned about the letters you send. I take as an example the one you have addressed to the Iraqis in which you believe that Iraq, in any case Baghdad, is a safe country. Recently, more than 200 people have died there. In view of the consequences this may have, it is therefore dangerous to send them such a letter stating that Iraq is a safe country. There's something to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u66	I never said that Iraq was a safe country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 12612 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, on 28 June you visited, alongside the Danish Minister Inger Stojberg, two refugee centres in Denmark. Refugees in reception centres receive three meals a day, can attend training, and are mobilized for small jobs and other maintenance tasks. In order to benefit from pocket money (one to three euros per day), the occupants must attend ten hours of training, including language courses, and work for a few hours in the same centres. On the occasion of this visit, you said that it is now possible to do the same in Belgium since the recent amendment of the asylum legislation, which extends the scope of possible sanctions to the definitive exclusion of reception facilities and the withdrawal of the right to pocket money. Secretary of State, these are my questions. Have you ever spoken with your colleagues from the federated entities, in charge of integration, for the systematic organisation of language courses in the reception centres, on the Danish model? Are you considering funding the federated entities on language courses so that associative actors already supported by these entities can have access to the reception centres? Finally, what provisions of the recent law on penalties for persons in breach of order in reception centres make you say that a system of compensation, in this case worthless, since we are talking about one to three euros, is now possible in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u69	Mr Hellings, Fedasil has always encouraged asylum seekers in reception centres to take language courses, both within the reception structure and through referrals to outside institutions or associations. Language courses are generally very successful among asylum-seekers accepted. It is also important to establish structural collaboration with regional integration bodies. This work is under way; consultations are currently being held with the Inburgering Integrated Agentschap in order to examine how asylum seekers accepted into the reception network could start, at first, on a voluntary basis in any case, certain aspects of the Flemish integration route, such as language courses. The idea will be to arrive at a protocol of collaboration and it will, of course, be desirable to have a similar collaboration with the integration bodies of the other Regions. It is not Fedasil's mission to fund federated entities in their integration-related competencies. On the other hand, as explained in the previous point, arrangements for collaboration between regional integration bodies and host structures should be encouraged in order to facilitate the organisation of courses within the host structures. The law passed in plenary session on 9 June 2016 amends section 45 of the Act of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories. The new Article 45(7) allows the temporary abolition or reduction, for a maximum of four weeks, of the daily allowance of an asylum-seeker in the event of a serious breach of the regime and operating rules applicable to reception facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, you sometimes draw on good ideas, like those that exist in Denmark. The organisation of language courses at the time closest to the installation and arrival of the asylum seeker, including in the period prior to receiving the official decision of the authorities, is a good idea. It is clear that language courses, with regard to integration, are primarily the responsibility of the regions. It would be interesting if the French-speaking, Brussels-speaking and Walloon federated entities were most quickly placed around the table to imagine the same initiatives. Compared to your other idea, which is that of being able to make the receipt of a sum of money dependent in exchange for a job, I understand, after hearing your answer to my question, that the amendment to the law that took place in plenary session on 9 June 2016 concerns only sanctions. In the event of a serious breach, if I repeat the terms you have used, if it is a question of paying asylum seekers because they work, it is not a question of reducing what an asylum seeker is entitled to under the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u72	Not to work? Do you know that slavery is prohibited in Belgium? "Not working is a serious failure." No! A person who obtains a work permit under his or her right of residence can of course work! People can of course do a service and why not in a centre for asylum seekers. But removing what a person is entitled to under the law or regulations that apply in Belgium on behalf of the fact that he or she does not work would be very dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u73	You like to talk about slavery and other serious, serious and dangerous things... I do not think I recall that Denmark or other European countries have re-established slavery with the asylum crisis. In Denmark, asylum seekers are expected to perform tasks for 10 hours during their procedure, such as work or other broader tasks, and to take ten hours of lessons. Whoever doesn't gets no allowance. If you say, on behalf of your party, that this is the re-entry of modern slavery, I in turn find it extremely dangerous. Anyway, overkill from your angle, that's what we're used to in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u74	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary of State, but you're the one who used the phrase "failure to be serious"! If a person wants to work in Belgium, he or she has the right to do so. The minimum wage in Belgium, Secretary of State, is €1,501 per month. If you want to ensure that people work in refugee centres, do so but not for a salary of 1 to 3 euros a day. This has nothing to do with it! The provision of services to the community is of no concern. But every job deserves a salary! An asylum seeker is not an underworker. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u75	Mr Hellings, you need to study the dossier a little more. You do know that your party introduced the working principle in 2003? There was no bed-bath bread at the reception and reception centres in 1999, when your political party came to power. Then there was only cash. That was a fantastic idea. At the end of the day, you came up with a reception system which allows asylum seekers to work in the centres by carrying out all kinds of tasks such as cleaning the toilets, shoveling out food or mowing the grass. For this they receive some euro debt securities per day, which is therefore absolutely below the minimum wage. You now call this modern slavery, when you yourself introduced the system in 2003. And that system has never changed anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, you are relying on a punitive provision that the majority just voted in June 2016 to try to justify the fact that asylum seekers could, for reward, get what they are entitled to anyway. They are entitled to these financial means in order to be able to support themselves. You will use a punitive provision of the law to be able to withdraw the means available to them, under the rules that apply to them if they do not work, which is fundamentally different from the provisions that you have just discussed and that would have been made in 2004, when I was about 20 years old.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u77	You have entered slavery!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u78	Questions Nos 12888 and 13072 by Mrs Gabriels and Mr Kir were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, the law provides that a family may stay in its own home or a return home under the authority of the DVZ pending the removal of the territory under certain conditions. The conditions to be met by a family in order to stay in those homes are laid down in an agreement between the family and the DVZ. One of these conditions for the family is cooperation in the preparation of the return. If a family would not comply with those conditions, the Royal Decree of 17 September 2014 provides that the whole family or one family member can be locked up in a closed centre. The Council of State recently criticized this. Firstly, holding a family member, often the father, in a closed center is a disproportionate interference in family life. Secondly, the government has not fulfilled the obligation imposed by the Constitutional Court to adapt closed centres to the needs of children. This means that migrant children and their families must under no circumstances be locked up in closed centres. I hope that this practice will not happen again, because I have heard from sources that attempts are being made to put families in detention centres and that fathers are being held hostage regularly. What I also find strange is that families usually end up in return homes but also quickly disappear from them. I believe that there is, above all, a lack of qualitative guidance. When people are well informed and mentored, they make informed choices that lead to a sustainable solution, whether here or in the country of origin. As far as good guidance is concerned, you know the UK Family Returns Panel. It's an independent panel that guides families when they get a negative decision while they can just stay in their own home. The average duration of such guidance is three to six months and only 6% of families disappear. It is a recent but effective project. Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of questions. Can I get more insight into how many families are placed in return homes and how long they stay there on average? How many of them have disappeared and thus been placed in closed detention centres? Is it true that fathers are being locked up? How is it that closed centres have not yet been adapted to the needs of children following the demands of the Constitutional Court? Then some questions about the steps you will take. Do you guarantee that the statements of the Council of State will be followed? What does cooperation in the preparation of return mean? How do they receive concrete guidance in this? What are the results? What steps will you take to improve the guidance of families? What do you think of the example of the UK Family Returns Panel I quoted? Is that something you'd like to take over?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u80	Can I ask the honourable Member to use correct language in this delicate context? The DVZ doesn't hold people hostage, they hold people. I think hostages are an awfully heavy word. Moreover, the practices currently being applied do not differ from those of the last 20 years, Mrs De Coninck. Then there's been a hostage for a long time. The Council of State commented on two sanctions set out in the Royal Decree of 17 September 2014, in particular: the establishment of an adult family member in a closed centre and the establishment of the whole family in a closed centre for families who do not comply with the terms of the agreement with a view to accompanying their return from their home. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that in practice these two sanctions were not applied by the DVD in this context. It was never applied. For the second sanction, the comment of the Council of State merely concerned the fact that in the Royal Decree it was not added that the place should be adapted to the needs of a family with child children. You should know, Mrs De Coninck, that families with underage children in Belgium have not been kept in the closed centres since 2008 but in the housing units, the turtle houses. The families can be held very briefly in the Caricole transit centre in Steenokkerzeel and only if the circumstances make this possible, for example if a transfer to a housing unit is not immediately possible due to a late arrival at the airport. The Caricole also has suitable reception facilities, such as children's rooms where everything is available for those families. The retention is also limited to a maximum of a few hours, at most an overnight stay. Let me give you some examples. Someone arrives on a late flight and there's no way to get someone to a housing unit immediately. A family comes illegally to the border and the papers are not in order. Then they'll be held in the Caricole for a few hours before being taken to a housing unit. That's not new either. That has been happening for many years. So it's not about families who are now given the opportunity to leave their private home. This detention is not prohibited under the legislation. The family with minor children may be detained for as short a period as possible in a specific place, adapted to the needs of families with minor children, in order to proceed with the removal. Those are the turdhouses. It's called closed centers, but it's not closed. That's open. In 2017, individual homes will be provided on the site of the center 127bis in Steenokkerzeel for families fleeing the current housing units in which they are held or who do not comply with the rules and are subsequently found again. These housing units will be adapted to the needs of families with underage children and adapted framework will be provided, as requested by the Constitutional Court in its judgment. The works will start soon and the housing units will be ready next year, as by the way tendered under the previous government. As far as your comments on the framework for housing units are concerned, I believe that there is no lack of qualitative guidance. Unlike your claims, the functioning of the return homes is recognised as absolutely best practice by several NGOs and international delegations. You ignore the unwillingness of some families to be accompanied to return. Each family also enjoys personal guidance. For this there are two coaches per site. The following points should be highlighted. Firstly, most of the families who end up in return homes have already been informed of a safe return through various channels, including home coaching and Fedasil, and have always refused to accept it. It is therefore difficult to convince them of a voluntary return in a return home. Secondly, the open structure of the housing units also implies that families can escape. With the construction of closed housing units we hope to have a means of pressure in this area to convince people to stay in the housing units until the day of their removal. With regard to the figures you have given, I can say the following. In 2014, the average stay was 19 days, in 2015 26 days. This is about the average duration of stay in closed centres. So that's not about kids. Children are held for a maximum of a few hours, if there is no other way, for example on a late flight. This is about the average length of stay in the accommodation units. As far as the separation of families is concerned, I have to say that this is an exception rather than a rule. In 2015, only 12% of the total number of families were separated. This amounts to 20 families out of a total of 161 families. The reason why families can be separated include intra-family violence, drug use or other facts of public order, doubt about family ties and so on. SEFOR also makes every effort to transfer a family as a whole, but most of the time it lacks the help of the family itself. Mrs. De Coninck, I'm aware of the UK Family Returns Panel. However, the results are not nearly as positive as you suggest. From 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2014, so in two years time, 1 193 families stepped into a return process. 249 were assigned to the panel. There were only 92 ensured returns, which is 37 % forced to return. These figures come from the information contained in the Annual Report 2012-2014 of the Independent Family Returns Panel. Compared to this, our Aliens Office can present a better result for 2016 with 44 % sure return. The bottlenecks raised by the UK are the failure to show up at the time of effective disposal and legal procedures filed to prevent disposal. They are therefore facing the same problems and difficulties as we are. And our results are even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the information. Maybe I didn't get it right, 44 percent will definitely return and the rest won't?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u82	This year, 44 percent returned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u83	In a rest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u84	Either they are exempt, or they have started proceedings, or they have simply escaped. The housing units cost a lot of money and more than half escape, which has been for years, because those units are open. In 2008 it was decided not to lock anyone up anymore and this is the result. Those are just apartments, like anyone who lives in an apartment. That is why the previous government has tendered for a number of very family-friendly homes but closed, on a separate domain at 170 bis, as in the Netherlands and in almost all European countries, as an ultimate means of pressure. Now they know we can't lock them up. They know that, that goes around, they go 30 days in such an apartment, then they get out, sometimes they are deliberately arrested, then they go back 30 days, because that's shelter, that's all paid for. That's a really crazy game. You should pay a visit. It's really hard to talk to the social assistants there. If we had that as a stick behind the door, I would rather not use it, because it is not so cozy and that is not so pleasant at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u85	Mr President, Secretary of State, the NGO Doctors Without Borders no longer wants to receive EU money because of European refugee policy. According to Doctors Without Borders, this policy is aimed at deterrents rather than protecting people in need. The migration deal with Turkey currently puts more than 8 000 people in prison on the Greek islands, they say, including hundreds of unaccompanied minors. They sometimes live in inhuman conditions for months, in overcrowded camps. The decline in the influx of refugees into Belgium does not, therefore, indicate a solution to the problem, but rather a shift in it. With that action, Doctors Without Borders are calling the alarm bell. It also proves, according to Doctors Without Borders, that a deterrent policy that is being sold as a humanitarian solution encourages human suffering. What is your current position on the migration deal? Do you believe in its human nature? Do you support the EU's plans to enter into migration deals with African countries? Do you have an understanding and can you give an update on the situation in Greece and Turkey? Are you aware of the conditions that Doctors Without Borders are suing? What is your position on this? The emphasis of your policy is on keeping and sending back mainly Iraqi and Afghan refugees, for example, with return premiums for adult and minor refugees. Recently, the CGVS was instructed to update its security information in Baghdad. New guidelines have also been issued by UNHCR for the treatment of asylum seekers from Afghanistan. Will you take that into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u86	Mr President, I support the action plans, not only for the formal reason that Belgium has approved them, but also because they provide an effective response to a number of difficult problems. It is important to recognise that the two plans cover a large number of aspects, much more than the few aspects that sometimes appear in the news and are cited by certain NGOs. This applies both to the EU Action Plan with Turkey and to the Action Plan for Africa. That doesn't mean I'm blindly behind the plans. I recognise that there are many problems in the implementation, certainly for the EU Action Plan with Turkey. These problems are, of course, also growing enormously. For this reason, Belgium is a strong advocate for improving and strengthening implementation in many areas, both in Greece and in Turkey, with the implementation of the plan in line with EU regulation as a framework. At the same time, I would point out that critics often give a very selective picture of European policy. For example, when discussing the EU-Turkey deal, it is always forgotten that this is also linked to the solidarity mechanisms of relocation and resettlement. It is not for me to express my opinion on statements or the attitude of a private organisation that is acting as an interest organisation without having to accept responsibility. As I outlined earlier, the Member States have developed a broad global policy with the Commission, faced with a particularly complex and extremely problematic situation. Not to mention, last year, the number of asylum applications increased unexpectedly. Without strong policy adjustments at European level, the situation would have escalated further this year. Europe has always shown solidarity in the past and is still doing so, but of course our capacity is not unlimited either. The Member States, together with the Commission, have responded to this. This is a comprehensive plan with many aspects. This plan still needs to be worked out in many ways. As I said, I continue to work for critical issues such as human rights. The situation in Turkey is going completely in the wrong direction and I believe that the European Commission has taken a clear position over the past 24 hours. On Afghanistan and Iraq, the following. I am surprised that you have not yet understood that the CGVS is an independent body, just like the RV. As Secretary of State responsible for Asylum and Migration, I cannot give any instruction to the CGVS, just as I am not responsible for the content policy of the CGVS. The CGSS shall independently define its policies, in particular the assessment of the situation in the countries of origin. Any policy changes will be decided by the CGS, taking into account the situation in the countries of origin. It is therefore also up to the Commissioner-General to consider whether or not the policy should be adapted and updated, taking into account possible new UNHCR guidelines. I myself am responsible for the return policy. The fact that I am advocating the return of persons who do not need protection is not at all contrary to the policies of the CGVS. As you know, not all Afghans and Iraqis need a status of protection. The recognition rate for both countries is much lower than 100 %. That I encourage people, who can return, to return, I find only justified. This fits in with an integrated approach, strengthens the support of a policy that consists of different facets with both protection and return. It goes without saying that, as far as voluntary return is concerned, both people who have already received a negative decision and those who, disappointed by the fact that smugglers' false promises do not materialise, prefer to expand their future in their country of origin. Mrs. De Coninck, you say I'm sending these people back, but that's not right. I'm not sending anyone back to Iraq. There is no forced return to Iraq. Those people will return to Iraq voluntarily. That is a very important difference. Sending them back would mean putting people on a plane against their will, but that won't happen. Returning the verb does not apply to Iraq because there is no forced return to that country. They also take words in their mouths as hostages and send them back, and that is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, you're playing it on the letter. You do send letters in which you make it more or less clear to those involved that they would return the best. You say that Doctors Without Borders is a private organization that takes no responsibility. I really wouldn't say that about Doctors Without Borders, because the doctors, in particular, take a great deal of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u88	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u89	It was weirdly formulated. I said the following: 'It is not for me to express my opinion on statements or the attitude of a private organisation, without having to take responsibility.' I am not saying that they do not accept responsibility in the asylum crisis, but they must, of course, not take responsibility in solving the asylum crisis, which is at meta level, the political level that must provide solutions. I want to make it clear that I am not saying that Doctors Without Borders do not take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u90	You keep an eye on the details, so I can do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u91	Those are things that can get paws. As a doctor's son, I certainly respect Doctors Without Borders. They take responsibility, but not in the meta-story.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u92	Yes, we will not have a philosophical discussion about this now, because that would lead us too far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u93	The Royal Decree of 24 June 2004 specifies the conditions and modalities for the provision of material assistance to illegally staying families. It provides, inter alia, that a two-track guidance is to be set up, a guidance route that examines both the slope of a stay and the track of a return, and that the duration of such guidance depends on which slope is used. On 29 March 2013, the DVZ and Fedasil concluded a new agreement that significantly changes the supervision of families. Only the track of return is investigated and material assistance is limited in time, to a maximum of 30 days, unless families sign up for voluntary return. The modalities and conditions can only be laid down and amended by royal decree and not by agreement between the DVZ and Fedasil. Therefore, in its judgment of 23 April 2015, the Council of State annulled the point of the agreement entitled "the duration of the reception service'. How is the Royal Decree of 24 June 2004 implemented since the Council of State cancelled the agreement? How will it be implemented in the future? Is there going to be a new agreement between the DVZ and Fedasil? What different options are considered: reception and guidance by Fedasil, as was the case before, or care and guidance by the DVZ or a combination of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u94	Mrs De Coninck, the agreement itself was not cancelled, but some provisions. The cancelled provisions are no longer applicable, while the procedure has not changed much. I will explain this further in reply to your second and third questions. Families previously received at the open return centre in Holsbeek have been accommodated in residential units under OTC status since their closure in July 2015, the open return centre statute. Since July 2015 and until 30 June 2016, 33 families have been accommodated under the open return status in the housing units. A new agreement is not envisaged in the short term. The parts of articles deleted by the Council of State have been adapted to its wishes and are now being correctly applied. In the long term, consideration will be given to whether adjustments to the law and to the protocol agreement can improve their functioning. Since the destruction by the Council of State, there is no longer any time limit on reception. Nor is it linked to the will to return voluntarily. Of course, voluntary return is being worked on, but it is not true that reception will only be continued if those concerned opt for voluntary return. The shelter is provided by the Foreign Affairs Office in collaboration with Fedasil. The guidance is provided by the Foreign Affairs Office in collaboration with Fedasil. A return consultant from Fedasil comes to the site and there are at least two return talks with the Foreign Office and Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u95	Mr President, I would like to turn my last question on the agenda into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 12991 question is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees's 13090 was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u97	Mr Secretary of State, child marriages are a phenomenon that is huge worldwide. Every day 39 000 underage girls are forced to marry against their will. It rarely happens to us. Marriage to minors is, of course, also prohibited. That goes without saying. Nevertheless, the situation is more complex in itself. We see with the refugee crisis that we also have a number of cases of marriages with minors in our reception structures, namely 24 in April 2016. That is why I would like to ask a number of questions about the issue. After all, it is a problem that we really need to combat. Unicef's been doing that for years. I myself recently received a resolution in the OSCE. It was approved by the 57 Member States. That resolution states that we must pay effective attention to this new problem, which is now also taking place in many European countries, including our country. The problem is complex, because unfortunately we cannot only determine how we deal with it with our legislation. We must take into account IPR or private international law. Thus, if, for example, a marriage concluded in another country in accordance with the standards in force there is not contrary to international order, it must be closed. With us, the rule is that one has to be 18 years old. In Spain, however, this is still 16 years old. If in Spain a 16-year-old marries an 18-year-old and then they come to Belgium, then we must acknowledge and overwrite that marriage here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u98	That's in Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u99	In Spain the legal age is 16 years. I was even amazed when I found out that in Virginia, age has only been raised to 16 years. The age there was 13 years, if the girl was pregnant and got permission from her father. On that rule there were many abuses, such as cases of trafficking in human beings and paedophilia. For whoever married the pregnant girl, the problem was solved. He wasn't prosecuted. They married and divorced afterwards, with all the consequences for the girl. It's only now that in America, a country we think...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u100	It's in one state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u101	That is indeed in one state, Virginia. It is a problem which, unfortunately, is rather complex. We are now faced with it too. We cannot refuse every marriage I have already asked Minister None. Marriages can be perfectly legal under the applicable regulations of the country of origin, for example a marriage between a Syrian girl of 16 years old and a boy of 24 years old. If it turns out that there is consent and the marriage is valid, it seems that we must recognise that in our country too. It goes without saying that we do not recognise certain marriages, for example, when there is too much age difference, when there is no mutual consent when there is abuse. In short, when we can invoke the violation of international rules of public order. This is considered on a case-by-case basis. Mr Secretary of State, how do we deal specifically with this recent phenomenon in our centres? Is there a specific detection procedure with Fedasil, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless or DVD? There are also cases of couples who are officially married and others who are not, who have only entered into a religious marriage or are trying to conceal it. How does it happen right? What bodies are involved in this? What consequences does this have for the reception of the asylum seekers concerned, including for minors? Sometimes the partners are taken apart, rightly, sometimes not. Who's judging that exactly? Who is involved in that decision? Has Fedasil been observing a certain trend lately? Is that totally new? Did we get to deal with that before? I assume we're seeing a huge rise, because we also had a huge influx last year. What were the figures for the last five years? What are the main countries of origin with a child marriage problem? How do the asylum authorities work together with the civil status, which recognises or does not recognise foreign marriages? How's the cooperation with the Justice Department? I note that I have also put the question to Minister None, and to my surprise he has replied that there is actually no cooperation at the moment between the services, for example between Fedasil and the public prosecutor. If one is dealing with a 14-year-old child who is married to a 40-year-old, should someone immediately inform the court to turn that into a case? It is not only marriage that should not be recognised, because that is a matter for civil status. How's the parquet handling this? If there is no cooperation at the moment, how can we ensure that it will be able to deal with the problems of child marriages in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u102	(...) An exchange of information has been provided between the various asylum authorities, DVZ, CGVS, Fedasil, Voogdijdienst, to detect cases of child marriages as soon as possible. As soon as a married couple, one of the partners of whom is a minor, presents himself to the DVZ for registration, the DVZ informs the Dispatching of Fedasil service as well as the custody services in the case of a child marriage. If the couple is offered by the Dispatching or Fedasil department, the Dispatching department will take into account the information received from the DVZ for the allocation of a shelter. With regard to the reception by Fedasil, married couples of whom one of the partners is a minor are separated upon arrival and collected separately. If the minor partner is not accompanied by his or her own parents, he or she shall be considered as an unaccompanied minor and a guardian shall be appointed. If the minor already has a child with her husband and she is over 16 years of age, she will be taken in with her husband as a priority to the baby's interest in being with both parents. That's the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u103	What does one do if they don't have a child? When can they stay together?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u104	They will only be assigned a shelter together if she is 99 % a girl is more than 16 and there is a child of both partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u105	If there isn't a child, isn't there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u106	No. We have thought and met a great deal about this and these are the rules that I have imposed on the administration. One must draw a line somewhere. In the Netherlands it's just a njet all over the line. It's been in the law for about a year now that it can't, under no circumstances. The approach to this is almost an ethical discussion. If there is a child and it is in the best interest of the child that it is raised by both parents, then together from 16 years onwards can be accounted for. I'll read on. She will be cared for with her husband, as a priority should be given to the baby's interest in being with both parents. However, this will not be the case if there is a forced marriage. In any case, the social worker who succeeds the minor will try to determine whether there is a forced marriage. If this is the case, the file will be forwarded to the court. If the minor is under 16 years of age, the file will automatically be forwarded to the court. You say that there is no cooperation, but that redirection is automatic. Maybe Minister Geens doesn't know that, but the file is automatically forwarded to the courthouse when it comes to a child bride under the age of 16. Last year, about 20 couples with a minor bride arrived. These were Syrian couples, but also some Afghan and Iraqi couples. Although it is mostly underage girls, there may also be cases of married minor boys. In 2016, five child brides of Syrian nationality were offered to Fedasil's Dispatching Service: 17-year-old and 5-month-old, 17-year-old and 4-month-old, 17-year-old and 3-month-old, 15-year-old and 5-month-old and 14-year-old and 3-month-old. With regard to care, the social worker who succeeds the minor will try to check whether there is a forced marriage. If that is the case, the file will be forwarded to the court. If the minor is under 16 years of age, the file will automatically be forwarded to the court. DVZ and CGVS shall apply this procedure if they establish evidence of forced marriage during the hearing. A clear line has therefore been drawn in this respect. These are a total of 25 couples. If we don't give them shelter, they'll rent at the private market and they won't need shelter. There's nothing we can do about that. Then it'll be passed on to the public prosecutor, who'll have to conduct an investigation. We have had a number of situations where no shelter has been provided. Those people don't get shelter together, so they just don't want shelter. It'll be passed on to the parquet. It is all being spotted and one must keep an eye on what is going on there, otherwise it may be even worse. There are also couples who say that they are coming for asylum, but who never ask for shelter, precisely because they suspect that marriage is not allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u107	So you have 25 in the centers, but there would be more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u108	No, that's all I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u109	Are those who do not apply for shelter included in the figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u110	A total of 25 child brides have been reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u111	All in all, even those who don't ask for shelter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u112	Sometimes it's hard. Then a 17-year-old girl arrives and her partner is 19. There are laws and rules. For us, that's the same thing. A 17-year-old girl can only marry a 19-year-old boy on very strict terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u113	That's right. That is why I referred to the example of Spain. In the case of a 17-year-old girl and a 19-year-old boy, if it is very clear that there is no compulsion, that it is the choice of both partners and that the marriage is concluded as it should be, then we must, according to Minister Geens, also acknowledge that marriage. Then the marriage will also be recognized. That's what used to be done. We must at all costs avoid certain couples going into hiding. Even if they don't ask for shelter, we should always report the minors to the courthouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u114	Those who go into hiding often have very large age differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u115	Yeah, because they know it can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u116	Mrs Lanjri, at some point I think you questioned me about this. There was a hunger strike from a girl. Now, between what came out of the press and what really is in the file, there was, as often in foreign affairs, some tension. In that sense, this has been resolved in a very good, pragmatic way. They couldn't live together, but they could see each other a little more. Again, I have more and more confidence in the employees of Fedasil. They are brilliant in tackling such problems in a very social, educational and responsible way. These are, of course, deeply human issues. Sometimes a 15-year-old girl can fall in love with a 18-year-old boy. In that culture, it may be normal that they are already married and even have a child. That's all tough business. It could even be a 14-year-old. Sometimes it may be a forced marriage, but in the long run the people concerned perceive it as a normal marriage. Maybe they never knew anything but forced marriages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u117	Mr Secretary of State, have you asked for the figures for the past few years or do you see a tendency if you do not have the exact figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u118	2015 is of course an absolute record.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u119	No, the numbers of the child weddings. How's that been before?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u120	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u121	Then I will put a written question on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u122	Mr President, Secretary of State, asylum procedures for Afghans are systematically dealt with in Dutch. Indeed, the Office of Foreigners and CGRA, for the organization of their work, divide the countries of origin between linguistic roles. Francophones are instead assigned to countries of Francophone origin, for logistical reasons. The influx of Afghans into Belgian territory, including unaccompanied minors (MENA) (between 70% and 80% of MENA asylum applications are submitted by Afghans), means that Fedasil or Fedasil-funded centres hosting MENA in Flanders are complete while there are still free places in the centres in Wallonia. Fedasil is therefore directing Afghan MENA to reception centres in Wallonia. Once Annex 26 has been obtained at the Office of Foreigners, it is necessary for a guardian to be appointed in order for a MENA to continue its proceedings. The problem is that Afghan MENA hosted in Wallonia, but following a procedure in Dutch, do not find (or few) Dutch-speaking tutors. This obviously represents too much travel for these potential candidates and has the result that the Afghan MENA has been waiting for their guardian to be appointed for some more than a year. This completely freezes the progress of their asylum procedure. In recent weeks, it appears that Afghan MENA can follow a procedure in French. But the problem of those who already have their annex 26 in Dutch persists. Mr Secretary of State, are you considering asking CGRA and the Office of Foreigners to modify their methods so that a change in language during the proceedings can be made possible in the future? Indeed, there is a great risk that some MENA will reach their majority without any guardian being appointed to them. They will therefore not be able to assert their rights to asylum as minors. This would also save translation costs for the Tutelle Service, as the procedural documents are translated to francophone tutors at the expense of this service, which depends on the Justice FPS. Don't you see it as a way of generating financial resources for the public authorities in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the language of the proceedings is determined by the Office for Foreigners at the beginning of the asylum procedure, in accordance with Article 51/4 of the 1980 Act. While in the past all asylum applications of Afghan nationals were processed in Dutch with an interpreter, since the end of 2015, the Office, at the request of the Tutelle Service, has also assigned the French language role in a large number of cases, in particular those of unaccompanied minors. This measure provided the Tutelle Service with additional flexibility when appointing guardians for Afghan nationals. In this way, French-speaking guardians of Afghan minors can also be designated for asylum applications under the French role. The Agency therefore granted an application from the Tutelle Service. Another problem is the change in language roles. The language shall be determined at the beginning of the procedure. From this moment on, the documents are drawn up in the language of the proceedings. Generally, the language is not changed during the proceedings, precisely in order to guarantee the unity of the language of the proceedings. For this reason, it is not appropriate to change the linguistic role in the files. The language of the proceedings is known from the beginning of the proceedings. It can therefore be expected that it is a guardian who understands the language of the proceedings that is designated and that there is no need to provide for the translation of documents for him or her and therefore there is no need to incur costs to that effect either. In addition, it must be borne in mind that a change in language role will entail additional costs for the Agency and CGRA, with the documents in the file to be translated into the new language. It is therefore not appropriate to change the language of the proceedings. In addition, the Agency has already granted the Tutelle Service's request to assign the French language role to new asylum applications. This measure provides the Tutelle Service with more margin when appointing guardians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u124	Mr Secretary of State, the problem of these unaccompanied minors who are fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years old and who can travel home to escape the war is that they follow extremely heavy procedures to learn Dutch. This can be justified for obvious organizational reasons. Nevertheless, the authority then sends them to another linguistic region, Wallonia, where they find less easily a tutor who speaks Dutch. I understand that you do not intend to change this rule, which prohibits the change of language role. It's too bad for two reasons. First of all, from a human point of view, because of the absence of a guardian, these persons will not be able, at the age of majority, to complete a very favourable procedure, which is that of unaccompanied minors. It's very annoying. From a logistical point of view, translation costs could be avoided if, in the middle of the proceedings, the language could be changed. This would allow the authorities and the unaccompanied minor to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic481x.u125	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your good cooperation over the past year, and I look forward to seeing you again after the recess to work together in the same way.
