ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u1	Minister, don't think I'm a monomaniac! It is true that I have often asked you about this issue because, beyond my principal Liège character, I have the feeling with others that we are missing something if we do not focus more on the future of the Forensic Institute of Liège. In one of my last questions about a month earlier, you said that a consultation meeting would be held not only on the Forensic Institute but more generally on all missions, on the pricing of missions, particularly requested by the courts, DNA analyses or any other consideration. I come back to you to see if this meeting, scheduled to take place on 9 June at the office of Justice, has taken place knowing that your department has been affected by political developments lately. You announced that the DNA labs would be attached to this meeting. Were they? Which laboratories were invited? Which laboratories were they represented? What conclusions do you draw from this meeting? Will the angle of view on DNA analyses be maintained (it is known that this depends on European legislation in particular) or, on the contrary, adapted? The Liegeian DNA laboratory and more broadly the Forensic Institute, wish to continue to carry out their missions. In a final reply from you, you pointed out that they did not want to. It's not a matter of will and I told you, but the loss of profits for the DNA part is highly detrimental to this laboratory and to the Forensic Institute as a whole. I once again stress the highly important aspect of this forensic institute of the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u2	Minister, the questions I am asking concern the same subject. What are the conclusions of the evaluation of the new rates applied to DNA analyses? How do you assess the situation of the forensic institutes in our country? How is this situation changing? What is the result of your contacts with these medical-legal institutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u3	Colleagues, with reference to my answers of 17 February and 11 May, I can confirm that this meeting took place on 9 June. All the laboratories were represented, with the exception of the BIO.be laboratory which terminated its activities and Genex which did not reintroduce an application for its 2015 accreditation. The meeting was held in a constructive spirit. It was found that the tariff applied is not always sufficient for the volume processed by each laboratory separately. There is therefore a need for collaboration and market specialization. Several laboratories are looking for a solution, either by pooling the technology part, or by seeking collaborations between laboratories while maintaining intellectual work at the university. I understand that this is not an easy operation. The question of the number of analyses submitted to each laboratory has been raised and I can only confirm that the King's prosecutors, substitutes or investigating judges are the only ones entitled to request the work of the laboratories in the cases they have to deal with. It is not within our competence to designate the laboratories requisitioned by these magistrates. Four operational conclusions were identified: - the indexation of tariffs will be published in September; - a duplication of tariffs will be accepted by means of a new requirement in the event that a foreign application would require a review of the fact that there are too few available DNA markers; - a reassessment of all tariffs is under way. This is the case, for example, with forensic doctors; - the universities will make an appointment with the administration to deal with any arrears. In view of this restructuring, which is still under way, a reassessment will be carried out at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. Are the four conclusions that are the result of this consultation meeting such as to ensure a certain sustainability at the Institut médicale juridique ligeois? I can't say it at this point and very clever who could! In any case, I see an awareness of the non-practicality of certain factors in terms of their pricing. As regards indexation, the re-evaluation of certain tariffs, etc., I welcome these aspects. I do not know the consequences of this on the Belgian Forensic Institute and cannot, by extension, evaluate them. I will contact his director, Mr. Boxho, so that he can shed some useful light on the conclusions and consider whether the decisions are likely to give him a breath of oxygen in view of the difficulties he is encountering. Of course, we will come back before the end of the year, as you announced an evaluation by the end of 2016, to see how these conclusions are realized and to observe whether, in fact, this brings some oxygen to the Institut médicale juridique ligeois. Be aware that we will remain extremely vigilant in this matter without being monomaniac.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u5	Minister, thank you for the information provided. They are similar to the management of a whole series of other files. It is the meeting of the actors that sometimes allows to remove ambiguities or, in any case, to give a clear line in relation to your policy. This reply will be transmitted to whom also by right. We will come back in due course, as assessments are expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u6	Minister, I've been asking you about the judicial landscape in Tournaise for months without an answer. Indeed, following the announcement of your Masterplan courthouse, there is a very clear concern of the judicial world and of the citizens of my region that local judicial activity is weakened or even transferred elsewhere. In Picardy Wallonia, both lawyers and magistrates, police and citizens agree that the move of the Turnish justice system to Mons is not possible. Police officers, lawyers, as well as litigants, will have to make much longer trips, which is a waste of time, energy and considerable money. Moreover, what would happen to the present courthouse, which is a highly symbolic place in the city of the five bell towers? On the other hand, the entire judicial world in Tournai has agreed on the maintenance of a unique place to deliver justice in the best conditions for all in Tournai. They also advocate, and I had already told you in a previous question, the redevelopment of the current courthouse in Tournai. This solution is, economically speaking, the most relevant option. In addition to the questions I am asking you, I am also asking the minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, Jan Jambon, to know the future reserved for the Lot du Luchet d'Antoing, about which the former ministers De Clerck and Reynders had announced the reception of a new courthouse for 2018. With vague and unconvincing answers from you, but also from your colleague, Jan Jambon, I admit that I find it difficult to understand the real intentions of this government. So let me ask you, Minister, the following questions. Can you express yourself clearly about the future of the justice system in Tournaise in order to reassure the various actors involved in my region? Through your Masterplan, are we moving to Tournai towards a redevelopment of the current courthouse that would allow the various courts to be accommodated in one place or are we moving towards the construction of a new courthouse at the Luchet d'Antoing? Is there a risk that the judicial activity will disappear from Tournai to Mons or can you at least exclude this last option?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u7	Mr Delannois, I refer you to the answer that I have already made several times and which remains applicable. I have indeed already referred within this committee to the Masterplan on judicial buildings which is being drawn up. As this work has not yet been completed, I can only mention it again for the time being. I am convinced that it is better to conduct this difficult exercise in a thorough manner than to do so in haste with a result of lower quality. Once this plan is ready, each relevant actor will be informed in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I know that, with the history of prisons, I have discovered a very patient minister. I am also very patient and I will return systematically, I can assure you. Take thirty seconds in my place, and then I'll take the burgundy cap as Tournai. At one point, a whole series of ministers come back for almost a new stone on land that belongs to National Defence. National Defence sells this land to the Régie des Bâtiments, normally to make it a courthouse. When I ask you if we're doing a courthouse on this ground, you don't answer me. If that were yes, I think you'd say, "Yes, we'll do it." When I ask the man who bought the land, he tells me that he doesn't know exactly what he's going to do with it. We are still, it seems to me, in the country of surrealism. But the only thing I ask you, at least, and I will continue to hope for, is that, indeed, there is always a place of justice in Tournai. I'd like to hear that we're not going back to a new courthouse at Antoing's Luchet. I'll hear it again. On the other hand, what I would like to hear above all is that there will always be one tomorrow and that it is, I hope, in the reorganisation of the current one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u9	Mr Minister, I do not know how many episodes of prisons this is, but I have a very short question today. The strike's been going on for a couple of weeks. There is an agreement with four out of six trade unions, but this was not accepted in some prisons. On a regular basis, we get reports that more and more French-speaking prisons are stopping the strike and that the guards are going back to work. Minister, what is the state of play? Where else is there going to be a stop and where isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u10	Mrs De Wit, at the moment the strike has ended almost everywhere and the work is being progressively re-enacted. Only the staff of the Saint-Hubert prison have not yet voted in favour of a reintegration of the work. However, that establishment is already operating autonomously again. In a number of penitentiary establishments, the strike officially ends today, Wednesday, June 22nd. This means that after that date the trade union strikers will no longer pay a strike fee. In Lantin the work will be officially resumed next Saturday, after yesterday's vote. In most other cases the vote was just for the weekend and it was decided to take it back from Monday 20 June. However, colleagues have already been allowed to resume work on weekends. All establishments now appear to be structurally exceeding their minimum occupancy threshold. So there has been no need for police support or military support in the penitentiary facilities since today. I would once again like to express my thanks for the professional support provided by the police, the defence and the fire department, as well as for the support provided by the civil protection volunteers and the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u11	Minister, I am delighted that the situation in prisons is gradually returning to normal. I can only endorse your words of thanks to the people who have kept things right. I am thinking of all the willing workers, the police and the military, as well as the prison director and people who are not security officers, who have often provided a minimum service in prisons with a small core and have done a lot of work. I think we have paid too little attention to this, but it may be said. So I would very much like to endorse your words of thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the judicial authorities in Mons organized a grunt action on 7 June last at the courts to denounce their working conditions. At the heart of their demands are two major problems: the shortage of staff and the deplorable state of the courthouse on Nimy Street in Mons. Over the past several years, executive laws have not been respected, and many jurisdictions in the country have been understaffed. This is particularly the case in Mons: if a magistrate falls ill, there is no one to replace him and it is impossible, today, to add an additional workload to the magistrates present. The other complaint concerns the deplorable state of the Mons Court of First Instance located at the top of Nimy Street. Its gross oldness poses problems in terms of equipment, safety, safety and accessibility. I think I mentioned this to you a few months ago in a previous oral question here in the House. I mentioned the stability of the building, which is no longer guaranteed in certain places. Caryatids threaten to collapse in the no-lost room. There are cracks, water infiltrations, defracated paints, broken or completely unusable luminaires. Toilets, both staff and public, are virtually unusable. Finally, another more technical aberration is noted by the Prosecutor of the King of Mons and concerns computer science: 17 different programmes dating from several decades are used and the systems used by the police and prosecution services are not compatible. A very worrying situation, Minister, from which my questions arise. What concrete action plan are you working on to address the grievances of the country's judicial authorities, particularly in Mons? What answers can you give to the authorities in Montoise who regret a shortage of staff and are forced to work with obsolete computer equipment? As regards the maintenance of the courthouse in Mons and the planned investments for this purpose, what is the status of the study launched last year with the Régie des Bâtiments, which you mentioned in one of our previous exchanges? Have any measures been taken to renovate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u13	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, at present in the Hainaut Court of First Instance, there are 89 judges, or 92 per cent, within a framework of 97. A vacant seat was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 2 February 2016. No candidate came forward. Two vacant places were again published on 25 April 2016. The procedure is expected to be completed by the end of 2016. Four magistrates will retire in 2016 and three in 2017. At the Mons Public Prosecutor's Office, the number of judges is 34 out of 44, or 77 per cent. A magistrate will take his pension in 2016. Three vacant places were published in the Moniteur belge on 2 February 2016; no candidates were nominated and therefore no appointments could be made. A new vacant seat was published on 25 April 2016. The procedure is expected to be completed by the end of 2016. Three vacant places were also published in the Belgian Monitor on 13 June 2016. The procedure is scheduled to be completed in early 2017. Despite numerous publications of vacant places, it must be noted that few candidates appear. And I don't think I can do much. As far as the condition of the building is concerned, I can confirm that my services are aware of this. For example, the Infrastructure Branch of the FPS Justice is working with the Régie des Bâtiments to find long-term solutions. In addition, some renovations are already under way. This is particularly the case for the renovation of the attic. The second phase of renovation is expected to begin shortly. It is expected to end by the end of the year. Other work needs to be done as a matter of priority: the installation of a PMR ramp (person with reduced mobility), the upgrading of the elevator, the repair of caryatides and cell and sanitary facilities. Pre-meetings have already taken place on site to determine an action plan to begin by the end of the year with a study of in-depth renovations. However, for further information on the work envisaged by the Régie and their planning, I would refer you to my colleague from the Interior who has the Régie des Bâtiments in her responsibilities. I would also like to point out that, after an initial analysis of the state of the caryatids, it is not a matter of concern for the structural stability of the building and for the extension of its roof. However, in order to be assured, the Régie has commissioned a new stability study for the building, which is expected to arrive in the coming weeks. In the meantime and in order to prevent the risk of falling the trimming materials, the Régie will place a safety net. As far as computerisation is concerned, I refer first of all to the general strategy that I have already outlined in this committee. As for the courts of first instance, the following projects are under way. The transition from the courts of first instance to Mach: the pilot sites of Turnhout, Louvain and Charleroi have started. After all youth diseases have been resolved, deployment to all other courts of first instance will be completed in 2016 and 2017. This morning, the royal decrees implementing article 33 and article 32ter, as amended, of the Judicial Code were published in the Belgian Moniteur. This means starting e-Deposit (filing conclusions) and e-Box (boxing electronic letters). It will now be possible to file electronically with the Court of Appeal, the Labour Court and the Commercial Courts. The e-Box project starts in the justices de paix and in the Moniteur belge. Thereafter, its deployment will continue. At the present time, we are examining whether the deployment of VAJA, the database of judgments and judgments, is not feasible, first of all, at the level of the courts of first instance rather than at the level of the commercial courts, so that this application generates a significant reduction in the workload in the largest courts, particularly those of first instance. This application makes it possible to make copies of judgements in an automated manner and will eventually send them electronically to lawyers. These two elements significantly reduce the workload. This assumes that all lawyers have an e-Box. The protocol for active cooperation that I signed this morning with, in particular, the national bar associations will also mean that the bar associations will actively participate in the deployment of e-Boxes to lawyers. The first shipment test should be possible at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u14	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. However, do you not believe that there is a correlation between the absence of applications and the condition of the buildings? Indeed, as far as I am concerned, I would not very much like to work there, given the current state of the courthouse. Even if this is a boutade, there are still questions about the absence of applications. On the other hand, as far as the building is concerned, it is clear that we are going from study to study. A few months ago, you told me about studies. But basic work, such as simply repainting, is not done. The same applies to the compliance of electrical installations. In my view, a series of actions could be carried out without a thorough prior study. I therefore invite you to review the situation somewhat because the grunt is rising among the Montois staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u15	Mr President, Minister,... [[Not containing micro]] Those concerned were allowed to take penitentiary leave because the circumstances were such that it was no longer acceptable from a humanitarian point of view. First a two-week penitentiary leave was granted, which was exceptionally extended by one week. How many prisoners are using them at the moment? Given the circumstances in the prisons, is there perhaps an additional week added to that? I suspect that this is probably not the case, because the strikes are over. How many inmates are still using the exceptionally penitentiary leave for the strikes today? Is the penitentiary leave extended by a fourth week or not? If so, how many prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u16	Mr President, there are currently no more prisoners using the exceptional penitentiary leave. Last week, I decided not to extend the leave by a fourth week, given that in virtually all prisons the staff went back to work and the normal regime could be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u17	That is a logical answer, Minister. That's what I expected. I do have the next thought. It must be nice for prisoners to be allowed a longer period of time outside, but from a human point of view it is certainly not obvious for those concerned to have to go back to prison after three weeks, which is different than after a weekend, for example, not knowing what state the prison is in at that time. Anyway, I note that there are no more inmates on penitentiary leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u18	Minister, the Act of 27 December 2012 on various provisions in the field of justice has expanded the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the sentencing court. From now on, he may make a provisional arrest when he deems it necessary, pursuant to article 70 of the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty. The Public Prosecutor's Office responsible for monitoring and monitoring the execution of the sentence may, therefore, not only apply to the court for the enforcement of sentences in the event of non-compliance with the conditions imposed, but may also provisionally order the arrest of the person concerned. If the person concerned is not found, he/she must be registered in the National and General Data Bank for the purpose of arrest. This alert is essential for him to be arrested on Belgian territory, for example following a police check. Minister, how is a provisional arrest order issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the sentencing court sent to the police? Should this order be automatically reported within the National and General Data Bank? If this alert is not automatic, under what circumstances should it be made? Who is in charge and within what time frame? What percentage of the provisional arrest orders issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office actually lead to a provisional arrest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u19	Mr President, an interim arrest order is a means of coercion of the Ministry to bring back to prison the convicted person who violates the conditions and/or poses a threat to physical or mental integrity during the period of the execution procedure, e.g. an electronic surveillance or a conditional release. The objective is the revocation of the modality. A provisional arrest order is then sent to the police by fax, e-mail or carrier. In most cases, the convicted person is already physically arrested by the police on the basis of the provisional arrest. In this case, the alert is no longer necessary. If the person has not yet been arrested, the order is then reported in the General National Data Bank. The DJO-VSS (National Judicial Reports of the Federal Police) is responsible for drafting this report within seven working days of the date of the application for inclusion. In urgent and serious cases, it can also be prepared immediately. Neither the police nor the judiciary have figures in this regard. As I have already indicated, provisional arrest orders are immediately executed when the convicted person is already in the hands of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u20	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u21	Mr Minister, COIV manages the funds and assets that are seized or forfeited. The COIV has been a worry child for years. Just think about the diamond slider, but that's from before your time as Minister of Justice. Turns out everything gets thrown in a bin. Moreover, the service has a shortage of staff and lacks modern resources to ensure the efficient management of all funds and goods. For this reason, particular attention was paid in the coalition agreement to the reform of COIV. The coalition agreement states that the Minister of Justice will pay attention to the improvement of the efficiency of the Central Commission for seizures and the Declaration in cooperation with the FPS Finance. The director of COIV has provided you with a list of 27 reforms. We were allowed to hear that through the media. Especially the title of most articles was striking: "Give houses of criminals to OCMW's and social organisations" Immediately a number of proposals for reform could be looked at. It is proposed that houses, offices and other property seized should be used by an OCMW or other recognised social organisations, as is also given to police cars. Another proposal is to stop paying interest to suspects who get their confiscated money back. This would apparently save EUR 1.4 million, which could then be used to increase staff. Furthermore, the police should no longer deliver cash to the COIV, but only work by bank transfer. Shares, bonds and other securities and titles would immediately be converted into money to reduce depreciation and high management costs. The COIV also wants an asset recovery department to actively track down the loot of convicted criminals. Last but not least, the COIV no longer wants to be under your authority, but under that of the College of Attorney General. Minister, only a few of these 27 proposals have been announced. Can you deliver the other COIV proposals to Parliament? How do you assess the proposed reforms already published in the press? After all, these are important reforms. What further steps will you take now that the reform proposals are before you? In order to assess the staff shortage, I would like to hear how many people are employed at COIV today. How high are the accounts currently managed by COIV? After all, I suspect there are a lot of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u22	Mrs De Wit, you will forgive me for answering you in the two national languages, because that question was put by three Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u23	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u24	On 14 June 2016, the Director of the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation sent me a letter containing a proposal to recast the Act of 26 March 2003 establishing a central body for seizure and confiscation and providing for the constant-value management of seized property and the enforcement of certain property sanctions. This proposal follows several months of work carried out on the Central Organ's initiative jointly with my Strategic Cell and the FPS Justice Legislation DG. This work was not yet finalized. I am surprised that the press has been informed at the same time of the key elements of this project, I repeat, of a reform that has not been finalised, which does not seem to me to be the most appropriate and appropriate method of work. First of all, it seems to me necessary to examine the various aspects of the proposed measures before considering the follow-up to be given to this project in consultation with the departments concerned. Until further notice, the proposal is an exercise that mainly reflects the ideas of COIV. I have not yet endorsed the 25 proposals. So there aren't 27 of them. The proposals or ideas referred to in the press have been incorporated into the articles of the draft law proposal. These are important changes in relation to the former COIV Act. A significant number of changes are rather technical, a number of other changes require a political choice of policy. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to indicate which ideas I can make to mine and which I do not. Some may have far-reaching consequences and therefore deserve a thorough reflection. I also expect the advice of the College of Attorneys General. The list of proposals was discussed a few weeks ago in the Ecofin Corruption expertise network of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I do not rule out the need for other opinions. In addition, consultations should be conducted with, inter alia, the Internal FPS, as the working methods of the police, both local and federal, could be significantly affected by the reform. At present, 25 COIV staff, including two half-time staff and two part-time staff, are employed at 80%. Those staff shall be supplemented by 7 staff with a temporary contract ending at the end of December 2016. In addition, there are 4 FPS Finance officials and 2 police officers. In the end, there are two prosecutors, the director and a French-speaking liaison magistrate. The vacancy for the Dutch-language liaison magistraat was published on 10 June 2016. The COIV currently manages the equivalent of 520 million euros. That money is in accounts with a private bank and with the Deposit and Settlement Cash. In addition, under its special management, COIV manages at least 140 million euros of gold, diamonds and jewellery, which are stored in vaults in three cities spread over three parts of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As I said in my introduction, if you ever have to ask for the diamonds back, it will still be a whole puzzle to know what belongs to who, because the accounting is not at all optimal for the time being. Mrs Turtelboom had already announced that she would tackle this problem. I am very curious about the forthcoming reform. I note that you do not want to make too many statements about this, because you consider that a thorough reflection is necessary. I agree with you on that point, but I suspect you already have an idea about it, as the reform is announced in the government agreement. You will have to pay attention to it and ensure that COIV becomes an efficient body. After all, of course, it treats a lot of money. So it's not unimportant. I'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u26	Minister, on June 7, the country's magistrates took action to express their dissatisfaction with the blatant lack of resources devoted to justice. I went to the Palace of Justice in Namur, to hear the statements of the various magistrates and many things struck me, even though I knew them, especially one in Namur, there has been no tax judge for many months; in Hainaut, only one magistrate deals with tax cases while the framework provides for four. The vacant places have not been published in a long time. These different situations are totally incomprehensible as we know the importance of the fight against tax fraud. This needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency. This has an impact on public finances. You are looking for ways for justice; it may be a way to get it. Minister, can you tell me, for each prosecutor's office, the number of tax magistrates provided for in the framework and the number of tax magistrates actually active? In the event of the absence of a tax judge in the framework, the date of the start of the vacancy? What consequences does this lack of human resources entail in the processing of tax cases? What are the average time frames for their treatment? To which magistrate are they entrusted? With what consequence on the quality of the judgements rendered? What actions will you take to complete the framework? How long do you intend to achieve this goal? As part of the engagement of new tax judges and the secondment of FPS Finance staff to support them, what training will be provided to enable them to become fully and rapidly operational? Indeed, beyond the number, the quality of the action is important in these delicate matters for which any procedural error may lead to nullity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u27	The filling of tax substitutes in the public prosecutor's offices is currently, by jurisdiction, as follows: Antwerp: 3 out of 4; Brussels Dutch-speaking: 2 out of 2; Brussels French-speaking: 3 out of 3; Ghent: 4 out of 4; Liège: 2 out of 4; Mons: 1 out of 4 or in total, 15 out of 21. Let me point out that I have answered a question in plenary in the past. On that occasion, I made it clear that this situation was not due to unpublished vacancies but to the absence of candidates. Budgetary control provides for 15 additional tax substitutes: 6 to fill the current framework of 15 out of 21 and 9 on the basis of an extension of the framework via the programme law which was voted in committee yesterday. Article 194 of the Judicial Code stipulates that the function of substitute prosecutor of the King specializing in tax matters is assigned to a candidate who justifies this specialized knowledge by his or her qualifications or by his or her experience. These titles and experiences are reviewed by the Board of Appointment and Designation of the Supreme Council of Justice. It should also be noted that the Public Prosecutor's Office is one and indivisible. Therefore, even if the Judicial Code re-institutes a specific function as a tax substitute, each substitute may take public action for an offence under tax laws and regulations. My administration has submitted to the Finance Inspectorate a file for the publication of six vacant tax substitutes, in order to be able to complete 100% of the planned 21 framework. These places will be included in the next publication of the vacant places in the judiciary. In view of the six-month statutory time limits in the procedures for appointing a magistrate, the intention is to be able to fill these places by 1 January 2017. As part of the recruitment and training of new judges specializing in tax matters, the IFJ (Institute for Judicial Training) has provided several specific training courses on tax law in its training catalogue. These include in-depth training for judges, both at the headquarters and the prosecutor's office, as well as for judicial trainees, who deal with or will deal with tax cases. The objectives of these training courses are to set out the essential points of the law, to present the points for discussion, in order to update the participants' existing knowledge in the form of presentations and to discuss possible solutions to technical and practical problems through interaction between the participants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u28	Is this a problem of lack of candidates or of places that are not open? It comes to my mind that it is the opening of the squares that is involved. You are telling me that this will be resolved in such a way that the framework is complete on 1 January 2017. However, more than half of the tax substitutes are lacking in the areas of Liège and Charleroi. When we talk about two places or even one out of four which is provided, this seems to me problematic in the context of tax justice. You tell us that justice is one and indivisible and that every substitute must be able to issue a judgment in tax matters, but it is nevertheless an eminently complex and specific subject that requires a specialization of knowledge and some initial training coupled with continuous training. This is a real concern even if it is perhaps in the process of being resolved. I note well the unanimous vote on part of the programme law aimed at strengthening the tax justice services through the reinforcement of FPS Finance officers. I will come back regularly to you to ensure that the commitments you have just made are followed up because tax justice is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u29	Minister, this issue remains in the same area. In the context of the first committee of inquiry into major tax fraud, our Parliament has adopted the "una via" law, I do not teach you anything, which allows for a more efficient distribution of tax fraud cases between the public prosecutor's offices and the tax administration, avoids walking on your feet, losing time or making procedural mistakes. "Una via" was attacked and the Constitutional Court annulled its articles 3, 4 and 14 following an application by the ASBL League of Taxpayers. This has a very heavy daily impact on the fight against tax fraud and requires the rapid adoption of a restorative law, in dialogue between the FPS Justice and the FPS Finances. I have tabled the same issue for the attention of the Minister of Finance, who is also concerned. Minister, is the government's intention, indeed, to propose a law that is correct in response to the opinion of the Constitutional Court that I have just set out? Who was responsible for writing it: Justice or Finance? Was the working group that had drafted the original text associated with this correction? Are tax judges, who have experience in using this "una via" law, associated? What is the status of this text? Is there an obstacle to its rapid adoption? What kind? How soon can we vote on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u30	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the government intends indeed to make a reparation to the law of 20 September 2012, in short the legislation "una via". The recently approved comprehensive security framework note also indicates in the chapter on combating tax fraud that the necessary legislative initiatives in this area will be considered. During budgetary control 2016, the Ministers of Justice and Finance agreed that a task force would be created to improve cooperation between the two departments with a view to an efficient approach to tax evasion. In agreement with the Minister of Finance, I decided to have the repair of the "una via" legislation also examined by this task force. A first step towards better cooperation has already been taken on 10 May this year, namely the joint organisation of a seminar by the Special Inspectorate of Taxes and the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to improve collaboration. This week, Finance will contact the Supreme Council of Finance to solicit its collaboration with this task force. I myself ask for the cooperation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, more specifically the ECOFIN network of expertise, in order to strengthen this task force. I assume that the Public Prosecutor's Office ensures continuity of expertise with the authors of the original "una via" legislation. Tax judges do not provisionally have a direct role to play as authors and it seems to me desirable that the opinion of the College of Courts and Courts be sought since the "una via" regulation has an impact on their functioning. The first meeting of the Task Force is scheduled before the summer holidays. There is no obstacle to reparation legislation, but I think it is important to develop a practical solution in association with the actors on the ground who have to implement this law. If the task force does good work, it must be possible to submit a proposal for a text to the legislative chambers before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u31	Minister, quality and speed must be combined. I think it is a good thing that there is a stronger and more structural collaboration between Finance and Justice. I heard about this seminar. Perhaps you should publish the work because the agenda seemed very interesting. In this case, on "una via", we look forward to this correcting law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u32	Question No 12522 by Mrs Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u33	Mr Minister, at the beginning of May, the House passed a bill strengthening the prerogatives of the Belgian State in the fight against illicit trafficking in works of art. At the same time, your colleague, the Minister of the Interior Jambon has decided to remove the Art and Antiquities cell from the Federal Police. Questioned on 11 May 2016 by myself and other deputies, the Minister of the Interior told us that "the illegal trade in art and antiquities is not included as a phenomenon in the framework note "integral security", nor in the draft national security plan 2016-2019. The Federal Police decided to abolish this cell and to use this capacity for other phenomena." Minister, how do you explain this response from the Minister of the Interior, when we know that trafficking in cultural works is, according to Interpol, the third most important illegal traffic with amounts of around $6 billion a year? Moreover, it is known that terrorist groups such as Daesh are financing themselves, inter alia, through the illicit sale of cultural property, and that Belgium is a hub of this illegal trafficking. Have you had any discussions with your colleague, Minister Jambon? How do you intend to enforce the law that you have enacted and that was passed by this House in May?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u34	My colleague Jambon answered a number of questions on this matter in the Committee on the Interior on 11 May. I am not going to take up the various elements of his answer. I therefore refer you, as far as is necessary, to the minutes of this committee meeting. My colleague has made it clear that the fight against terrorism and underlying financing remains a priority. He also outlined the role that the leadership of international police cooperation must play and how this will be done in a decentralized manner. Benchmark investigators for artistic crime must play an important role in this context. We have been able to examine extensively in the Chamber the Act of 4 May 2016, amending the Act of 28 October 1996 on the restitution of cultural property unlawfully removed from the territory of certain foreign States. As you know, this law implements the European Directive 2014/60. It entered into force on 2 June 2016 and does not require a formal implementing order. A royal order could be made to implement the inserted article 13/1 in order to designate other authorities that use IMI for the purposes of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u35	Minister, just as when we had this discussion with your colleague Minister Jambon, it seems difficult to understand how we will be able to effectively combat this phenomenon in a process of decentralization. I remain sceptical that decentralizing this policy can effectively combat international traffic such as this. Perhaps there are some relevant elements that are beyond my control. If that is the case, I am asking for it, as I have already told your colleague. But at this stage, I am not convinced of the effectiveness of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u36	I give the floor to Mr Calomne for his question No. 12333 on the unconstitutionality of the Criminal Transaction Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u37	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have just read the fact that perhaps the minister has already answered this question. Unless there are additional elements, I turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u38	Mr President, Minister, according to news reports in the press, four to five drones have been intercepted at the prison in Andenne since the start of the strike movement launched by the agents. It would appear that the aim of these overflights was to supply some detainees with illicit products, in particular narcotics. These facts are worrying and pose a new challenge to our prisons in terms of securing their facilities. Indeed, one could imagine that a drone would one day drop weapons over one of them. Fortunately, the prison administration seems to be aware of the problem and is currently working on a plan to deal with it. Several options would be considered, such as the installation of nets over the inner enclosure, the destruction of drones or the taking of control of their pilotage. Minister, can you confirm the information in the press, both about the overflight of the prison in Andenne by drones and about the current development of a plan to solve this problem? Is this phenomenon observable in all prisons in the country? How many drones have been intercepted or spotted near our prisons in the last three years? Which prisons were involved? Finally, can you tell us when the above-mentioned plan will be ready and, therefore, give us its main lines of action? What concrete measures are envisaged to address this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u39	Mr President, Mr Calomne, a drone was actually found in one of the preaux of the Andenne settlement. He was handed over to the police. He was carrying a small amount of drugs and was unable to reach his recipient. On the other hand, another night, the police checked a vehicle that was travelling in the vicinity of the same establishment. Two drones were found on board. These are the only known cases for all prisons in the country. With regard to the anti-drones plan, we are still looking at different possibilities. It is therefore premature to communicate on this subject, but we will do so as soon as it is finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. When the plan is communicated, we will return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u41	Minister, it is now possible for owners of an increasing number of electronic devices such as smartphones and laptops to geo-localize these devices on an ongoing basis. For example, this option can be used in case of loss or theft. In this regard, it appears that the police forces cannot easily use the information provided by the owners to trace their stolen aircraft, owing to the cumbersome procedures. Indeed, provided that the geolocation is sufficiently precise, a warrant issued by a magistrate is necessary to try to recover the stolen objects in the place where they are located. De facto, the time required for such operations and procedures often discourages investigators, as well as victims. This situation raises questions. It is regrettable that, despite the existence of technology to facilitate the tracing of stolen objects, it cannot be fully used by law enforcement. So, Minister, my questions will be relatively brief. Do you intend to allow the police forces to use this technology to the full in order to find stolen objects, possibly by adapting the legislation? If so, what measures do you prefer? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u42	Mr Calomne, the activation of geolocation can in fact allow to locate objects, such as smartphones, which have been stolen and which have not been disabled. The question is to determine where geolocation points and whether or not the owner or occupant agrees to the police entering the site. If the occupier refuses to have the police examine the place and if the place, such as a house, is a place that can only be explored by the police on the basis of a search decided by the investigating judge, it will be necessary to go through this search procedure. I understand that this may seem frustrating when geolocation points clearly to a specific location, but it must also be understood that imposing the entry of the police into a non-public place is an act that violates individual freedoms and that judicial control is therefore necessary. Moreover, it is possible that the person in possession of the smartphone is a bona fide third party who bought the used smartphone. The fact that geolocation points to its home cannot justify the possibility for the police to enter the house without a warrant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u44	The prison strike is coming to an end. In any case, on Monday, the last agents announced that they would gradually return to work. After six weeks of absence, this return to bars is likely to be complicated for both strikers and non-gravists. Indeed, many people have been injured by the prison strike, and it is now necessary to manage the post-strike to avoid exclusion, harassment and potential violence. The Central Prison Supervision Board therefore calls for practical measures to be taken to find a certain well-being in human relations as soon as possible. For inmates, the rapid establishment of speech and writing spaces is necessary so that each of them (as well as their family members) can express his or her experience. The legal aid service probably has a role to play in this area, but it must be given the means to do so! The Board also requests that each guardian be heard by a psychologist or occupational physician. He adds, I quote, "if the state labour medical service is unable to intervene, it is necessary to allow a specialized LSA to receive supervisors who would request it". Minister, what do you think of the recommendations of the Central Supervisory Board in order to accompany the resumption of work in prisons? What do you intend to do to facilitate their implementation? Have you ever heard of the way in which the recent resumption of work in the prisons concerned is taking place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u45	The care of well-being in human relations is indeed crucial in our prisons. For the establishment of speaking or writing spaces for inmates and their families, community services could work in collaboration with local directorates. In order to allow each officer to be heard by a psychologist or occupational doctor or possibly by using an LBSO, I would point out that, in each institution, there is a team called a "local support team" to which officers can appeal when they have been ill-treated at their place of work. It is a team of selected psychologists, social workers and prison officers who have received specific training in listening or ethics. Officers may also call upon the welfare advisor of their institution. With regard to the return to work, in spite of some tensions, no situation presenting a major problem has been relayed. The fact that the return to work was very gradual probably allowed for a smooth reintegration, avoiding a block of non-gravists being confronted with a block of strikers. Each institution has provided a space for speaking at a basic consultation committee on the occasion of the resumption. The two institutions hardest hit by the physical actions of the pickets wanted a member of the president's welfare unit to be present at the concertation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic451x.u46	Thank you for your answers. It is interesting and especially positive to note that no serious incidents have been deplored and that the return is proceeding satisfactorily so far. For the rest, we will follow the way this is going to happen and we will eventually come back to you.
