ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u1	Mr Top is not here and I was not allowed to receive any news from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question follows on from last week's discussion with the Prime Minister when he replied to a similar question. However, there is a specific responsibility for this matter at the custody minister, responsible for the Buildings Management, because in public procurement there is sometimes too much sensitive information made available to the public about critical infrastructures, server parks, storage depots. It's pretty far-reaching. I have also illustrated this for the Prime Minister with a number of very pertinent examples, such as all the specifications on night vision and its limitations and information from users distracted to the dropbox which is very unsafe. The architecture is well-intentioned, with a login, but over time, you can easily access very sensitive information via google cache servers or through outdated Windows 7 systems that are used by the government. I have brought some examples of ground plans of NATO buildings, with precise indications where the servers are located or where the fuels are stored. This is not a new problem. It was known by the minister. There has already been an exchange of views on this subject. Until a few days ago, however, that information could still be easily touched. However, the context has changed, in the sense that we can no longer afford to throw the data in the same way. We cannot simply make certain items available from the very beginning of a public contract on the basis of maximum transparency. That is not to say that the procedure must be undermined, quite the contrary, but there must be stricter scrutiny of potential tenderers, interested candidates, that they must register, that there is a proper identity check, that they have access to documents in a secure manner. Minister, what is the state of affairs after I have pointed out the problem several times to different ministers? I understand that there has also been a coordination meeting. What is the state of play with regard to the updating of the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u3	Mr Deseyn, a procedure under the name Safe was introduced. Building contract documents are no longer published, either on the website of the Government of the Buildings or via e-Notification. In the case of small contracts, defined as contracts of less than EUR 5 500, the contractors concerned shall send an order form to the official responsible for the project in the operational service. Then the contractor will be sent the documents by e-mail. In the case of large orders, the documents are collected in a limited file and published on e-Notification. The documents may be consulted only by the applicant mentioned in the written request. He receives a link and password via an e-Notification email. A breakdown of the various sensitive data in the Buildings Management is not yet applicable. To this end, a first step has already been taken in collaboration with the clients of the Regie der Bouwken. At present, therefore, the Safe procedure applies to all contracts except for insensitive contracts, such as press, economist and training. The data that are published online are the municipality, the federal government as well as a description of the works according to the description in the CPV codes. The CPV codes are included in a common procurement vocabulary to catalog them. The contract documents themselves must therefore be requested and transferred only after verification of the applicant's identity using his company number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u4	So, Minister, there is clear progress, with better and tighter procedures. However, Minister, we must not forget one thing, in particular the clean-up of what is still too gibberish on the Internet. That is indeed not easy, because it sometimes escapes from its own servers, because it concerns its own archiving servers or simply because private individuals or companies have duplicates. Around what really still links to archive servers, however, an active policy can be pursued. I also understand, after contacts with various specialists and officials, that there is an accelerated cleaning process. To date, however, very sensitive information can still be obtained, for example about police, about the exact way in which radio shields are assembled, about the security systems around certain public domains or about the antivirus software used. We could give you a whole list. However, the examples are sufficiently clear, so we still need to be alert to the clean-up phase, which is clearly not yet over. I do notice a positive aspect, namely that it is being cleaned up. However, the federal government is not yet clean in that respect, and I am concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u5	I propose that we now deal with questions Nos 6080 and 6701 by Mrs Jadin. After the Minister's answer, we can then deal with questions Nos 6698 and 6700 by Mrs Jadin. Mrs Jadin, that way you can ask your two questions. For those who come to the Chamber from the East cantons, we must be sympathetic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to see you in the Finance Committee for the files relating to the Régie des Bâtiments. A very important issue concerns the construction of the courthouse in Eupen and the launch of the public market for this construction. It is a project that has existed for a very long time. The latest information we received related to the financing of the project due to the new European standards. Minister, how was the evaluation of the Institute of National Accounts (ICN) conducted? What are the results? What's the status? When will the market be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u7	Jadin, the last explicit response from the NCI reached the Régie des Bâtiments on July 7, 2015. It is clear from this letter that the file of the Eupen courthouse can no longer be considered as neutral SEC, in accordance with the new ESA 2010 standards. Indeed, a rental period of more than 20 years as well as the fixing of the purchase option by a predefined formula are now two criteria requalifying the transaction. The lease will therefore no longer be considered as a simple lease, as set out in the ICN's opinion in 2012 on the basis of ESA 1995 standards. In order to benefit from the results of the existing public procurement and to avoid having to publish a new contract, which would make us waste valuable time, it is decided to continue the ongoing procedure, taking into account the impact that the new ESA 2010 criteria could have on the project's budgetary non-neutrality. This means that the project is provided for in the federal state budget. We continue the market as planned. With regard to permits, a new licence application has already been submitted by the Régie des Bâtiments on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u8	Minister, the Régie was very forward-thinking as it was known that the old licence was expiating in the light of this new situation. I am pleased that precautions have been taken. We're going to be able to launch the promotion market for reconstruction. I mean, beautiful! Will we be able to lay the first stone, Minister? I'll be there, too. I'll bring it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u9	Mr President, Mr Minister, the laboratory of the Federal Judicial Police in Liège, like other laboratories attached to the judicial police, will soon have to be accredited. To do this, it will have to meet ISO 17025 standards by 2018. I personally visited this laboratory last October, and I had to find out that it is in a global state of extreme obstinateness. It no longer allows for efficient work at all and, moreover, the working conditions there are particularly unpleasant. A fortiori, it cannot, under any circumstances, meet the ISO standards mentioned. Now, you are not unaware that with the Salduz law, material evidence has become paramount. One in three cases requires the collection and analysis of traces by a laboratory. It is therefore obvious that the Federal Judicial Police in Liège cannot do without a large accredited laboratory. Thus, the current absolute priority for the Commission is to have, by 2018 at the latest, the new laboratory planned for construction at the Vottem site. Minister, I know that you are familiar with this issue as well. Can you ensure that the Federal Judicial Police in Liège will have an accredited laboratory of sufficient size for 2018? Can you inform me about the progress of the construction file in Vottem of a new centre for the Federal Judicial Police in Liège? Is it still planned that the phase 1 following the construction of the new centre will involve the relocation of the laboratory to Vottem, and also that of the contact center 101 currently installed on Rue Saint-Léonard in Liège? Are you still considering a phase 2 with the aim of moving all the services of the Federal Judicial Police currently spread over the three sites in Liège to a unique site, that of Vottem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I am committed to this project because I have seen the state of the current buildings. I have a lot of respect for the people who work there. Few people would work so long in such circumstances. The publication of the call for applications took place on January 25, with a delay of two months due to the complexity of the file and various program changes requested by future occupants. However, this delay does not call into question the commissioning of the laboratory in 2018. In any case, know that I am this file closely, my aim being to guarantee this deadline. The accreditation of infrastructure is guaranteed by the needs programme precisely described by the future occupants and integrated into the special specifications of the Régie des Bâtiments. As regards the status of the construction file in Vottem, only the Federal Judicial Police Laboratory and the contact centre 101 are involved in the first phase of the work. The organization of the relocation of other services will take place during the second phase. Phase 2 on the move of all Federal Judicial Police services to Vottem was validated by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2015. With respect to the site, however, the Council of Ministers asked Régie des Bâtiments for a comparative feasibility study on another site, namely the military barracks on Rue Saint-Laurent. This study will be forwarded to the Council of Ministers with the terms of reference and the decision to select Phase 1 of the Masterplan of Vottem. The consolidation of the Federal Judicial Police is therefore still relevant, but the choice of the site has yet to be confirmed. When we are in possession of the offers for construction work, I will decide which of the two sites will be selected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that a second option is being considered. It is to be hoped that this will not hinder the project as a whole and that a satisfactory solution for the agents can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I would like to comment on your answers to my question about the renovation of the Verviers courthouse. Indeed, you told me at the time that, in this regard, the judicial services would be partially installed in the buildings acquired from T-Palm located in the immediate vicinity of the courthouse. I was able to see that recently. Minister, what is the status of this move? Will it be possible to occupy the site quickly? There is a real need for services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the Régie des Bâtiments considers it possible to conclude the purchase act very soon, in the first quarter of 2016, with transfer of ownership in June 2016. Contracts for first installation works (closing, courtroom equipment, coating, etc.) work will only be possible after the transfer of ownership, i.e. from June 2016. In this case, the provision of facilities is envisaged in the first half of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u14	Minister, is there a problem with this property exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u15	As you know, visiting the notary takes a certain amount of time, i.e. up to four months. It's the normal procedure. We need to be owners before we start work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u16	That makes sense! Has an agreement been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u17	That's right. It's only a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u18	Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u19	We're going from Eupen to the Noorderkempen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u20	Mr President, for the Minister, the Noorderkempen are already closer to home. Mr Minister, my question concerns energy consumption in the major federal institutions in the Noorderkempen, in particular the criminal institutions of Hoogstraten, Turnhout, Root and Merksplas, and the centre for illegal immigrants. This is purely a question of figures and that is why I had first put it as a written question, last summer, also to the attention of the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. However, either I did not receive an answer or the answer that this matter does not fall within the competence of the Minister or of the Secretary of State. Mr Minister, according to my information, this data can be found in the EIS database, which is within your competence. That is why I am now asking whether this is true and whether you are in possession of the figures requested. I'm asking for a whole list of numbers, and I may not be asking all these questions right now. For me, you do not have to read out all these figures in your reply; if you can give them to me, that is good. If I can't, I'd like to know where I can get that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u21	Mr President, Mr Wilrycx, I do not understand why your written question has not been answered by my services. I apologize for that. I've got all the numbers on it, and they do come from the EIS database. I'll hand them over to you on this one. I must add, however, that the payment of the invoices for natural gas, electricity, fuel oil and water is borne by the occupying services, not by the Government of the Buildings. I therefore believe that we have said that the data can be retrieved from these services. However, we have been able to extract the figures from the EIS database, because that database is managed by the Government of the Buildings. So now you have all the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u22	Mr President, perhaps this is a misunderstanding. Thank you for the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u23	So that's the end of the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u24	Mr President, four months ago I tabled my question. I had to carry out archaeological excavations to find her! Minister, as part of the discussions on the Masterplan III on prison infrastructure, in 2008 the Council of Ministers selected Sambreville as a possible place for the establishment of a future prison. The location of the land intended to host it had raised a number of questions at the time, in particular as to the nature of the soil. Thus, the opinions differed on the remediation work and its financial support. The last contacts between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Walloon Region, in February 2013, allowed the initial fears about the level of pollution of the proposed site to be eased. It is a land of 11 hectares, owned by the Saint-Gobain companies, which they undertook to make available to the operator called to build the prison of Sambreville, for a symbolic euro. Since then, with the support of SPAQuE (Société publique d'aide à la qualité de l'environnement), a project sheet has been submitted in order to qualify for ERDF funds for the period 2014-2020 and to clean up the site in question. At its meeting on 21 May 2015, the Walloon government selected the clean-up project with financial support of €3,471,000. I note from the above that the reasons underlying the initial reservations of the Régie des Bâtiments with respect to the Sambreville site have been completely lifted. Unfortunately, it seems that the Régie des Bâtiments has not given any news of this issue since the beginning of the legislature. Minister, can you tell us at what stage is the Régie des Bâtiments in the investigation of the case for the establishment of a prison in Sambreville? What are the reasons for his silence in recent months? I know the news has been very busy. If so, what are the remaining objections to the proposed location? What will be the next steps on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u25	Mr President, Minister, in February 2014, Minister Turtelboom announced the decision of the Council of Ministers to rebuild the prison in Verviers. This was very good news since the prison had been closed for almost two years. Since then, we have been waiting for the building to be razed and rebuilt according to plans drawn up by the Masterplan prisons. In the province, only the prisons of Huy and Lantin are still open. This situation generates long journeys both for the hearings and for visits to the families of the detainees. The Minister of Justice has just confirmed, in response to an oral question, the principle of renovation of the Verviers courthouse. It therefore seems logical that the Verviers prison should also be rebuilt in accordance with the expectations of the families of detainees and the judicial world of the region, as well as with a view to urban planning. Minister, can you tell me when the reconstruction of Verviers prison will be implemented? What will be the type of construction and operation of this prison? To which public will it be dedicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I do not suffer from obsessive problems, but I regularly come back to this issue because there is still an important question in Verviers, which mobilizes all the actors in the political and judicial worlds. In November 2015, I read an article in a French-language newspaper about Masterplan III. According to the Minister of Justice, this article happened by chance in the newspaper Le Soir. The article was quite precise since it announced the reconstruction at the Verviers site of a prison of 240 individual cells. He also discussed the situation of the Lantin prison, which should also be rebuilt. If we were not to rebuild Verviers or Lantin, the situation would be serious in the province of Liège. The judiciary and the political world, all parties, have mobilized. A letter to that effect was sent to you as well as to your colleague, the Minister of Justice. Less than two weeks ago, he went to see the situation on the spot. No publicity was given around this visit, which was intended to be constructive and technical. We always feel that we are moving towards a solution, but when the question is addressed to the Minister of Justice, he tells us that the Masterplan must be approved by the Council of Ministers, that it ignores its programming on the agenda and that it is above all the Minister of the Régie who is the main actor. However, when I ask him, he tells me that Masterplan III is first needed. Sometimes I feel like I'm just a big ping pong ball that goes from one side to the other, suggesting that you can be obsessed with a file, but because you don't get answers, the questions remain! Can you confirm to me, Minister, that the programme for the reconstruction of the Verviers prison is still ongoing? What's the timing? There is a need to reassure the entire judiciary and the workers in these prisons who are being deported to other places. It is obviously the families of the detainees who suffer because access to visits is difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u27	Mr President, last October I heard from the press about the government's intentions with regard to prisons. I wonder about the implications of these choices in Namur province. Have they been thought of in terms of mobility, spatial planning, distribution of public tools throughout the territory, but in this case in accessible places? I wonder about the proper use of public resources and the consistency, with past decisions, of expenditure already incurred in relation to land already owned by the Régie des Bâtiments. I also wonder about the impact on prisoners, their families, workers and prison policy. Like my colleagues, I interviewed the Minister of Justice to try to understand. I didn't learn any more. I hope that with you, we will be able to better understand the logic of the government and perhaps influence it with respect to our knowledge of the ground. Do you use the right locations? Are the means available well used? Shouldn't we be renovating existing prisons? The first part is the surprising announcement of the desire to build a new prison on the site of the former NATO base in Sugny, Namur province, but on the territory of the municipality of Vresse-Sur-Semois which is located in the extreme south, more than an hour from Dinant and more than an hour and a half from Namur. It's a surprise. Indeed, we heard about it for the first time because other land was already being considered, notably in Achêne in the commune of Ciney and in Sambreville, as my colleague, Mrs Özen, quoted. This choice, if confirmed, raises a number of questions about the mobility difficulties that would be associated with the installation of such a remote prison. I am thinking, among other things, of the impact of this expulsion on the reintegration of prisoners, on their families and on the actors of the justice system. This will also have an impact on the legal costs of transporting detainees. Will this choice, if confirmed, be economically relevant? That's a question I'm asking myself. Of course, there is a need for public services in this area, but do we have to put a prison there? Minister, if you confirm that this Sugny site has been retained, on what basis has the Régie des Bâtiments retained it? What criteria led to the selection of the site of the former NATO base in Sugny? How long has this trail been under consideration? Has the Régie des Bâtiments sought the expertise of an official body to identify, in the province of Namur, a land likely to host a prison? If so, with whom do you engage? When will a feasibility study be carried out? We can still change our mind along the way. It wouldn't be the first time. What is the estimated cost of building the infrastructure? What would be the architectural and energy characteristics? When would it be realized? To continue with the logic, I come to my second question, concerning the abandonment of the project to build a prison in Ciney. The Régie des Bâtiments acquired in Achêne, in the territory of the commune of Ciney, a few years ago, land for the construction of prison infrastructures. Given the geographical location of the site, close to the motorway and rail routes, and the fact that the Régie des Bâtiments is already the owner of the proposed land and that a feasibility study has already been carried out, the choice of the federal government to abandon this project – unless I have any information at my disposal – is difficult to understand. The mayor of Ciney recently indicated that the town planning department of Ciney had been approached by an office of architects who claimed to be designated by the Régie des Bâtiments. These architects wanted to see if they could modify the plans established in 2001 already, and provide for an additional floor. I would like to understand the reasons for eventually abandoning this project. Minister, why was the site of Achêne not retained to accommodate a prison? Do you confirm that an architectural office was well mandated to carry out plans for a future prison in Achêne and that its work continues? What amounts has the Régie already invested for the purchase of the Achêne land, for the completion of this feasibility study and for the costs of architects? What are the Régie's plans for this land if a prison is not built there? In addition, existing prisons pose problems of comfort, security and energy efficiency. This is the case of Namur prison, a building dating back to the 19th century. This building has the merit of being close to the centre and being accepted by the residents, but it lacks age. Under the previous legislature, the Minister of Justice and your predecessor in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments had referred to an action plan for this prison. The aim was to improve the occupation of the current prison pending the construction of another prison. As long as we are part of the longer-term maintenance of this institution, we can imagine that more work will be required, and that the Régie des Bâtiments will be requested by the SPF Justice. Are you involved in the preparation of the Masterplan prisons? Have the work planned under the 2011 Action Plan been completed? What was the total cost? In view of the continued operation of Namur Prison, has a further assessment been carried out of the work to be undertaken there in terms of comfort, security and energy capacity? What adjustments will be needed? What will the cost be? Within what time frame would they be achieved? To what budget will the costs be charged? I ask the same questions for Dinant prison, which was announced as being closed, but whose life and exploitation – if I can say so – would be prolonged. What means will be available to make conditions on the spot the best possible? Does anyone have an overview of this Masterplan prisons? Maybe it's you. We'll know in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u28	Mrs Özen, Mr de Lamotte, Mr Frédéric, Mr Gilkinet, unfortunately I cannot answer your questions yet because Masterplan III for prisons is currently under discussion within the government. I realize it's been a few months. The content of the plan submitted, therefore also the sites and typology of the prison policy, is intrinsically part of these discussions. You will understand that I cannot disclose any information about this as long as there is no agreement. It is in the interest of all parties to reach a balanced but, of course, progressive agreement as soon as possible, preferably a substantive agreement that is broadly supported. I would point out that the law firm and the Régie des Bâtiments propose this plan together. As soon as Masterplan III has been approved by the Council of Ministers, I pledge to present it to the Committee and Parliament, and I will gladly answer any questions you may have. I hope we can make decisions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, your answer can only disappoint me, especially since I have waited four months to finally get a very weak answer. I am a member of the Justice Committee, where discussions on future settlements and the minister's prison policy are organised. But, for the time being, files are pending in some administrations, while the subsidies have been obtained. You know, however, that they are normally to be used or, in any case, released within the time limits, otherwise they are lost. The federal government must therefore make the necessary decisions as quickly as possible and provide a clear response to the progress of the pending cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the question is a few months ago. My impatience is growing more and more! I imagine that the Minister of Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments will try to make every effort to respond positively. From the moment the courthouse is renovated, the accessory that is the prison is also important, not only for the judiciary but also for the detainees and their families. I am disappointed with your answer because I was waiting for confirmation of the reconstruction of Verviers prison. I'll hand over the work on the job!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u31	Mr President, I think that with age I normally have to be wise, but there is a collusion between wisdom and impatience! Minister, this kind of response can be heard on a regular basis, but not indefinitely, because it would mean either that we can't agree, that we can't afford our ambitions, or that we have a hidden agenda. As far as Verviers is concerned, we cannot afford it! You will reply that this is also the case elsewhere, but I have given you a number of elements that demonstrate the need for this prison to be rebuilt in this bilingual district. I therefore ask you to try to agree quickly. I don't want to upset you by asking you every four months, but you will understand that this is our only way of doing things. It is our work as parliamentarians to control the executive, and we will continue to do so!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u32	Minister, you who sit in a government that has been singing goed bestuur, good management, do not give a good example. The questions were much longer than your answer. We can only be shocked by the lack of results that followed your announcement in the press in October. No response was provided to the workers, families and municipalities concerned. This also results in an economic impact, since land is being mobilized as a pure loss. Nevertheless, I will try to be positive. We can influence the process by making remarks that you may remember. First of all, I think that setting up a prison in Sugny is a very bad idea. Political negotiations have led to this option, but this site is too remote. So much public investment needs exist in remote areas, so much a prison infrastructure located at an hour from Dinant and an hour and a half from Namur, at the end of Belgium, is not a viable project. Further federal public investment is needed in this region. Next, Ciney offers much more accessible public transit land and is equipped with road infrastructure. If you do not wish to have a prison set up there, submit the site to the Economic Office of Namur Province. Investors are looking for land to create jobs. In any case, decide one way or another! On the other hand, with regard to existing infrastructure, Namur and Dinant have living and working conditions that are dangerous and unworthy of our times, particularly with a view to the reintegration of prisoners. That is why I advise you to invest in it, including energy. This will save you money. Finally, land is available in Sambreville. Clean-up measures have been taken to use an industrial wasteland for the purpose of creating a public tool, which is not the one I prefer, but which is sometimes indispensable. Why give up this project? Obey your choices. Demonstrate that you are a sincere supporter of the goed bestuur. But setting up a prison in Sugny is not an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the Brussels courthouse, the work of the famous architect Joseph Poelaert, is one of the most important jewels of our national heritage. Built in the 19th century, this imposing building was at the time one of the largest monuments in Europe. Today, it remains the largest courthouse in the world. Unfortunately, no one will have escaped that this building has suffered the dread of time and that its state of conservation is problematic. This situation is so worrying that the prestigious international organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) even ranked it last October in its list of the most threatened buildings in the world. Another study by Terra Nova, in Paris, unfortunately reserved the same fate for him. The renovation works, launched in the 1980s, have not yet been completed and the building has been covered for too long by a myriad of unnamed scaffolding. As parts of the palace have become unusable, a number of judicial functions have had to be transferred to nearby buildings, the rent of which weighs on the State Treasury: some regularly mention the sum of 20 million euros per year, including the Urban Research and Action Workshop (ARAU). Finally, the direct approaches to the courthouse would also deserve to be renovated to regain their chandelier of old. On 17 November last, in the Finance and Budget Committee, you announced that the scenario for reassigning a substantial part of the building, by setting up shops and cultural spaces, had been abandoned. Recalling quite rightly the symbolic and emblematic function of the courthouse, both in the Brussels and Belgian imaginations, you confirmed that the general objective would now aim at the gradual reintegration of the functions of justice in a secure and renovated environment. Minister, I can only welcome this decision! On the one hand, this should make it possible to end the costly rental of alternative reception buildings in the long run. On the other hand, this should reassure all the professionals of the justice system and the federations of independents of the neighborhoods in the vicinity, who had been very openly concerned about the potential transformation of the palace into a kind of shopping mall. The problem of securing the courthouse is often raised. However, I recall that there have been only three escapes in 25 years and that the escapees have, each time, passed through the main entrance by robbing people with a firearm because they had been aided by accomplices. Today, two entrances are checked. It is therefore incorrect to say that the building is not safe. In fact, very recently, at the level 4 alert, the courthouse was still open to the public and was able to function. Minister, with regard to the general renovation process itself, you announced in November 2015 the launch of a study by the Régie des Bâtiments to define the measures to accelerate the work. Notwithstanding the report that should be given to you, do you now have a timetable for the treatment of facades, including the removal of scaffolding, but also of the internal parts of the building? Have you defined a deadline for the full reintegration of justice functions into the courthouse? Finally, what is the total budget, as assessed at present, for this very large project? In the immediate future, a call for tenders could already be launched to identify the pathologies of the building in order to make the necessary repairs on the facade. An architect could be appointed for that purpose. Minister, are a specific timing and budget already defined for the treatment of these facades and the removal of scaffolding? In addition, it had been discussed in the past to enhance the courthouse from a tourist and heritage point of view, for example with visits to the interior of the building or the dome, which offers one of the most beautiful views of the capital. Is this an option to complement the justice functions you want to return to? The justice actors I recently met do not seem to be opposed to it, on the contrary. A partnership with the private sector could also be envisaged to develop a cultural space, such as the creation of a museum dedicated to Poelaert's work in a minimal part of these buildings. In conclusion, I would like to return briefly to the surroundings of the courthouse. Following consultations with the socio-economic fabric and the residents in order to develop a strategic vision in the medium term, you indicated that you wanted to work on the basis of a more comprehensive redevelopment scheme that would cover the entire Poelaert district, the Poelaert Masterplan. This project should also be based on the results of a feasibility study. Could you give us the details, the objectives and the timetable? Do you possibly have redevelopment scripts that would collect your preference and, if so, could you provide me with the content of the script? In fact, I share your view that we need to go further than the only building in the courthouse. It takes a re-memberment of the surrounding neighbourhood to re-appropriate this Belgian and Brussels judicial fabric, with the unoccupied space within it. A strategic vision must be given to the Masterplan and not limited to a technical-technical vision. Minister, the many personalities I have met (lawyers, magistrates, lawyers, politicians, residents) have a positive image of the courthouse and want to find solutions! Many of them told me about meetings they had with you. I hope that you will be keen to translate this into concrete action. For the time being, the exchange and dialogue have been constructive and hopeful. I hope that you will be able to bring all the actors together to work on structural solutions where everyone will take part. I am thinking of you, who are in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but also of the Minister of Justice, the Brussels Region, the City of Brussels, the judiciary, the public prosecutor's office, the bar associations and the Poelaert Foundation. There are great hopes and optimism, I hope you can give us good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the timetable for the processing of facades, in order to carry out the restoration of facades, a special study office will be appointed in the framework of a public contract. The documents required for this procedure were forwarded to the Inspector of Finance for approval. The dossier will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The contract for the design office designation is expected to be published in mid-2016. Studies necessary for the development of technical and administrative clauses and for obtaining the town planning permit could begin by the end of 2016. Studies and restoration work will be carried out in phases and facades. Work on the first façade on the Poelaert Square side could begin in 2018. Nine phases will be planned to deal with all the facades of the palace. Certain phases may be carried out simultaneously. In total, all studies and works are expected to last about 10 years. When a facade is restored, the scaffolding covering it will be dismantled. This schedule does not take into account the possible extended time required to obtain urban planning permits. Pending these studies and restoration work, maintenance (removal of unstable plants and elements and repair of defective joints) will be carried out this year. With regard to the schedule for the internal parts of the building, there is no timing yet. A preliminary analysis is needed to determine which services will remain in the building and which will be housed elsewhere. This requires an updated needs programme, which must take account of the split in Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde. This needs program is still to be transmitted by the Justice FPS. There is also a need for accurate and up-to-date infrastructure plans, which are not currently available. A comprehensive survey of the building is planned for the very near future. It must be understood that full reintegration of justice functions into the palace is not possible. The needs program for all justice services is too large compared to the surface available in the palace. Although monumental, the palace has a lot of corridors. The no-lost room alone has 3,600 m2. There are many floors in the basement, without daylight, where office spaces or courtrooms cannot be provided for example. For this reason, a Poelaert campus has been mentioned in the past. It would consist of a concentration of buildings around the courthouse. The aim is to carry out a study in order to accommodate as many judicial services as possible and to keep a limited number of buildings in its vicinity, which would accommodate other services. As you know, not all spaces are necessarily usable for this purpose. Pending this analysis, it is impossible to give you an estimate of the total budget for a renovation. Once the building has been renovated and renovated, we will limit areas accessible to the public to ensure greater security in certain services. Guided tours are therefore likely to be restricted to public areas. Those organized in the dome were banned for security reasons. In particular, a sufficient number of evacuation routes were missing. For the moment, this is not the priority. Once the site has been renovated, we may consider reopening the dome to the public, provided that we do not contact the areas closed to it and ensure secure access. An impact study was carried out in 2015 by a study office as part of the application for environmental permits and the application for the regularisation of an urban planning permit for the placement of barriers to the various accesses of open-air parking. This request will first be subject to a public inquiry by the Brussels municipal administration. We will then wait until the permit is issued before deciding how to improve the condition of the surroundings. The impact study proposes several alternatives in the short, medium and long term. In the short term, we want to remove parking spaces outside, because there are enough places in the underground parking lot Poelaert, and arrange the outskirts of the palace by making qualitative improvements. In the medium term, we want to remove more parking spaces. In the long term, it is desired to completely remove the outdoor parking and to improve the quality of the outskirts of the palace. At the same time, an agreement must be reached with the City of Brussels on the limits of ownership between the State and the City.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u35	Minister, thank you for these comprehensive and encouraging answers. I take note, as you have been relatively quick in your response, that a specialized study office will soon be designated and approval is under way at the level of the Finance Inspectorate. Work could begin on the first façade in 2018 and the successful bidder could be nominated in mid-2016. That's good news already! Thank you for the confirmation of the reinstatement of the judicial functions in the palace. Indeed, the entire palace will not be able to house all the functions of justice, since the base does not allow the light of day to filter. I can understand that we can't put all the functions in it either. But, according to my discussions with some professionals in the judiciary, would it not be better to return to the functions that require contact with the accused rather than with the federal prosecutor's office? Is this one of your preferred options?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u36	Mr Calomne, it is not possible for me to answer you, because we are currently in the process of collecting the needs of the various justice services. Once this collection is completed, a decision can be made. Having a unique place for services to the public makes sense to me, but we have to rely on the needs of the different services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic327x.u37	It is indeed a good idea to have an in-depth analysis of the issue. However, it would be important, in the medium or long term, to be able to remove surface parking, if the number of parking spaces in the basement proves to be sufficient, and to be able to benefit from a better layout than is currently the case. This will help to enhance the palace and a neighbourhood located in the heart of our capital. Minister, I will not hesitate to come back to you in a few months to ask you about the development of this important project.
