ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u1	Mr Minister, I had initially put this question to Minister Jambon, because it concerns buildings, and that is part of the Government of the Buildings, but apparently it is a question for you. I do not need to remind you, because you were closer to it than I was, but on 17 May your cabinet was forced in as part of a strike and a great deal of damage was done to the reception. How much is the cost of the destruction done? My next question has already been answered, because I know that the reception of your cabinet is already operational, even though it may not be quite. Everyone was posted a few days later to receive visitors. To what extent will the cost of destruction be passed on to the vandals? Was there a complaint? Will additional security measures be taken by the Cabinets in order to avoid such destruction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u2	Mrs De Wit, I have asked the chairman of the FPS about the damage done, the planned repairs and possible legal proceedings. Here's what I can tell you. For the cleaning of the reception of the FOD a specialized cleaning firm was called up and the day itself the necessary cleaning works were already carried out. The costs are estimated at about EUR 400, but we have not yet received a final invoice. The cleaning of the façade and the windows on the outside as a result of throwing eggs, among other things, cost about 1 000 euros. For the replacement of the interior windows towards the reception, several firms were consulted and specifications were received. The entrance door was temporarily restored with a wooden panel, installed by the owner of the building. The window in the entrance door was replaced day after the facts, but we didn't receive an invoice yet. The broken outside windows were also restored daily after the facts. We also did not receive an invoice for this. Secondly, the reception of the FPS Justice has been operational since Thursday 19 May, 2 days after the facts. Thirdly, the police have started an investigation and a report will be presented to the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, who will judge the opportunity of further consequences. Fourthly and finally, the security of the reception of the FOD's building will soon be enhanced by the full shielding with secured glass. This work will be planned by the Buildings Management in August 2016. Finally, a metal detection gate will be placed at the reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So it's still waiting to see what the cost will eventually be and what steps the parquet will take. I think that if one can identify someone, then there must be a prosecution. There must be a clear signal that this cannot be done. I'm glad the building will be extra secured, but not at the same time. It makes me a little sad that a cabinet, which should be an open house, as Parliament should be able to do, should adopt such drastic measures in the context of a social conflict. I very much regret that we have come this far, but when I think of the staff sitting there, I am glad that these measures are being taken. I don't think it must have been fun.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 11863 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u5	Minister, a general strike has been going on in French-speaking prisons for several weeks. You did make a preliminary agreement, didn't you? The trade unions then defended this with their supporters, apparently with the necessary incidents. In the meantime, we know that four of the six trade unions have co-signed the protocol, which is only to be welcomed. However, there are still two unions that have not done so. Apparently that proposal was not voted on in a fair manner, because a ballot box was destroyed so that one could no longer vote anonymously, but by a show of hands. A union leader was even threatened, he testified himself in the media. That's where a man starts to ask a lot of questions. I have also read, Minister, and I am pleased that you keep the lines of communication open, that you will continue to engage in the talks. I think I read somewhere that you were going to sit down with the unions today. I don't know if that meeting went on. I have the following questions for you. What is the state of play in the negotiations with the trade unions which have so far not yet been agreed? What are the stumbling blocks for them? When I hear what is said about this in the press, we are talking about different issues than those for which you are competent. Will you take any other initiatives to avoid these strikes? Today, even food supplies were stopped in Lantin. It just goes from evil to worse at some strike stations. What will you do about this? I have already made a suggestion on this, on which I have thought very hard, namely to call on the law on the civil mobilization of 1939 to reclaim guards. We just went looking for a legal basis to base ourselves on. Mr Minister, apart from that law, we must think about the public interest, public security and public health. We are talking about human rights here. Moreover, we are condemned for not respecting human rights. I believe that these human rights must prevail over the right to strike, all the more so because there is a good proposal from the government, which was accepted by four of the six trade unions. That nuances the right to strike, as we continue to apply today. To what extent are you considering retrieving those guards who continue to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u6	Minister, on Thursday, May 26, you made new proposals that were signed by the Dutch-speaking unions and the French-speaking Liberal union. You decided this Monday to close these negotiations, despite the fact that an overwhelming majority of prison officers in Brussels and Wallonia had refused these proposals. According to the CSC, 94.7% of Francophone officers rejected the memorandum of understanding. It must be noted that these new proposals are therefore not sufficient in the eyes of these strikers. Indeed, none of their claims were taken into account in your protocol: no return to the 2014 framework comprising 7,192 agents, which was the major claim, nor its sustainability over time, nor the termination of the rationalization plan. The second protocol therefore does not contain much new in relation to the first. It is not surprising that many of the Brussels and Walloon agents are still on strike at this time. Today, these agents are wondering if you are still the minister of all the agents of the country. In the circumstances, allow me, Minister, to ask you the following questions. What do you intend to do for strikers still on strike? How can you say that "your door will never be closed" even though you have closed the negotiations this week? Will you be open to the continuity of the discussions with the unions that have not signed the protocol? What can you offer them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have all heard in the press, I have concluded an agreement with a number of associations of prison staff, the ACV-Public Services, the ACOD and the representative trade union VSOA-SLFP. The two trade unions which have not yet signed an agreement, in particular the CSC and the CGSP, have always maintained their position on the demands they have made following their rejection of the first proposal and to which they have not changed anything in the course of the negotiations following that initial rejection. These requirements include, as you know, a return to the 2014 staff plan and the cessation of the rationalisation exercise or the project Working differently. I cannot respond to both demands because they are unrealistic and are not applicable to the whole of the prisons. I have met both unions, as have the other unions, in their demands by agreeing to the recruitment of 480 staff, of which 386 prison guards, which will achieve a total of 7 075 full-time equivalents within the monitoring and technical framework. This means only 46 full-time equivalents less than the 2014 framework for Walloon prisons. As I communicated on the occasion of the signing of the protocol, today I will still have an interview with the two unions, CSC and FGTB, the basis of which could not agree with the proposal. It goes without saying that they can still adhere to the protocol. I have the hope that at this stage, the strike in the Walloon and Brussels prisons will end quickly, now that my administration can start with the execution of all the elements contained in the memorandum of understanding. I am not in a position to tell you how long we can still keep up with the current situation, but I hope that this will not be necessary any longer. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the prison directors and staff present, as well as the police and army, civil protection and Red Cross volunteers for their continued support to the detainees. Mrs De Wit, in connection with the 1939 Civil Mobilisation Act, I maintain the position I expressed to you on 18 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I am waiting and looking forward to the attitude of the other two trade unions. However, what has happened again today does not predict much good and I find that particularly regrettable. Eventually, everyone is beginning to forget because we are getting used to it, that there are still people sitting there, even people who haven't been convicted yet, people who aren't getting medical care, people who aren't getting their meals or who aren't getting them at the right time. I know that today volunteers, executives and the regular staff, as well as there is, move heaven and earth to fix all that. Minister, I also know, as you know, that we are very lucky that it is raining. I'm not talking about the strike picket outside, I'm talking about the situation inside. In a heat wave keeping people in their cells for 24 hours is asking for a rebellion and asking for problems. Then the staff who are inside, who are willing to work, are also in danger. That is my great concern. Now let it be that 1939 law or anything, I'd like to see what a judge does if there's really no other way. I agree with you that social dialogue is important, but at some point it stops. If they don't allow the supplies anymore, it'll stop for me. They don't even do that with animals. In this case, we would intervene and the country would be upside down. And we wouldn't be able to claim here. There is today a very beautiful editorial in De Standaard of the general interest, which still counts, and that also counts for prisoners. We must bear in mind that if there is no solution, the government has an obligation, a moral duty to do so. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u9	Mr President, thank you. Mr Minister, unfortunately you did not answer the three questions I asked you. What are you going to do for strikers still on strike? You say that the only solution is that they can still adhere to the protocol. It should not be said that "your door is open" and that you are open to discussion and debate, because you do not propose any other solution to them. The protocol that was signed, it is true, was signed by a large part of the population in the North. This means recognizing that you are ignoring the reality of the whole country, since in Brussels and Wallonia this protocol has not been accepted. This is simply called a forceful passage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 11811 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u11	Minister, as a former Minister for Audiovisual Affairs in the French Community, I had continued the reflection and work of my predecessors, Mrs de Permentier and Mr Hazette, on the protection of children and young people with regard to violent and/or pornographic television programmes. It was in the early 2000s. It will be recognized that this already appears as a prehistory if one refers to the availability and current content of the Internet in pornographic matters. As a Liberal, I do not feel a soul of censor, but in the continuity of the attention that I have always shown as a parliamentarian to matters relating to sexuality - sex education courses for young people, the status of sexologists, etc. - my attention has been drawn by parents to an aspect which seems unacceptable to me and to which an answer should be able to be given, it seems to me. What is it? It's simple. Anyone, and above all, regardless of age, can easily access pornographic films. There are sites that are open to the public. Of course, my question is not about visiting sites with criminal, criminal or other content or specialized child pornography networks. I suppose all this is extremely difficult and controlled. On the other hand, what interests me is free and easy access for everyone. I myself did the experiment. I can tell you that without ever having to answer a question about my age or pay any amount, etc., we have very easy access to programs not only pornographic but also with quite violent or demeaning content. The pornography between consenting adults protected contractually in stagings that resemble reality TV but where, in fact, everything is organized, of course raises social, moral and philosophical questions, especially in relation to sexism. But, let me have the expression, it's sexism in many senses. That's not the point. On the other hand, I would really like to have some answers to the fact that, without difficulty, without the presence of an ad or warning on any more hard, violent content, any child can access this type of content; especially since all children have a gsm from the age of eight, nine or ten and these gsms allow to connect to Google. So there is no more parental control possible. Is it possible, Minister, to anticipate the content further, to make upstream arrangements on information, on the age of persons? Is it not possible to develop a mechanism for confirmation by the user that he is 18 years old and that it serves something rather than allowing him to click "yes, I am 18 years old" and give him unlimited access to the sites. I also announce that I will table a motion for a resolution in a request for reflection on the subject, with an emphasis also on the education/information aspect. If this is more relevant to the Communities, it could be a general approach. All the more so as, according to the information received, the situation in schools is beginning to pose a real problem with regard to the sexuality of young people. There is a regression, there is a regression in this area for various reasons. We are in a multicultural society. Not all cultures have the same approach to sexuality. But it also goes hand-in-hand with a pornographic surge on the internet. The two put together have very damaging consequences for our young people. Minister, do you think, from what your services can tell you, that it is possible to introduce additional barriers and give real content to the age limit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u12	Mr President, Mr Miller, I am of your opinion that there are many images and other media on the Internet which are not suitable at all for young and/or sensitive eyes and which often give rise to serious doubts on the whole line as to whether they should be made available on a global scale and without limits. The systems of parental care and supervision offer a partial solution but are insufficient for many people. The Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned about whether certain contents present images that are punishable and subject to prosecution. In cases of pornographic images with extreme violence, this will be good because they will be considered contrary to public order and morality. With regard to websites presenting images which, despite their reprehensibility, are still considered legal, I must refer you to my colleague, Mr Alexander De Croo, who is responsible for the Digital Agenda. For example, it may enter into agreements with service providers hosting these websites or media platforms, as part of their approach to self-regulation, in order to limit access to specific websites and to install additional security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not fail, as you advise me, to turn also to Minister De Croo. As I understand it, the public authorities are currently examining the possibility of identifying more content as being extremely violent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u14	Joined Questions Nos 11941 and 12000 by Mrs Leen Dierick and No 11997 by Mrs Sophie De Wit are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u15	Mr President, Minister, there are reports that there are between 500 and 600 people in our country who are qualified as hooligans and who are registered by Belgian football clubs. In addition, according to other reports, nearly 1,200 stadium bans were issued last year. I do not think it is necessary to demonstrate the importance of this issue just a few days away from the start of the Euro organised on French territory. It appears that offences committed in football stadiums continue to increase every year, despite the efforts made by the relevant services under the provisions of the Football Act. In view of the need to secure the football Euro at all levels, which will take place very close to home, I imagine that there is an exchange of information between the Belgian and French levels of decision-making. Minister, do you confirm the number of prohibitions mentioned for 2015? How many bans were issued in 2016? How many of them are still in force? What contacts exist between the French and Belgian judicial authorities in connection with the organisation of the Euro in June? I say "judiciary", because prohibitions can be either administrative or judicial. Are the identities of Belgians who are banned from the stadium communicated to the French authorities? What service does the FPS Justice have to carry out this data communication, alongside the Football Cell of the Internal FPS, which I will also question next week? Is it true that only stadium bans of more than two years also cover access to foreign football stadiums? Otherwise, are all stage bans, administrative or judicial, valid for next month's Euro? Have stadium bans been decided or will they be decided as a security measure? Does the ad hoc central file retain the previously established prohibitions or are they deleted after a certain period of time, as in the case of certain criminal sanctions? Are the data in this file communicated to the French authorities? Is there a convention in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u16	Mr President, Mr Pivin, you will understand that within the short time limit for answering this oral question, I have not been able to receive all the details. The administrative stage bans are the responsibility of my colleague in charge of security and the interior, as is the case with most bans. However, there are also the stage bans imposed by a judge as an additional penalty. All these stadium bans – administrative and judicial – are registered, in accordance with Article 45 of the Law of 21 December 1990 on security during football matches and the Royal Decree of 7 December 1999 containing the establishment of a register of stadium bans. The said file is managed by the Inland FPS. May I therefore invite you to ask my distinguished colleague Jan Jambon your question? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u17	You mustn't apologize, Minister. At the outset, I had announced that this question had been addressed to Mr Jambon. I thought, however, that you could have had some figures on judicial prohibitions. I would therefore ask you to communicate them to me in the follow-up to our exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u18	Mr President, Minister, in recent weeks the Belgian State has been repeatedly condemned by the judiciary to improve the conditions of detainees under penalty. Many prisoners find themselves in conditions that are known to be unsustainable: they are locked up in their cells all day long; they can no longer see their families or lawyers; meals are served once a day at a single time; the frequency of showers is also reduced; access to the meadow is restricted. You know the situation, we've been telling you for weeks. Minister, since the beginning of 2016, how many times has the Belgian State been convicted by the judiciary for violating the rights of detainees? Can you also specify from which jurisdictions these decisions emanated? Can you tell me how much the penalty payments are for each conviction? Did the state have to pay periodic penalty payments? If so, how much do they amount to?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the Belgian State has been convicted of failure to respect the rights of detainees in the context of the ongoing strikes on 159 occasions at the time when the answer to this question is drafted. The decisions emanate from the presidents of the courts of first instance sitting in interim proceedings: Arlon - 1; Brabant Wallon - 17; Brussels - 34 French and 2 Dutch; Charleroi - 1; Dinant - 1; Huy - 1; Liège - 82; Marche - 3; Mons - 1; Namur - 12; Tournai - 4. In addition to these decisions, a judgment of the Mons Court of Appeal concerning a few dozen detainees should be added. Given the number of convictions, it is impossible to detail them. However, we can say that the periodic penalty payments are very variable, both in terms of amounts (between 250 and 10 000 euros) and in terms of terms (per day, per infringement with or without maximum amount). In addition, some convictions have not been accompanied by periodic penalty payments. No money has been paid to date. The Belgian State has either appealed or made third party opposition to these orders, which are therefore not final. Where the applicant requested to pay the amount of the penalty payment via a service order, actions were brought to challenge them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u20	I thank the Minister for his detailed response, despite the fact that I did not receive any specific response, at least as to an overall amount in relation to the conviction, even if there was an appeal. We also know the opportunity to appeal when we know the unworthy conditions of detention of prisoners in our prisons, which you will not contradict. Is this not a way of carrying out dilatory procedures that are ultimately more expensive than what it costs at the moment? I know, moreover, that you are committed to limiting legal proceedings, to making savings and to having proper management. It is in contradiction with the policy that you want to initiate within the justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u21	Mr President, Minister, we have received disturbing information about prison workers in some prisons. It would appear that they are considered to be technically unemployed, while in some prisons most of them are still working. They would therefore be paid less since the start of the strike, while they work as much, if not more than before. This situation is all the more shameful for these prisoners when we know that they are already earning derisory wages and that many of them are not entitled to certain social rights. Moreover, in some prisons, the strike did not have the effect of reducing their workload but of increasing it. This is particularly the case when the work involves the functioning of the prison, which is paralyzed by the strike. Given these circumstances, at the very least surprising, allow me, Minister, to ask you a few questions about this. First of all, do you confirm the existence of this situation? Did you know about it? If so, how could it occur? Can you provide me with the hourly rates of current and pre-strike prison workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the situation you are presenting is not in line with reality. Gratifications for inmate-workers remained unchanged, i.e. +/- 1 euro per hour. These detainees have therefore been paid no less since the start of the strike. As for detainees who are unable to work because of the strike, they receive a strike pay of €0.62 per hour, with a maximum of 7 hours per day, in accordance with the Ministerial Decree of 1 October 2004 determining the amounts of the bonuses paid to detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u23	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u24	Mr Minister, the strike continues to have the necessary consequences in the Brussels and Walloon prisons and I do not consider the situation in which the prisoners have to live. As we could read the day before yesterday, medical care in the cell is now under pressure. There are patients with a lot of medical conditions and it seems that the strike is becoming dangerous. A man in remand would suffer from leukemia and he cannot get the medication he does need to control the disease. Especially on weekends, the situation appears to be problematic. The person concerned wouldn't have seen a doctor in a month. It would also have been asked that he would be transferred to a specialized hospital, but also could not because of the strikes. So it seems that you are still in charge of a trial, Minister. In that case, a penalty payment of EUR 2 500 per day was imposed that the man does not receive any medication or does not see a doctor. That's another lawsuit that originated in the strikes. So you can see how far the situation in prisons goes. The doctors who come to prison themselves often have to make their diagnosis through the squeak hole, the hatch in the cell door. Of course, that's very difficult. Because there is a lack of surveillance and security, the doctors cannot adequately examine the prisoners. Bringing a seriously ill prisoner to a hospital does not appear to be evident either, because guards who are responsible for transport do not work either. We all read that, Minister. I can only hope that the coverage is exaggerated and not entirely consistent with the truth. If it is the truth, then there is a very simple question: how can you ensure that prisoners in prison receive all the medical care they need so that they do not become seriously ill or die due to a lack of medical care due to the strike? I am really concerned about public health and I hope that you will be able to address that concern with your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u25	In general, there is no problem in administering medical care to inmates. Regular consultations by the prison doctors take place in a cell or in a room close to the cell department. The necessary hospitalizations are ensured. The guarding of the prisoners is done with assistance from the police and the army. All medications are distributed in a timely and correct manner. The prisoner you're referring to has been in Prince's prison since 3 February. As a free citizen, he was already a patient in a hospital in Brussels. There he has a file since early December 2015. On the following dates, he consulted the prison doctor: February 4th, that was the first consultation after his incarceration the day before, February 19th, February 26th, March 8th, March 11th, March 14th, March 17th and March 29th. On April 4th, he went on a consultation with the ear doctor. During a consultation at the Vorst prison on 9 March it was decided that the prisoner should be transferred to the hospital for consultation with the specialist who succeeded him as a free citizen, in the interests of continuity of care. The prisoner was indeed unable to consult with the specialist on 9 March. The next day, March 10th, he was transferred to the hospital and was able to consult with the treating doctor. On Monday 30 May the person concerned had another consultation with the prison doctor. The prisoner concerned shall receive medical treatment twice a day, the continuity of which shall be assured, including during the strike days. He gets his medication every day for the whole day, both on weekends and during the week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u26	Thank you very much for the information, Minister. I am certainly relieved to hear that he does receive the necessary medication every day. When I look at the consultation data, I notice that there is a big gap between April 4th and May 30th. While that man saw a doctor every now and then, apparently he had no access to a doctor for nearly two months. Probably that was the reason for the penalty; I don't know the verdict. Mr Minister, I would certainly like to call on you, regardless of the case, to ensure that medical care is properly administered, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u27	Minister, you have quite rightly decided that the French-speaking guards in the Brussels and Walloon prisons who have been on strike for more than one month will not receive any pay. However, communication showed, and that surprised me, that it is exceptional that wages are immediately withheld. In the past, in the case of strikes in prisons, wages were apparently paid in full. After that part of the wage was recovered, piece by piece, each time 20 %. This means that they have always retained at least 80% of their wages, even if they had ceased. The problem with this is that, of course, the threshold to strike is kept very low. In addition, strike cases are also protected. Apart from the technique of the disease notes, that is also a means. I understand much better now why prison is being stopped so quickly. That was the system, but that wasn't a logical system. The decision you have now taken is a valid one. In this context, Mr Minister, saving is the wrong word, but if you do not have to pay wages to a lot of staggering guards for a month, what does that mean nominally? In the end, it's about wages that we don't have to pay. Saving is the wrong word, but it is still a less release. How many guards won't get paid by that decision? How is it that it is only the first time that wages have been completely withheld in prison, where many strikes have taken place in recent years? That is the most pressing question for me. Was there a policy back then? Has anyone said that the wage would never be reduced immediately, but step-by-step? Who approved that rule? Will you continue to apply the principle of non-wage in the event of a strike to the prison system consistently?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u28	Mrs De Wit, I cannot yet answer your question as to what savings the Department of Justice will make on paying the wages of strike guards. All data relating to who has stopped when have not yet been collected, also due to the fact that some administrative staff have been involved. On 23 May, the data of who stopped when had to be transmitted to the payment authority PersoPoint in order to be able to properly execute the payment of the month of May 2016. Therefore, the remaining days on which it was discontinued could not yet be passed on. In addition, data for a number of establishments is not yet complete. I can tell you that no guard was paid any wages. The strike days between 22 and 31 May were not yet known at the time of the transmission of the data to the payment authority and have therefore been paid according to the working regime in which one sits. This measure is not new. If in the past the payment authority was not notified on which days of the current month was stopped, this may be due to the fact that the strike took place after the date of communication with the payment institution, i.e. around the 22nd of the month. The CDVU, the current PersoPoint, in January 2013 called for it to be communicated as soon as possible when staff have ceased, for the following reasons: avoiding a recalculation and the resulting recovery of the wrongly received amount of bet. Moreover, the regularisation of the recovery that would arise from a recalculation is a complex fact, including the creation of files to activate the debts, control of the combination of strike and other career incidents and creation of letters. Finally, it also represents a significant saving in the shipping costs that would be incurred if an individual exchange of letters were to be made for a significant number of staff. In any case, if too much pay was paid, it was always recovered afterwards. I see no reason to change this procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand very well that we need to know the days when we pay and that we cannot always know this. What I do not understand is, however, that each time one charges only 20%. It should be clear in the next month, because it will be known and must be taken into account immediately. It is the technique that is being applied that I wanted to question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u30	Minister, the law of 17 March 2013 reforming disability regimes and introducing a new protection status in accordance with human dignity has inserted in the Civil Code an article 497/1, which provides that "the King may make the exercise of the function of administrator subject to certain conditions, in particular by limiting the number of persons of whom one may be the administrator". There is currently no limit on the number of terms of office of property administrator that can be exercised. The Supreme Council of Justice, in a notice of 17 December 2014 to improve the control of the administration of protected persons, made a recommendation concerning the number of files managed simultaneously by the same administrator. The CSJ advocates a lower limit on the number of files that must "allow specialization and allow the professional administrator to amortize the effort in training, personnel and infrastructure". Accordingly, the CSJ recommends that, pursuant to article 497/1 of the Civil Code, the King limit the number of files that can be managed simultaneously by the same administrator to 100. This recommendation echoes several feedbacks from the field that have been addressed to me. Of course, it is necessary to combat certain abuses in the exercise of property administrator mandates, but this cannot be done without taking into account all the aspects of what some even call the "business" of property administrator: the accessibility of the administrator, compliance with the legal requirements concerning the filing of the inventory and annual reports, the expertise acquired by the staff assigned exclusively to this dispute, etc. A drastic limitation of the number of mandates, without taking into account the reality of the field and of certain firms structured around the exercise of this mission, could have the unfortunate consequence of causing the dismissal of competent and qualified personnel, but could especially negatively affect the daily lives of protected persons. I would like to draw your attention to this problem. Minister, what do you think of the YSC's recommendation regarding the number of files managed simultaneously by the same administrator? Are you considering limiting, in accordance with article 497/1 of the Civil Code, the number of files that can be managed simultaneously by the same administrator? If so, how many files are you considering? Finally, have you consulted with the actors involved in this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u31	Mr. Goffin, the King has the power to make the exercise of the function of administrator subject to certain conditions, in particular by limiting the number of persons of whom one may be the administrator, in accordance with article 497/1 of the Civil Code. This provision is taken over from the old system of provisional administration. Of course, I have read the recommendations made by the Supreme Council of Justice on 17 December 2014 regarding the control of the administration of protected persons. They concern in particular the number of files managed simultaneously by the same administrator, but also the other conditions which the so-called "professional" administrators should fulfil: in-depth knowledge of the legal provisions, appropriate administrative supervision and compulsory training. I am examining the desirability of adopting a regulatory framework that determines these conditions. These are a whole. It is therefore not appropriate for me to deal with them separately. I wish to draw up, in consultation with the Communities and all the actors concerned, an appropriate framework for the exercise of the function of administrator. The objective is to ensure that the law is enforced in the light of its spirit. Without prejudging the negotiations that are yet to take place, I share your concern about setting a maximum number of directors' terms of office. It seems to me particularly difficult to determine an absolute limit, since the workload and organization of an administration vary greatly in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u32	Minister, thank you. I see that the work is under way and the discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u33	Minister, the Act of 17 May 2006 relating to the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and to the rights granted to the victim in the execution of the sentence provides that the judgements of the court of enforcement of sentences must be communicated to the National Data Bank referred to in article 44/4 of the Act of 5 August 1992 on the police function. The transmission of information between the enforcement courts and the police is of paramount importance. It allows police officers in the field to be informed of the status of a person they may be required to monitor. In some cases, when a method of execution of the sentence has been revoked and the person concerned is controlled by the police, an immediate arrest is possible. I would therefore like to know whether the data bank is up-to-date, which is essential for its effectiveness. Under what conditions are the judgements of the Enforcement Court (TAP) communicated to the National Data Bank referred to in article 44/4 of the Law of 5 August 1992 on the Police Function? Within which time should this communication normally take place? Is there currently a delay in these communications? If so, how can it be explained? Are there any differences between judicial districts? Have any measures been taken to remedy this possible delay? What is the level of updating of the National Data Bank? Finally, on average, in one year, how many reports are made by the TAP to the National Data Bank for immediate arrest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u34	Mr Goffin, in accordance with Article 58, § 2 of the Law on the External Legal Status of 17 May 2006, the judgements of the courts of enforcement of sentences are communicated to the General National Data Bank (BNG) and to the local police chief of the place of residence of the convicted persons. As soon as the judgement has become final, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall transmit the judgement to the BNG. The communication of judgements shall be carried out without delay. The management and input of the BNG is the responsibility of the interior. I know that it gives priority to the registration of judgements of the enforcement courts. When a convicted person fails to comply with the conditions or commits new facts, he may be recalled. If necessary, this recall may be preceded by a provisional arrest order issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is strictly monitored by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the courts. If the convicted person is not found, he/she is then registered in the BNG for arrest. There are no figures on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u35	Minister, if I understand correctly, this database is kept up to date almost in real time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u36	We're doing our best.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u37	Question No 11995 by Mr Philippe Blanchart is postponed. Question No 12001 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u38	Minister, it has now been more than a month since the guards in some prisons are on strike and no longer carrying out their duties. As a result, the situation in prisons is delicate and marked by many tensions. Last Friday, in order to reduce pressure and above all to improve the general situation quickly, you decided, through a circular, to grant prison leave to some prisoners. The press reported a total of 150 to 200 persons involved. The news was well received by prison directors who speak of a "well-needed breath of oxygen". Minister, notwithstanding the validity of this measure, which helps to reduce the difficulties on this issue, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the exact number of inmates who have been granted prison leave as a result of your decision? On what exact basis have these detainees been designated? What is the maximum release period that can be decided under this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u39	Mr Calomne, to date, 202 prisoners have been granted extended prison leave. Thirteen files are under review. These inmates meet different criteria that have been established. Thus, the nature of the acts committed is taken into account: they have not been convicted for acts of terrorism or sexual offences. The total amount of their sentence does not exceed 10 years of actual principal imprisonment and they are not subject to a penalty of criminal imprisonment. In addition, they have already been granted a three-time 36-hour cycle of prison leave under the Minister's jurisdiction or are entitled to a semi-freedom measure. In addition to the special conditions laid down in the leave they have already obtained, they have accepted the following special conditions: to be reached at any time at a given telephone number, to report to the prison when instructed by the director, not to travel abroad. In order to ensure that these detainees were not placed in a situation of danger, the director also ascertained the feasibility of the measure (acceptance of the host environment and availability of means of subsistence). It is expected that the leave will not exceed 14 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic433x.u40	Minister, thank you for your full answers.
