ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u1	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u2	Mr President, I am, of course, looking forward to the oral explanation. You have just announced in your introduction a table which the Committee has asked for. Is it available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u4	Mr President, first I will deal with tax revenue and then there will be a number of reservations about the budget balance, the debt evolution and related issues. As far as tax revenue is concerned, the results for 2015 are not yet fully known. For example, in order to know the ESA-based result, as the members of the committee will no doubt know, we still need to have the January figures relating to withholding tax, withholding tax and VAT, as well as the January and February figures relating to income tax and corporation tax. The final closure of last year's budget will therefore only take place in the spring of this year. Of course, this does not prevent us from getting a good view of the 2015 achievements and evolution compared to 2014. In general terms, 2015 was a year for the budget. We must not lose sight of the fact that we were still on the European criminal bench in the year in which the government started. Thanks to the 2015 budget and the structural reforms that have been carried out, the European Commission has adjusted its assessment in a favourable direction. The importance of these reforms is not to be underestimated, with a view to restoring long-term public finances and also with a view to reducing the historically built-up very high public debt. According to the Study Committee on Ageing, reforms in, for example, pensions and health care will lead to a decrease in the ageing bill of 4.2 % of GDP to 2.1 % of GDP by 2016. This is therefore a half cut, which is also explicitly confirmed in the latest annual report of the National Bank. The size and extent of the impact of these reforms can also have a positive short-term impact on the budget. Not only through the effect of falling expenditure and rising revenue, but also through its effect on Europe's medium-term objective. So far, Europe has set the bar for Belgium at a structural budgetary surplus of 0.75% of GDP, the highest medium-term objective in the euro area as a whole. Reforms such as this government is carrying out to limit the bill for ageing in the future can lead to a downward revision of this target in the medium term. Europe is revising these targets at fixed deadlines. We will look at the effects of these reforms, but I am convinced that they can have an effect on a lower objective, because the reforms significantly reduce the future bill related to ageing. According to the recently published report of the National Bank, which, to my delight, has been studied in depth, the budgetary deficit for 2015 amounts to 2.8% of GDP. From a structural point of view, the deficit is limited to 2.5% of GDP, an improvement of 0.3% of GDP. It should certainly be a little more, although I do not share the opinion of the chairman of the committee and some committee members that we can conclude from this that the government is doing less well than the previous government. According to the first stability programme, which was sent to Europe by the previous government in April 2012, we should have had a budget in balance last year. Despite the fact that the crisis years were over and despite the accommodating policies already deployed by several central banks, the budget deficit remained high. In 2014, the last financial year prepared by the previous government, it was only afterwards that we even knocked above the so-called 3% tax threshold for Europe. In addition to the objectives, there is still a substantial difference from previous years when we look at the 2015 budget. The quality of the clean-up is fundamentally different. Today there is a government that reduces taxes for those who work and for those who create work. The fact that, despite falling revenue, we are still achieving an improvement in the balance is due to an even better control of expenditure. Honesty commands me to say that interest charges are a push in the right direction, but that was also the case in the past and even to a greater extent. So in 2015, there were lower taxes and lower spending. That was different before the present government, not to say the other way around. Expenditure did not fall, quite the contrary. The government continued to spend more and more year after year, also as a percentage of GDP. The only way to improve the balance of the budget was to increase revenue even more substantially. In this way, the government's revenue ratio increased as a percentage of GDP to historically unseen levels in Belgium. The government's clean-up strategy consists of strict expenditure control and aims to make our economy competitive again. Examples include lower expenses, index jumps and wage moderation. In the short term, these measures obviously have a negative impact on economic growth. I said from the outset that the short-term effects would be negative. I invite you to read the reports of this committee again. It is only in the long term that our economy will reap the benefits of these measures through the adjustment of the cost structure and the improvement of the competitiveness of our enterprises. We are already seeing positive signs in the National Bank's report that last year the private sector was the engine of jobs par excellence, in contrast to previous years in which the employment rate was maintained at a level through partly or wholly subsidized public employment. To confirm, I would just like to read a passage from last year's annual report of the National Bank: "In addition, the fiscal effort over the period 2011-2014 remained very modest compared to that in the euro area. The fact that a less restrictive macroeconomic policy mix has thus been achieved in Belgium also explains why the economy in our country has so far been able to cope better with the crisis." In other words, as of 2015, there is a substantial difference in fiscal consolidation. While previously hardly any savings were made, revenues were increased, and public and semi-public employment notionally increased employment and growth, there is clearly a turning point. We are on the way to a reform of public finances through strict control of expenditure, through the competitiveness of the economy, through lower taxes and last but not least through structural reforms. So much for my comments on the general policy of the budget. Important for Europe, as well as for investors investing in Belgian paper, is that debt levels fall to 106.9 % of GDP in 2015. An increase in the average maturity of the debt portfolio reduces refinancing risk and the current lower interest rates are firmly anchored for the future. As far as revenue is concerned more specifically, subject to the above-mentioned achievements of January and February and according to the latest estimates of the FPS Finance Study Service, total tax expenditure would be more or less in line with the budgetary objectives. The difference on the ESA basis is EUR 17 million according to the currently available data. I'm going to go into the details now. VAT revenue was estimated at EUR 30.2 billion, but was only EUR 29.7 billion rounded up, giving a lower value of 470 million. Essentially, three factors explain the reduction in yields. Firstly, the last few months of last year there is a cyclical dip against the much stronger first half of the year. Secondly, an amount of EUR 150 million in VAT was not paid by the counterparty in due time in the context of a court case. There is therefore a shift of revenue, as the amount is taken into account as additional revenue for 2016 in budgetary control. Thirdly, sectors such as hotels and tourism, especially after the attacks in Paris, have had less turnover and have, of course, been able to transfer less VAT. An amount of some EUR 46.6 billion was entered for the farm levy and only EUR 46.3 billion is expected to be realised. That is a negative difference of EUR 258 million. My services are currently investigating the cause of the negative difference of EUR 258 million compared to the original expectations. Advance payments were negatively affected by the absence of a deposit of EUR 400 million from a large company. The payment took place at the end of 2014, but did not repeat itself in 2015, as expected. As a result, the realisations amounted to EUR 10.1 billion compared to the estimated revenue of EUR 10.4 billion. It's always about rounded figures. On the basis of the amounts collected, in 2015 the corresponding personal income tax would amount to EUR 4,649 billion in ESA terms, while the budgetary objective was set at EUR 5,029 billion. This therefore represents a surplus of 380 million euros compared to the budgetary objective, although in the end 40 thousand more attacks were launched in 2015 compared to 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u5	You were talking about EUR 5.3 billion, which has finally become EUR 4.6 billion, and then you are looking at a surplus of EUR 380 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u6	No, it's about EUR 5.029 billion and not EUR 5.3 billion. Coherent corporate tax would reach EUR 4.385 billion in 2015, while the budgetary objective in ESA terms was set at EUR 4.075 billion. There would therefore be more revenue of 310 million euros in relation to the budgetary target. The preliminary figures show that this is mainly due to an increase in corporation tax paid after collection. In this respect, there has been a shift from advance payments to balances to be paid for some years. The realized revenues corresponding in SEC terms to the recognized rights of the personal tax enrollments of November 2014 are in fact the revenues of January 2015. They amount to – €780 million. The fees recorded for the recruitments of December 2014, thus the revenues of February 2015, amount to +38 million euros. These amounts relate to several different tax years, including positive amounts from previous years. Revenues in SEC terms for November and December 2015 enrolments are not yet known. These are estimated at EUR – 627 million and EUR – 517 million respectively. The realized revenues corresponding in SEC terms to the recognized rights of the November 2014 corporate tax enrollments are in fact the revenues of January 2015. They amount to EUR 1.364 billion. The fees recorded for recruitments in December 2014, thus the revenue of February 2015, amounted to EUR 374 million. Revenues for recruitments in November and December 2015, the January and February 2016 revenues, are not yet known. These are estimated at EUR 1.163 billion and EUR 361 million respectively. For the time being, overall, revenue is in line with the adjustments made in last year's budgetary control. A budget in balance is and will remain the government's objective. For 2016 we are preparing the first budgetary control. The prospects of the European Commission, the National Bank and the Federal Planning Office show that an adjustment will be necessary in order to maintain the planned trajectory. The derogation is the sum of less than expected revenue and higher than expected expenditure. For the latter, there is the inevitable effect of the refugee crisis and the far too long delay in investments in security. Apart from that, it is also necessary to check whether everyone in the government is complying with their commitments. Decreasing expenditure on a department due to an improved labour market or positive effects of the tax shift cannot be an excuse to fail to deliver. We will make this exercise on the revenue side serious. 2016 is a challenging year in that respect, as with the tax shift we switch more than one gear higher. Most of the measures are already operational and were adopted in Parliament at the end of last year. I am thinking, among other things, of the increase in withholding tax, the reduction of the reduced rate of VAT on electricity and the tightening of the tax on sightings. Some measures will continue to be implemented in the coming weeks. For example, the sixth state reform has forced us to discuss the design of tax regularisation thoroughly with the region's regions first. The diamond system has been notified to Europe to avoid incidents such as the excess profit rulings in the future. We will also be presenting very concrete initiatives in the coming weeks on the real estate vehicle, a particularly technical and complex issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u7	I give the floor to the Minister for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u8	We both need to talk, so we're not gonna play the music chair. I'm really happy to be here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, indeed, as was done at the beginning of the year, the FPS Budget and Control of Management has updated the estimate for the implementation of last year's budget and the budgetary balance of all public administrations. This new estimate is in line with that made in the context of the preparation of the 2016 budget and presented in several tables of the general presentation, which you know by heart: tables 1, 8, 9, 10, 12, etc. These are the discussions we had during our debates in committee last November and December. Before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to remind you - and I would like to stress this fact - that the figures we are talking about are currently estimates. We do not yet have all the achievements for 2015. This means in concrete terms that the figures that I am going to present to you will change over the next few weeks. Therefore, these estimates cannot be considered definitive. On 30 September 2016, we should have the INR's final figure for 2015. However, an initial estimate of public administration accounts will be delivered by INR to Eurostat by the end of March. The relevant European regulations provide that each Member State shall communicate its government deficit to the Commission, as well as the level of planned and effective government debt, twice a year, before 1 April and before 1 October. In order to achieve the estimate for the implementation of the 2015 budget, the FPS Budget and Management Control worked on the basis of all the data transmitted in January 2016 by the different administrations and similar organisations such as the FPS, the PPS, social security, the RIZIV, the OISZ and the ION. For example, as regards tax revenue, in particular personal income tax and corporation tax, the data are not final for 2015, since taxable persons have until 15 February to pay their tax or to receive their reimbursement from the State. In the area of health care, the information for 2015 is also provisional, as the FPS Budget and Management Control only had the achievements until November 2015. The same applies to other data from social security. On the other hand, with regard to primary expenditure excluding IPSS and IOP, almost definitive data were used in the context of the overall estimate of the 2015 budget. For entity 2, this also remains an estimate, since the data transmitted in January by the Communities and the Regions are also still provisional. The estimates made by the Budget and Management Control SPF confirm the latest state of play that was prepared on the basis of the update of macroeconomic parameters and the update of data from administrations for 2015 in the general presentation of the 2016 budget. With regard to the current estimate of entity 1's funding requirement for 2015, namely the federal authority and social security, it is very close to the 2016 budget. This funding requirement is estimated at ‐9,260 billion or ‐2.3% of GDP compared to ‐9,099 billion in the general budget statement, a difference of only ‐161 million. At entity 2 level, the funding requirement for 2015 is estimated at ‐1.922 billion (‐0.5 % of GDP) compared to ‐1.707 billion (‐0.4 % of GDP) in the general presentation of the 2016 budget, a revision of ‐214 million. As far as all public authorities are concerned, the SPF Budget and Control of Management now relies on a funding balance of ‐11.182 billion for 2015 compared to ‐10.806 billion estimated in the general presentation of the 2016 budget, a revision of -376 million, the bulk of which comes from entity 2, in particular from local authorities. In the end, Belgium's funding balance could reach 2.7% in 2015, compared to 2.6% estimated in the general statement of the 2016 budget. Taking into account this update of Belgium's estimated financing needs, it should be noted that the latter has significantly improved compared to 2014, when the claim balance according to the INR reached 3,1%. It should also be noted that this decrease is explained by the favourable dynamics of entity I. In fact, the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of In order to bring about the updating of the financing needs as proposed to you, the FPS Budget and Management Control used the updated information that was transmitted by different administrations. As regards primary expenditure, the estimate shall be based on the use of the liquidation appropriations by the date of 28 January 2016. Except for the ION, the level of primary expenditure in ESA terms increases by only EUR 72 million compared to the estimate of the general statement of the 2016 budget. There is also an increase in the amount of EUR 893 million to the Public Sector Pension Service to reach EUR 52.951 billion by 2015. In parallel, this increase in expenditure with the Public Sector Pension Service is fully reflected in the ESA balance of the institution to be consolidated, which translates into an improvement in the balance of these institutions. The final outcome of these two opposing movements is, therefore, neutral for the federal government's financing needs, an increase in expenditure and an improvement in the ION balance. With regard to the underutilisation of debt instruments with the exception of codes 8 and 9..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This double result, stability of primary expenditure and significant underutilisation, points to the strict management shown by the government over the past year. Contrary to what some people claimed a year ago, we made a serious but reasonable effort for ourselves, while maintaining the service to the citizen. What we have proposed to do has also been achieved. With regard to the other headings and without going into detail and above all without encroaching on the powers of my colleagues, in particular those of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, I can tell you that we can see that the overall amount of tax revenue was only revised at the margin between the general statement of the 2016 budget and the last estimate of January. The total tax revenue is now estimated in the ESA base at 106,720 billion compared to 106,702 billion in the general budget statement, an improvement of 17 million. The differential on which the Minister of Finance has returned is the result of various movements. At the level of social security, on the basis of data provided by the social security administrations, the balance is now estimated at +188 million compared to +52 million in the general statement of the 2016 budget, a difference of 136 million. In the context of this global exercise, the FPS Budget and Management Control also carried out an update of the structural balance. This will also be reviewed in the coming weeks, not only on the basis of a possible update of the nominal balance, but also on the basis of the new estimates of GDP and of the output gap by the Federal Planning Office in the context of the multiannual projections. In spite of these comments, the structural balance for 2015 for general government is currently estimated at 2.1% compared to 2% in the general statement of the budget. With regard to entity I, it could reach 1,7 % compared to 1,6 % in the previous estimate. At the level of entity II, the structural balance shall remain at the level of the entity II, which shall be at the level of the entity. With regard to debt, according to the FPS Budget and Management Control, this can reach 105.9 % compared to 107.2 % recorded in the general budget statement, or a revision down by more than 1.3 %. This revision is mainly explained by the consideration of KBC's repayment to the Flemish Community of EUR 3 billion, while the general statement of the budget took into account only EUR 500 million. Before concluding, I would like to briefly review the latest forecasts made by the European Commission for 2015 and by the National Bank of Belgium. According to the latest forecasts drawn up by the European Commission at the beginning of February, the balance of funding for all public authorities could reach –2.9% compared to –2.7% according to the FPS Budget and Control of Management. At the structural balance level, the European Commission expects a structural balance of -2.7% in 2015 compared to -2.1% for the FPS Budget and Management Control. There is therefore currently a 0.2% difference in the nominal balance and a 0.6% difference in the structural balance between the European Commission's calculation and that of the Budget and Management Control SPF. These differences reflect differences in the baseline data used. Thus, the FPS Budget and Management Control has prepared its estimate on the basis of all the data collected by the different administrations, whereas the European Commission does not have such precise and fine information. In concrete terms, the European Commission sets out a series of assumptions regarding the development of data that it does not have. This development is itself dependent on its macroeconomic scenario. Beyond these methodological differences, it must also be noted that the European Commission also has its own reading of the measures taken by the government, its own reading of the returns of the measures, its own estimation of the Output Gap, which, as a reminder, is a key variable to ensure the transition from the nominal balance to the structural balance, and its own estimation of the One Offs. With regard to the prospects for 2015, drawn up by the National Bank of Belgium in the framework of its annual report published last Friday, a small difference is also noted as regards the outlook made by the FPS Budget and Management Control in January 2016. According to the National Bank of Belgium, the general government's balance of claims could reach 2,8% in 2018, compared to the current estimate of 2,7% by the FPS Budget and Management Control. This difference is the translation of a slightly higher estimate of entity I's financing needs by the National Bank of Belgium and a slightly lower estimate for entity II. The difference at entity II level is explained almost exclusively by a different hypothesis regarding the deficit of local governments. The difference is estimated at €131 million between the two estimates. As far as entity I is concerned, we do not have detailed information on the factors at the origin of this difference of 0,1%. As with the European Commission, these differences may be explained by a difference in the appreciation of public revenue and/or expenditure due to the fact that the National Bank of Belgium does not have access to all the information available to the FPS Budget and Management Control and therefore assumptions should be made with regard to these data. In view of these comparisons, I would remind you that it is important not to misunderstand the exercise carried out by both the SPF Budget, the National Bank of Belgium and the European Commission. This is not a work to establish definitive figures but an estimate of what could be achieved in 2015 on the basis of the data available in January 2016. In this context, having a difference of 0,1 % or 0,2 % between the different estimates remains, moreover, acceptable for the masses to be estimated. Finally, it must be noted that the most recent estimate, i.e. that made by the National Bank of Belgium, is significantly better than that made by the European Commission at the beginning of February and very close to that drawn up by the SPF Budget and Control of Management. Here, therefore, is the estimate of the main budgetary results for the year just ended. These are, in my view, results that demonstrate the seriousness of this government's determination to clean up public finances and maintain the budget heading.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u9	Minister, I assume we will receive a copy of your text?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u11	Three fellow Members have put forward questions and I propose that they be given the opportunity to give them an opportunity to discuss them, after which we can proceed to the exchange of views. With regard to Mr Dispa's question No 9245 on the European Commission's winter forecast, I think it is a fairly general wording, but I give you the floor, Mr Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u12	Mr President, I can ask my question as formulated, but the order of business means that it loses some of its relevance since the ministers have just provided some answers. I would like to thank them for this, but I find that, for the sake of order in our work, it would have been easier for all parliamentarians to have the figures just presented by the ministers almost simultaneously, to at least have the documents before them. I find that in terms of method of work, it would still be preferable. Ministers both work in transparency, so our work would gain in quality if we had written information at the outset. The question I was asking was indeed about the most recent estimates of the European Commission, the Commission, which was in line with the previous ones, since it confirms that Belgium is moving away from its budgetary path. For 2015, the limit was 2.5% of GDP. It has not been met since, according to European Union figures, the deficit would be 2.9%. The minister has just explained to us how she is arriving at a real deficit of 2.7% according to the FPS Finance estimate. For 2016, the limit was 2% of GDP. However, the Commission estimates that, as the policy has changed, the deficit will be 2.8%. My questions were about the elements that the Commission would not have considered in its estimates and which the government could provide in detail. I have understood here that the answer is to a methodological difference rather than to the fact that the information is not as complete in the head of the Commission as in the FPS Finance. Of which act. My second question has not yet been answered in the presentations of the two ministers. It focused on the estimation of the budgetary effort to be made in the next conclave. The Minister of Finance alluded to this by suggesting that there would be a correction to be made, but he was careful about this effort, without giving us figures, but therefore, what will be the gap to be filled in 2016? For the rest, I have other comments to make, but I suppose I will be able to do so in the discussion that follows the presentation that was made by the two ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u13	Mr President, the exercise is a bit special. On the one hand, we discover, without any possible hindrance, a large series of data. On the other hand, the discussion is limited to the question of the 2015 budget. I think it's a little complicated to be limited to the 2015 budget and not to address the efforts that will be made in 2016. That is what is of interest to Members of Parliament, but above all to the population. What sacrifices will still have to be made? The Minister of Finance says that in the short term the effects are negative, but that in the long term it will be wonderful! It is a speech that deserves to be examined on the test of fact. It is indeed a trend, an ideological discourse in which one is based more on a vision than on reality. For me, this assertion is a little dubious. There is a decrease in tax revenues from what was planned. I did not properly note – but perhaps it appears in your document – the total amount of the difference from what was planned. In any case, I note that VAT revenues are lower than expected: 470 million, if I have noted correctly. The same applies to the taxation of natural persons. I still wonder how we can analyse this, beyond the elements you give on the cyclical decline or a payment of 150 million euros in court. That's not what can explain the whole thing! I ask myself the question of the effect of wage moderation on this reduction in tax revenues. When we look at the 2016 estimates of the Planning Office, it is true that our ratings are more or less the same since the latter says that purchasing power is hampered by the policy of wage moderation. This is an element that cannot be ignored: the effect of wage moderation on declining tax revenues. On the other hand, corporate tax, which had already been substantially increased in the budget, was nevertheless up less than what you have now seen from the figures you have given. Indeed, the return on corporate tax is greater than expected. When we see each other, we realize that, in the end, taxes payable by workers are less important than expected, and that corporate income taxes are higher than expected. This demonstrates the effects of your policy, which impoverishes one to enrich the other. This was already reflected in the budget, and the achievements still show this in a better way. The Budget Minister's statement stated that, contrary to what some had said, serious and reasonable efforts had been made to maintain services to citizens, but I cannot join you on that. In fact, every day I receive complaints from workers, social workers, the sick, the people who complain about the very serious consequences of your policy, in all areas of public services, justice, health, exclusion of unemployment benefits and restrictions within the various FPS. Services to citizens are not maintained at all. In this context, it can be said that your effort was serious, but not reasonable, at least not socially. The consequences are very serious. To make the link with 2016, I note that the decrease in the growth of purchasing power is well below GDP growth. Our public consumption shows anecdotal growth of + 0.1%. All of this will have a significant impact on the GDP growth estimate of 1.2 per cent; of course, public consumption growth of 0.1 per cent is nothing at all. We have a decline in public employment in both 2015 and 2016. Can you give me the numbers? The Plan Office provides figures on overall employment; it is said that there would be more than 30,000 jobs in 2016, but this decline is not reported for the public sector in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u14	Mr. Chairman, my first thought was that I had the impression that the Minister of Finance was speaking as Minister of Budget. Minister, you have made the statement of tax revenues. This is one of the elements that we were expecting, but when you give a speech about the efforts to be made by your other colleagues in the various sectors (Justice, Mobility, etc.)I have the impression that this is more of a budget minister's speech and that you are not giving your colleague all the room. The disagreements we had over the analysis of the original budget remain. We have other indicators and priorities other than yours, such as increasing child poverty, employment rates, the development of renewable energies, the means for mobility. I note from your explanations that you minimize the estimates other than yours, which are provided in particular by the European Commission. The latter has this advantage that it has an outside look at the exercise and this disadvantage that it has a less fine knowledge of the numbers. Mrs Wilmès, it seems to me that the answers you give are the same as those you gave for the initial exercise, i.e. that the tax shift will produce its effects. However, the structural differential of 0.6% identified by the European Commission is the result of the questions remaining under the revenue side of the tax shift. At the end of his presentation, Mr. Van Overtveldt tells us that he is still under discussion with the European Commission with regard to the Diamant tax, which is only a small amount compared to the other additional revenue expected. He says nothing about the questions that remain about the Cayman tax, about the regularisation operation – a concertation committee had to deal with this this morning and I don't think you have succeeded – or about the taxation of capital gains. If the European Commission identifies a differential between the federal government's budgetary objectives and reality, it is because, in the revenue section within your purview, Mr Van Overtveldt, the account is not there. Indeed, you do not bring the offset revenue of the tax shift. This may lead us, as the Commission points out, to a budgetary slippage, which would justify the day after tomorrow new measures of savings which we do not consider to be positive in the light of the situation in the Federal State. Where are you, Mr Van Overtveldt, in terms of the Cayman tax, the valuation of capital gains and the Diamond tax? You must be more specific than you were at the end of the presentation. I would like to ask you three questions about the fiscal adjustment exercise you are due to hold in March. What is the amount sought in billions of euros? In terms of the distribution between new revenues and expenditure cuts, have you agreed within the government or should this exercise always take place? In view of the European discussions, does your majority question the budgetary trajectory? I will refer to a source which is not my cup of tea in economic terms, namely an OECD report, but which wonders whether an error has not been made in recommending a trajectory that reduces expenditure, prevents a reinvestment in the real economy and leads to an increase in poverty problems and a deterioration of public services – just look at the state of justice or the Régie des Bâtiments, to name but two examples among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u15	Mr President, we had to have a clarification meeting today, and unfortunately I must note that we are coming out with more darkness than clarity. In my view, this is due in particular to the fact that our two ministers remain very unclear on certain aspects which are fundamental and above all because they are evacuating a crucial aspect, which is to report the estimates of the 2015 and 2016 deficits with the commitments made at European level. The question is this: if the government intends to respect its trajectory as it was introduced to Europe in April 2015 under the Stability Pact and if we take into account the new estimates of deficits, there is a huge gap! You did not mention this aspect. The difference between your estimates of deficits as you present them to us and those of the European Commission and the National Bank with the commitments made at European level does not allow us to clarify the political discussion. The Budget Minister is practicing the rhetoric of evacuation. The National Bank presents estimates of budget deficits that were larger than those imagined when the budget was drawn up, but the minister tells us that the National Bank does not have all the elements. The European Commission does the same and the Minister's answer is the same. The SPF Budget therefore knows all better than everyone, better than the National Bank and the European Commission. Except that you will have to present your figures before the latter to see if you are meeting your commitments in terms of fiscal trajectory. The elements that I have at my disposal and which you may be going to contradict are that the commitment made to Europe for 2015 is less than 2%; for 2016, it is less than 1.5% and for 2017, it is less than 0.6%. If I report this with the estimates of the National Bank of February 2016, there is for the federal level alone, a difference of 0.4% for 2015 and 0.7% for 2016 which will translate into the future budgetary control by wanting to respect the trajectory. We agreed to refer only to 2015, and not 2016 because there was a dissonance between the government and the European Commission, which contradicted it a few days later. We have therefore asked to be able to go into the matter further. If I stick to 2015 alone, there would be an additional $1.63 billion in federal funding. Today, what gaps do you have to fill in order to meet your commitments to Europe? How does this translate into absolute figures? I would now like to address the issue of the rights recognized for 2015. I asked the Budget Minister about this, who informed me that she was going to provide me with a number of information, while, quite rightly, considering that the matter was more within the purview of her colleague in Finance. The latter provided us with the established fee figures for 2015, while stipulating that this remained estimates. I will not take over all the posts (VAT, professional discount, etc.).), but two particular items that are important, namely the roles of personal tax and corporate tax. We have been told that for the tax roles of natural persons, there are negative roles of minus 4.64 billion instead of minus 5 billion – I round out – which represents an improvement of 350 million. For corporate tax roles, we were told that there was an improvement of the order of $315 million, as we expected a positive $4 billion and expected $4.385 billion, while telling us that this was still an estimate because we still had to count with the months of November and December, which are, of course, enrolled in 2015, but which will not be liquidated until January-February 2016. Today, in February, I do not understand that we cannot be told what was enlisted in 2015. Today is February, we should know. I am not talking about liquidation, which will take place later, whether it is a refund or a supplement to be paid. But what we are interested in is that we can now dispose of the amounts that were recruited in 2015. I do not understand that these figures are not yet in your possession. In other words, there are two things that need to be clearly seen, what is established by a natural person or by a legal person, in this case the reimbursement for a natural person – if we look at things in a macro-budgetary way – and in the case of corporations, a supplement to be claimed. But that is something we can know right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u17	Mr. Van Biesen, after that, you'll tell us what you want. Liquidation or cash flow is something else. I think there is an information problem that is not given to us. This, in my view, prevents us from having a clear vision of the tax revenues we saw in 2015. Without this, we are not in a position to judge the worsening or improvement of the deficit. It is a real lack; we should have a credible explanation. I am not making a theory, I am not saying – but it is true that we are hearing it, we are not going to hide from it – that there could be an organized delay in the tax refunds of natural persons, in other words we would delay the enrolments to the tax of natural persons because they are negative roles, but that we would rather try to speed up the enrolments to corporate tax, because these roles are positive. I'm not gonna get into this. I just ask that we be able to have all the rights recognized in 2015. I believe that this is legitimate and will help to clarify the debate. These are my two fundamental questions. I can also join the colleagues. Mrs Wilmès, be careful, your argument is that the Commission or the National Bank do not have all the elements. To the limit, if we agree with this reasoning, then we can follow you by telling you that they may not have all the elements of the parliamentary debate in Belgium either. Some doubt, for example, the estimation of some new tax revenues. You know that we have had lengthy debates on this. Neither the Commission nor the National Bank has taken into account new tax revenues linked to new measures which are still at a standstill for various reasons. It is either time to pass bills for various and varied reasons, or there is a procedure in the Consultation Committee. I therefore draw your attention to this argument which, in essence, could worsen the situation and blacken the picture. In my view, this argument should not become determinative or recurrent in your argumentation. You are trying to scramble this whole dimension of the debate that should bring your estimates closer to the commitments you have made to Europe. Can you tell us what effort will be required to meet these commitments for 2016 and subsequent years? But I repeat, I want to be correct: the objective of today's meeting was 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we wanted to look at the 2015 budget and the 2015 accounts. In this respect, I believe that we have received a great deal of useful and good information today. In many cases, there had been a growing concern as to whether revenue was still in line with what was included in the budget. That was the main question, which we certainly had on the revenue side. Soon we will, of course, talk about the expenditure side. If one looks at the various items on the revenue side, it can be seen that most items show small differences. Differences of 470 million or 380 million in one direction or another are always less than 1% of what was included in the budget. In other words, variations by type of taxation represent less than 1%. One seems to compensate the other in order of magnitude. We will be able to achieve a slightly lower level of taxation. According to the document I received, the difference on the ESA basis would be 17 million. We'll see what that means later. Here is the most important question: did the Minister of Finance collect the money he had entered in the budget and on which we voted here in Parliament? Did he raise the money for the federal state, but also for the Communities and the Regions? We can clearly answer that question in a positive way today. He has succeeded in resounding the figures in the budget in the accounts. Of course, we will have to look at a number of further elements. We will have a lot of opportunities for this in the next few months. One of the important points in this report is what Mr Laaouej said a moment ago, namely the reduction in the tax burden on individuals. At first sight, it is very good that only 4.6 billion has been returned instead of 5.029 billion. That is a good sign in itself, because that would mean reducing the interest-free loan that all citizens give to the State. As you know, the Belgian citizen pays too much taxes because of an excessive deduction from the company tax. In return, the citizen receives a share of the tax withheld, also thanks to the numerous tax deductions, such as the housing bonus. We have always asked questions about the relatively high amount of 4 to 5 billion over many years. It has once again been noted that around 4.6 billion has been returned to the citizens, the private sector, of the overly withheld taxes on the wages they had received. In this respect, I think it is important to examine this evolution further. Of course, Mr Laaouej's comment is important enough to be examined. Does it mean that the return of taxpayers has been slower and less rapid and therefore has an effect on the first quarter of 2016? At that time, we will not be able to confirm the conclusion that this interest-free loan is falling. I think it is important to review this later. We will have time to do so. On the revenue side, a written text was used. In the Finance Committee, we like simple things. A table with four columns containing corporate tax for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 would have been much easier for us to observe the evolution. Every year, we get a little better at it. On the revenue side, we are dealing with lower taxes, but revenue is in the order of what was included in the budget. For expenditure, we are still waiting for the table to follow developments. After all, it is very difficult to estimate all the changes on the expenditure side on the basis of a brief presentation. We remain a little hungry there, Madam Secretary. We would like a simple table containing the budget and the accounts of the various departments. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u20	We are not asking this to compare the departments with each other, Mr Calvo. We have heard nothing in recent months but parties who praised the work of their ministers. Some pointed, for example, to the importance of safety in order to condone that they colored outside the lines. I believe that communication of this kind is of very little use to the public. In the past, the traditional New Year's Concert from Vienna was interrupted by ministerial announcements pointing out that the bill was correct. Now it takes 45 days to get a description of the figures instead of the tables. Why couldn't we get the numbers faster? If it takes so long, it feeds the opinion that something would be wrong with the revenue or expenditure side. That is ammunition for the opposition to challenge the good work of the government in terms of revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u21	The opposition within the government, you mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u22	No, there's no opposition in the government. In Parliament, perhaps, but there is no such thing in the government. I hope, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that we will see the important table added to the report. Then we get a clear picture of the evolution on the expenditure side. I am remembering mainly from both statements the lower taxes, with which I cannot be unhappy as a liberal, and the lower expenditure resulting from the reorganisation of the government, with which I, as a liberal, cannot be unhappy either. Secondly, the efforts that took place in 2015 are on the path we set out. Is it 2.8 % or 2.7 % or 2.9 %? It depends on the source, but we have been confirmed that it will be 2.8 % or 2.7 %. There is still a long way to go in order to achieve a balanced budget, but the accuracy of the figures and the effort we are making with Parliament and the government means that we must be able to close the gap as quickly as possible. That will be the most difficult task for Parliament. We can say that one of the government's main objectives, in addition to the tax shift that has already been implemented, is to get the economy in order. We used to do this with a housekeeping book in which the expenses were recorded every day. Such a household book was then delivered to the people by bus. The same can be expected of us in Parliament, namely that we regularly question both ministers in order to close the gap in the budget. We will all have to make an effort, because we are not at all there yet, despite the favourable information we received today that we will still be knocking at 2.7 % or 2.8 % for the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u23	Mr Van Biesen, I would like to say that a Christian Democrat too can be pleased about lower taxes. However, the difference is that it is a little more concerned or unhappy when the burden is passed on to later generations, to children and grandchildren. That is what we are trying to explain with the motto of stewardship. Of course, that's not good. The key question is, of course, when we will achieve a balanced budget. When will we achieve a structural balance? It is true that saving and seeking new revenue to develop new policies call for courage. That's not easy. When I heard the Minister of Finance just now, I noticed a certain resentment and doubt about the agreements made. He said that thanks to the tax shift or a flare-up of the labour market, a windfall can't be an alibi for not doing things. That's kind of cryptic, but a good understandor can understand that certain people are endorsed. I think a cat should be called a cat. It is important to say which agreements are not likely to be honoured, but they must nevertheless contribute to the deficit reduction. One may wonder who is awake from the shortage. When I heard colleagues from the Minister's party very recently, there was almost a budget fetish. We cannot therefore defend a change of course. I think it is important that we collectively do the best we can to put our house in order as quickly as possible. It could be said that with the low interest charges there are a few opportunities to invest. We also tell the consumer to be careful, because borrowing also costs money. The same applies to the government. If the economic climate suddenly changes, so that interest rates rise, it could, of course, result in an extra large hangover if we do not act with the greatest caution. We also need to see what's actually going to be in the drawer. It is good to ask about the concrete measures that have been agreed. We discussed the tax shift and the budget in great detail. Quite specifically, we are talking, for example, about the redesign, the revenue of which is very high, or about the real estate vehicles that would produce a lot. The question is whether they will not cost money and increase the problem. We do not need to go into all these matters in concrete terms, but if you say that everyone has to do their homework, Minister, I would have liked to know what homework has been agreed. What is to be done against when? Minister, you have been able to sum up a lot of positive results, but we cannot be blind to the nominal deficit in the federal government of about 10 billion compared to the 11.6 billion for the joint government in 2015. With the sixth state reform, of course, the budgetary focus has shifted a lot. This is not yet apparent from the spread of deficits, as this roll-out will gradually follow. Surely that is a great concern, which is collective. That is not a reproach to one minister or another. I call for collective action. After all, it makes no sense for a minister to suggest that his or her pockets have been sewn up to make structural efforts. We all have to keep the agreements with the European Commission. We are already deviating from the mid-term objectives. In doing so, we must take into account all the expectations, otherwise I fear that it will not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u24	When I hear both ministers speaking, I get the impression that there is not much going on. I hear Mr Van Biesen explaining that it is all about details. Apparently, everything's fine. However, the figures speak for themselves. According to both the European Commission and the National Bank, the government's objective is not met. The stability programme and the arrangements with Europe provide for a nominal balance of -2% for this year. According to the National Bank, the year 2015 is down to -2,8%. Is it intended to keep the ‐2 % next year? Will you adjust the timetable agreed with Europe in budgetary control? I would have liked you to clarify that. What amazes me most is the ease with which some of the majority look at this. I hear you saying that it could certainly be a little more, Minister. The year 2015 is the first year that the Michel government is fully responsible for the budget figures. I cannot imagine that the previous government, which was made up exclusively of socialists, is again to blame for this. In any case, in the first year that you are fully responsible for the figures and results, that result is rejected at European level and by the National Bank. The National Bank is very clear about this. I've had another look at the report in the printed version. You say that you do not agree with the chairman of the committee and with a number of committee members that the government is doing less, but I quote the report of the National Bank, on page 162. However, the structural budget balance has hardly changed compared to 2013. Together, in 2012 and 2013, the joint government continued to see a structural improvement of 1.3 % of GDP." And then: "The necessary further reorganisation of public finances has since come to a virtual standstill." That's the conclusion of the National Bank. That is not what the opposition means; that is not what the chairman of our committee means, which you do not agree with; that is what the National Bank says about it. At the same time, we see that economic growth in our country is lagging behind. Under the Di Rupo government it grew faster than in Europe, today it is lagging behind. Finland and Greece are doing even worse, but we are lagging behind in the European peloton in terms of economic growth. You didn't say a word about that to either of you. The European Commission refers to the net disposable income of the Belgians and to the additional invoices that have been issued not only at federal level but also at regional level, in Flanders in particular. There is an increase in indirect taxes. According to the European Commission, and not according to the opposition alone, this has the result that domestic consumption is lagging behind. The fact that domestic consumption is lagging behind explains a great deal of the problem we are facing today. In short, we have to worry about the fact that Belgium cannot keep its agreements with Europe and has not complied with them. We have to worry about the fact that in our country economic growth is lagging behind, mostly in two countries. I am disappointed that the government's message is that it may be a little more and that that is the end of the matter. I think the government should be very concerned. I have, of course, read our committee chairman's column. He doesn't write to get the press, I think, he writes from a concern that we share. He is not only concerned about 2015, which we are talking about today, but also about 2016. These concerns are justified and have already led to opposition work in recent months. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have serious doubts about revenue. Many of the measures you have proposed are still pending today. However, this is not the case in the budget. You have, for example, tried to regulate tax regularisation with an expected revenue of 250 million without legislation. The Council of State then flagged you back and there will be a law now, but you still have no agreement with the Regions. We have questioned you on several occasions. After all, it's about a lot of money. We have heard you defend your plan against tax fraud. There was a lot of criticism from the majority, because many of these measures had not been discussed with fellow ministers responsible for this issue. As far as the plan against tax fraud is concerned, I have not yet seen any concrete action on the subject. The caiman tax would have to raise a lot of money. Do you have any idea of the actual returns, now that certain figures are coming in? The diamond tax has been approved by the European Commission for almost three-quarters of a year, which meant that you had to cut budgeted income last year. About the real estate vehicle, worth 250 million this year, I haven't seen a proposal in the Chamber yet. You enter all this revenue in your budget, for which you are responsible, but not only the opposition, but also some of the majority, Europe and the Regions, are questioning it very much. Obstacles are popping up everywhere, which you apparently didn't foresee. In the context of tax regularisation, you have just said that this is the result of the Finance Act. That finance bill existed when you took the oath as a minister. So you knew that law. You should not complain afterwards that it is a problem. You should've guessed that in advance. I fully agree with you when you say that 2016 is a year of challenges. In fact, 2015, the first year of the Michael administration, has certainly not brought about the change your party promised N-VA, quite the contrary. We are getting worse economically. The agreements with Europe are not being complied with. That's a big problem. We look forward to 2016, but we fear the worst.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the timing of the explanatory statement, unlike Mr Van Biesen, I am trying to do something other than listen to the New Year's concert on 1 January. It's usually a day when I'm just trying to sleep it off. I'm Party Chairman in Mechelen, possibly your future living and workshop, Mr. Van Overtveldt. As far as I am concerned, the figures do not need to be communicated on 1 January, which can be done for me on 2 January. I also share Mr Van Biesen's analysis of the lack of clarity about this. In my opinion, but I have less seniority in this committee than Mr Van Biesen, this ambiguity lasts longer than usual, and that still perpetuates a climate of uncertainty, of questions, even with a constructive opposition, which of course does not want to abuse it. Mr Van Biesen, you seemed to suggest the latter, quite wrong, of course. The uncertainty and questions are fed by the European Commission and the National Bank. In this sense, it is a good thing that we are discussing 2015 today. I would also like to join with the question to the Minister for the Budget in order to have a slightly clearer view on the expenditure side for 2015. If that can happen quickly, then it should no longer give rise to uncertainty and polemics. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps this is a little too short, but you seem to blame the European Commission for almost a lack of knowledge and information. On the other hand, of course, it is an external view which deserves appreciation. You say the difference is due to different information. Well, then we must try to eliminate that difference and ensure that the European Commission has information for its assessments, which it does not have today. So I would like to ask you if you have any plans to work things out, to eliminate the differences, to get the discussion out of the way. So much for my comments on 2015. Mr Van Overtveldt, I do not think you can blame the committee for the fact that we are talking about 2016. Sometimes I had the impression that there was a party chairman speaking, rather than a finance minister. I know that this vacancy in your party will soon be opened up and that there is already some nervousness in this regard. It is best never to settle such a vote in advance, because then it will go wrong once in a while. In fact, I was wondering why the Minister of Finance was not simply asked as treasurer of a party. That would make much more sense. Your explanation sounded very strong as a piece of party propaganda: the power of change and done with the PS era. We hear these songs all the time. Minister, I must say that there is absolutely no reason for euphoria. Among other things, the disappointing growth prospects and budgetary results should, in my opinion, require a little more restraint and modesty. The disappointing budgetary results are particularly annoying, because, of course, a great deal of effort has already been demanded from the citizens of our country. When one sees what effort still needs to be made, invoices will be rewritten to ordinary people or people who have to live on benefits. I am very concerned about that. On the budgetary path, you say that a budget in balance is and remains the government's objective. In terms of timing, you also use the timing set when the government took office. Or can we look at it with an open eye? I would also like to refer to the paragraph on the agreements made, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to read what you have said: 'Of course, it is also necessary to check whether everyone within the government is complying with their commitments.' Decreasing expenditure on a department due to an improved labour market or positive effects of the tax shift is no excuse not to honour agreements made. First of all, you are going there on the premises of Mr Wilmès. For me, it doesn't matter where Mrs Wilmès is in the room. I think that's a good place. However, the division of labour must be respected. You are making a very clear point here in the area of the Minister for the Budget. So, Mrs Wilmès, I have no choice but to ask whether you agree with Mr Van Overtveld's suggestion, in particular that a number of ministers on expenditure do not comply with the commitments. If the Minister of Finance makes statements about your boutique, I think it is logical that we should ask you about your opinion on this matter. Mr Van Overtveldt, if you make such a suggestion, you must confess to colour. If you say "a," say "b." You are actually saying here, Mr Deseyn, that there are ministers in the government who do not honour the agreements. Which one? You will now try to deny that you are making that suggestion. Let me read it again: "Department expenditure in the form of improved labour market or positive effects of the tax shift is no excuse not to honour the commitments made." What agreements are then not being complied with at the moment? I believe that this is a very logical question. I would like to invite you to take care of your own shop before you want to be a Minister for the Budget and before you want to raise a conscience for fellow Members. If today people are worried about the figures for 2016, it is because a lot of things planned on the revenue side are more than at stake. In fact, I find it strange that a minister who does not get his tax regularisation done, who has not yet completed his homework on the real estate vehicles, who is still talking to the European Commission about the diamond tax and who does not complete his homework on the caiman tax, has the ambition to be a Minister for the Budget and to be a conscience in the area of expenditure. Isn't being government treasurer enough for Johan Van Overtveldt? Is Minister of Finance not enough work for Johan Van Overtveldt? I think there's still enough work left to let you in. Mr Van Overtveldt, I would like to invite you to do, above all, on the revenue side, what has been announced. We have to see that there are still a lot of questions about this at the moment. Finally, Mr President, I would like to address you. Mr Van Biesen has suggested that this should be systematically followed up in committee. I think this is interesting and I would certainly like to support that question. Since the Minister of Finance has made a number of important political statements, I should like to hear the views of the Minister for the Budget. The Minister of Finance must also give clear wine on this, because I cannot make peace with just a suggestion. The suggestion is too strong for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u26	I was a little surprised by Mr Deseyn's speech, which stated at some point that we should save and therefore seek new income. Personally, I have a different definition of saving than looking for new income. That is, of course, what we have seen in the past legislature. Then some of them knocked on their chests saying that they had saved a lot. In reality, and I would refer again to the annual report of the National Bank, which has been mentioned here several times, the saving under the previous legislature meant an increase in primary expenditure of 1.2 % of GDP. Apparently, those were Di Rupo's savings. In order to finance this and still try to make the balance a little bit healthier, we must, of course, increase revenue. This also happened under Di Rupo: 1.7 % of additional taxes. Of course, that sounds crazy to the ordinary people, but count on it: 1.7 % of GDP for an average family amounts to EUR 2 500 extra taxes, every year. That's an extra 2 500 euros per family per year. Those were the so-called savings under Di Rupo. Compared to the extra expenditure of 1.2 % and the additional taxes of 1.7 % of GDP of that time, this year alone, we have a decrease in expenditure of 0.7 %. That's the big difference that's being made. That really is the power of change. Under Di Rupo, even with the massive tax tsunami of 1.7 %, Belgium ended up on the European criminal bench. We were with the worst students in the class. Today we finally see a big difference. Today's spending isn't rising anymore, it's falling. Taxes are also falling. I believe that we can only be satisfied with that. I am glad, Mr Van Biesen, that you like that, too. We can be satisfied with this together. That is, of course, a healthy way of working. This is a reduction in the burden, which creates jobs, this time in the private sector, and not so much in the subsidised sector, as last time. When people create jobs in the private sector, jobs that generate money, instead of jobs that cost money, they make the foundations of the state healthier. That is a lot better for the future of our children, which is also entirely in line with the stewardship that is being confessed here. I certainly share that view. Minister, we have a European objective, not only a balance in 2018, but also a long-term structural surplus of 0.75 percent. That structural surplus is necessary because, in proportion to the rest of Europe, but also simply tout court, au fond, we still have very high public debt. That high level of public debt is a big risk. We therefore need a structural surplus of 0.75 percent to control public debt and control the increased ageing costs that are coming towards us. In the meantime, the reforms we have carried out over the past year have allowed us to halve the cost of ageing. The increase in expenditure that could be expected has now been halved. In doing so, we are already making our state treasury a lot healthier. Hence the question of its impact on the 0.75 % target. Can we expect a change in this? What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u27	Finally, I would like to take the floor, since my name has been mentioned here a few times. Today we are having a debate on the 2015 budget. What's the status? That was the focus of the debate. I am concerned that the National Bank of Belgium, which is still an authority, even when it comes to the budget, writes on page 163: "With an improvement in the structural budget balance of 0.3% of GDP in 2015, Belgium is very different from the budgetary objective. This was also the case in 2014, when an improvement of the structural balance was aimed at by 0.5 %. The structural deficit then increased by 0.1 % in 2014. I also read: "Over both years together, the derogation therefore amounts to 1 percentage point of GDP," i.e. 4 billion for 2014 and 2015. One can have discussions about absolute figures, but at the moment we deviate 1% from what we had put first. The governor also said that the structural primary balance, which reflects the fundamental trend of budgetary policy, should be looked at in particular. This deteriorated in 2014 and 2015, along with 0.4% of GDP. The structural primary balance has thus deteriorated over the past two years, I read on page 162. I am particularly concerned about what will happen in the years to come. We can continue the discussion about 2016 and the years after, but in any case I do not comment on any government or government that the reorganisation in Belgium in the broad sense of the word, i.e. on the revenue and expenditure side, has partly stopped. We must stay on European course. The Minister also says that we must strive for a structural balance in 2018. The governor states that in the following years, 8 billion must be restored in order to achieve that balance. I think it is up to Parliament and a committee to worry about this. Finally, a budget debate is about figures. The structural budget deficit is therefore a problem for the following years. We do not see this in the figures of the Minister of Finance or Mrs Wilmès, as they are nominal figures. In any case, there is a structural problem in the following years. This can still be corrected, since we are at the beginning of the legislature. But it is important to know that we are not on course at the moment. There's been a quality evolution. Primary expenditure fell from 52.3 to 51.2 % of GNP. So more has been done than in previous governments, which is positive. Measures have also been taken, including in social security, in unemployment benefits, where 700 million has been saved, and in health insurance. A great deal of effort has therefore been made. On the revenue side, I can see that there is indeed a reduction in the tax burden. At the beginning of the legislature, we took a number of measures to reduce taxes. There was the index jump and income moderation. I cannot comment on the absolute figures, which I assume are the right ones. We will work with the Monitoring Committee to see what this means for 2016. However, there is a problem: the structural correction of the deficit is lagging behind the schedule, even in nominal terms. According to the National Bank, in 2015, we will have a net balance or general government deficit of EUR 11.6 billion. In 2013, this was EUR 11.4 billion. After two years, we are 200 million euros higher than in 2013. I am simply speaking on the basis of the figures. I think it is up to Parliament to put those figures on the table. We will have a discussion over the next few weeks on budgetary control and on the comments from the European Commission and the National Bank, because that is worrying. For 2016, we are talking about a new effort that should be made. According to the National Bank's calculations, it's easy to find 2 to 3 billion. So we face major challenges. The financing of the tax shift is another discussion, which we will also have over the next few years. A few months ago, I said that in order to fully finance the tax shift and achieve a structural balance in the 2018 budget, there must be a clean-up of around 8 billion. That figure has been circulating for months, and I see it now fully confirmed in the bank's annual report. The debate on 2015 must take place today on the basis of the figures. There have been a lot of elements given by the ministers, but we are structurally lagging behind what we had planned. There will also be additional problems in the following years. It is clear that the tax shift measures should not be implemented alone, which we will see in the coming months. I hope that there will be new draft laws for that. Even if it is being implemented, we still have a structural problem by 2018 because we still have 8 billion to find. I confirm what I have said about this in the past: these elements need to be addressed in Parliament. In the next few months we will have to see whether we can deal with the current expenditure and how the reform should be carried out. The taxes have been reduced by the tax shift. Some of them are elevated. We have to do that, which is an important element. Minister Wilmès is requesting a five-minute suspension. The government will then be given the floor for the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u28	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u29	Mr President, I have a number of comments to make on the comments made by the members of the committee. What struck me is that much more has been said about the path until the end of 2016, while it was intended to talk about the budgetary results of 2015. What effort should be made for 2016? I call upon you to see things as they are. The Monitoring Committee's report will be published in the first week of March. Everyone in this committee knows that this is the classic starting point for assessing matters. At least the government wants to leave it to see where it stands, where it is going and what it still has to do on the way. No one denies the need for an important additional effort. Everyone agrees with that. In accordance with the government agreement, revenue, expenditure and structural reforms will have to be looked at. The two sentences to which certain committee members seem to be so heavy are no more than a paraphrasing of the coalition agreement, Mr Calvo, in which there is indeed talk of revenue, expenditure and the importance of structural reforms. I do nothing more or less than call for revenue, but also expenditure and structural reforms to be looked at in the appropriate way and in accordance with the government agreement. What structural efforts have been made and how should we assess them? There are quite a few figures circulating, such as a nominal deficit, a structural deficit, a general government deficit, a deficit for entity I and so on. When it comes to the interventions that have taken place to put public finances in order in the long term, page 31 of the annual report of the National Bank of Belgium very clearly indicates that the interventions so far by this government halve the ageing costs for the next 40 years from 4.2 % to 2.1 % of GDP. This is more than EUR 8 billion in structural interventions, in particular reducing the cost of ageing. Those are not my words, but those of the National Bank of Belgium. I believe that we can continue to talk about such figures for a long time to come, but it is clear that this government is pursuing a policy of control in terms of expenditure which will have an impact on economic growth this year, and I shall come back to this later, but also in the much longer term. In that sense, it can be called almost superstructured. There were several comments on the attitude that Europe could adopt towards the MTO. Mrs Wilmès will certainly say more about this. Everyone can see in the European reporting on the different countries that the entity Europe is dealing with, that the importance of structural efforts being made has an important impact on the MTO. I would also like to mention the fundamental difference in the way in which a reduction in the budget deficit has been achieved. During the period before this government there were increasing expenditure and even more increasing revenue; now there are declining expenditure and declining revenue. This is a very different dynamic, also in view of the long-term growth prospects of the economy. As far as the difference between short-term and long-term economic performance is concerned, as I have always pointed out here in committee from day one, when we are pursuing fiscal policy such as that of the government, inevitably, in the short term, we have an element that weighs negatively on growth. But we cannot deny, I hope, that we do not, that Belgium is a small, very open economy. It is therefore imperative to be competitive. If we are not, we will lose on all the land, including the purchasing power of households, for example. It is obvious that we had a handicap in terms of competitiveness, especially in terms of relative wage costs. We have solved this with, among other things, the tax shift and index jump that have weighed on purchasing power. But, as projected by the Plan Office and the National Bank in a rather modest manner, these measures will bear long-term results in terms of improved competitiveness and thus substantial expansion for our businesses. At the level of revenue, of course, a number of comments have been made in my direction. As indicated in the previous argument, the final result of the 2015 revenue, except for a small amount, is still in a positive direction for the time being, fully in line with what was drawn up in the course of the fiscal checks on revenue. There are indeed a number of projects that have been discussed on the revenue side. There is the diamond tax, which was not registered last year or this year for a very good reason. We are in full discussion with Europe to get the green light for this tax. After all, the aim is to prevent what has fallen on our roof over the last month, in particular Europe's verdict on excess profit rulings. This could have been avoided perfectly if this project had been presented to Europe at the time of its launch. Perhaps we should have waited a little longer, but at least we could have worked in more serenity. Now the boomerang has returned. I want to avoid that with the diamond tax. We will continue to consult with Europe until we reach an agreement. At that time, we will be showing up with the diamond tax in income. I think this is a great sense of responsibility. As far as the caiman tax is concerned, last year's project is a completely new kind of tax. In fact, at the end of last year we strengthened this with the help of the opposition. It is a very short day to ask in February how many millions that will bring. We will try to calculate that as best we can. You know that we have received calculations and projections from the FPS Finance at various stages. We will try to follow that as closely as possible in the coming period. Questions have also been asked about the redesign. The redesign is the prototypic example of an exercise that will have to be made by the whole government. I repeat that the finality of the redesign is to make a number of adjustments to the functioning of the public administration, thus increasing the efficiency of the whole with regard to citizens and expenditure. It is clear that this effort will have to be made by the whole of the government. For questions about the results of the tax shift, it seems to me to be a very short day. The tax shift dates partly from 2015, partly from 2016, and is further rolled out by 2019. These are measures which we in the government are absolutely certain will have positive effects on economic development, employment and, of course, on public finances. It will, of course, take some time before all the measures that have been taken, which are and will still be taken, are effective. For example, they will have an effect on the labour market, both on the demand side and on the supply side. At a certain point in time I heard the strange remark on corporate tax that the increase in corporate tax was described as a negative evolution. I believe that I have just indicated that there is renewed enthusiasm in the business world, that there is renewed opportunity to do business which is profitable and which, in other words, generates more tax revenue. If we continue to frame this properly, it will lead to investment and job creation in various areas. Mr Laaouej, you asked a question about the income tax. I would like to reiterate the issue of thinking properly: on the basis of the sums collected, the amount of personal income tax in 2015 would be -4,6 billion euros in ESA terms, while the budgetary objective was -5 billion euros. So there's a surplus of 380 million. I would add that in 2015 there will eventually be about 40 000 more attacks than in 2014. The budgetary surplus in question, 380 million, is explained by a shift in the nature of the returns submitted. An increase in the number of pre-filled declarations has been noted, while an additional delay has been granted to the declarations made by man-datarissen via Tax-on-web. This has indeed strongly influenced the positive evolution of the ESA results of this item.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u30	Mr President, a number of points have been raised. I will begin with the questions that have been asked about the macroeconomic forecasts of the Federal Planning Office. I would remind you that this is the first preparatory stage of the budgetary conclave, which is essential. The idea is no more or less, but it is important to set the main macroeconomic parameters of Belgium so that they can be used by the different administrations to adapt the federal government's revenue and expenditure. Having done so, the second preparatory stage is the publication in early March by the Monitoring Committee of its report, which will provide the full update of revenue and expenditure. It is only on the basis of this report that the government will base its budgetary conclave. This report will identify and assess the efforts that may or may not be made to achieve the objectives. If so, it is at that time, and not before, that the means to achieve this will be determined by the government as a whole. At the general level, what can be said about these macroeconomic forecasts? In general, the Federal Bureau of the Plan confirms that overall growth remains stable, rising to 1.2% instead of the 1.3% we estimated for the initial 2016; 1.3% is also the growth figure taken up by the European Commission. In any case, it can be estimated that at the level of the figures that were taken to make the initial 2016 budget, we are not far away. A lot of things have been compared, the figures of the BNB, the figures of the European Commission often, the evolution of the structural balance, the evolution of the nominal balance, all the figures are used according to the argument we are trying to make. It's human, but I understand that it confuses the message a bit. However, I would like to point out that the European Commission may have gone further. Mr Dispa, you have taken the trouble of preparing a question on this. The differences between the estimates of this government and the European Commission are of several kinds. I'd like to give them some details. The first thing is to consider the time frames that separate the forecasting exercises. For the 2016 initial budget, for example, the government is based on the macroeconomic forecasts made by the Federal Planning Office in September, while the European Commission's current forecasts were made in February. I'm coming to the other point. The world is changing, the economic environment is changing. The consequence of this timing difference is that the economic scenario is a little different. It has components that contribute to growth, which are also different. Another point that diverges between what we had planned in the 2016 initial and what the European Commission is saying now, and in addition to the differences that I have just expressed, is the difference in the models used. We don't use the same models. Thirdly, as has already been said, the European Commission has its own reading of the measures taken by the government and their performance. It has its own estimate of the output gap, which is a key variable for moving from the nominal balance to the structural balance, and its own estimate of the one-off. In addition to this, if my information is correct, the fact of looking at the measures taken by a government in a different way is not a Belgian specialty. It does not govern any particular relationship between the European Commission and Belgium. The European Commission has said, in this committee, it seems to me that the fact that it considers that part of the measures is not specific to Belgium at all. In order to have a consistent assessment for all countries, it takes a rather general approach. What I have just mentioned is all that could explain a significant difference in the nominal balance. But once the latter is determined, although it is different and we explained why, we have to calculate the structural balance. So we know the base is different. On this basis, we move to the structural balance with, again, a different methodological approach with regard to output gap, one-off etc. I think this is fundamental because we are always comparing the Commission, the BNB, the figures of the government. There are timing differences and different approaches. That explains a lot. Many questions have also been asked about the fiscal trajectory, which is the result of a collective government decision. In December, we again voted on a 2016 budget with multi-year forecasts to strike a balance in 2018. I confirm to you that the achievement of this objective is truly collective work. As for the European Commission, it is not only interested in the federal government – let us not misunderstand. She is interested in the figures of the "Belgium house". In this regard, I would remind you that every year we are invited to review our stability programme. We have not yet undertaken this exercise, but we will have to close it by 30 April on the basis of medium-term forecasts which have not yet come out. This route must be developed between entity 1 and entity 2. Again, it is a team work in which everyone has to take responsibility. As far as MTO is concerned, the European Commission may revise it at any time. The aim is for the State to ensure the long-term sustainability of its public finances. The cost of aging is found in the components of this MTO. We can imagine that the structural reforms undertaken by the government in this regard affect this system, but we do not have a hand on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u31	Mr President, I am really not convinced by the demonstration of the two ministers. They do not answer the fundamental question I asked them, namely the reconciliation between their deficit estimates, which depart from the estimates made by the National Bank and the European Commission, and the commitments made at European level. At this point, you still need to find $1.6 billion in 2015 and $2.9 billion in 2016, more than $4 billion in both years. There is a catch-up of more than 4 billion euros to make at the next conclave if you want to keep up with your trajectory. It is up to you to lead the federal government's boat as you understand it, but I'm just saying that at some point you will be caught up in the facts. I understand that you do not want to come out of the woods now and be precise about the reconciliation between the revalued deficits and the commitments made at European level, but you will have to put black on white the way you think you can do it. We've turned a lot around the pot, the Minister of Finance has taught us a lesson in economics. I have already explained how much I disagreed with him, but this is not the place for it. We see ourselves here to talk about the budget, the tax revenues, the expenses and the trajectories. The Budget Minister, for her part, did not answer my question about the determination of deviations from European commitments. So we still don't see any clearer. We still do not know where we are going today, although it would have been possible to tell us what efforts they would have to make on the basis of the commitments made in April 2015 and on the basis of current government estimates, which are more optimistic than those of the Plan Office or the National Bank. I am therefore not convinced by the ministers' demonstrations, but I thank them nevertheless for providing us with their answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u32	Mr President, I listened carefully to the ministers' replies. Obviously, you can't convince the whole majority. It is therefore not surprising that the opposition itself is not more convinced. The discussions that have taken place are still somewhat worrying about the differences in analysis within the majority, the initial diagnosis and the objectives to be achieved within a few years. I would like to stress this because if you want to have a credible speech about the outside world of the majority - I am not talking about the opposition, but about the European bodies, for example - your speech would be more credible if it were more coherent and homogeneous. But obviously, there are important differences of opinion. In relation to what the Minister of Finance explained to us, in summation, you tell us basically that for 2015, it is not very serious, the differences are minimal, but that by 2060, everything will be fine! You use the projections of the Ageing Committee to say that by 2060 the cost of ageing will be halved and that this could have a positive effect on the medium-term target set by the European Union. I want to have confidence with you in these projections until 2060, but honestly, that's not what will reassure us. For me, what really matters is the 2018 deadline. In relation to this, the Minister of Budget, you have been more specific in confirming the desire to achieve balance by 2018. I ask only to believe you, but if you really want to do this, you must not minimize, as you collectively feel like you do, the gaps that appear as early as 2015. I am not talking about methodological deviations - thanks for the explanations about the divergences with regard to the European Commission - but as early as 2015, structurally, the differences are significant. You yourself, in your speech, made differences between the latest estimates of the general presentation of the 2016 budget and the estimates of the European Commission and the National Bank. But while the National Bank sets a minimum balance at 2.8%, you reach 2.7%; you proudly say that this is not much. But you did not mention the figure for the structural deficit estimated by the National Bank, which is 2.5 for 2015. Compared to the government's objective of 2, there is a gap that, as early as 2015, is really problematic. I think that if you want to reach the 2018 target, I personally agree with it as well and, from the beginning, I encourage the Budget Ministers to keep up, do not minimize the first gaps that appear as early as 2015 because I fear that the gaps will only increase and are impossible to catch up. The year 2018 is in two years. Honestly, without reopening the debate, when you know all the uncertainties about revenue for 2016 and subsequent years, there's still something to worry about. I think that within two years, there will come a time when you will come back to us telling us that the parameters have changed and that the context was such that, in the end, it may not be 2018 but later. I take note of your renewed statements. This is not a surprise on your part, but you confirm that the government's collective commitment is the balance in 2018. Until then, the results will or will not make you right. When you say that this is collective work, and I will finish by that, I can only subscribe to it, and at the same time you yourself have pointed out, in your speech, the gap at the level of local authorities. You said that in the analysis of the FPS Finances there are 376 million, if I have noted correctly, that are attributable to the local authorities, even if the National Bank has a smaller estimate. Then be consistent with yourself and ensure that the decisions taken by the federal government do not have a negative impact on local authorities. I do not want to reopen the debate but the impact of the tax shift on local authorities, we know that it is not neutralised at all. It is not necessary both to take measures that negatively impact local authorities and then to say that the local authorities ultimately contribute to the remoteness of the starting points. It would be a double game that wouldn't be very correct. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to say to confirm the concern you have expressed yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u33	Mr President, I would just like to say to the two ministers that it is probably very nice to present us with nice figures by chanting "Everything is fine, Madame La Marquise", but that it is not the PTB that imposed a European budgetary gendarme. We were not quite in favour of the TSCG (Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance) and other such texts. You who have signed them with two hands, try to take into account what the European Commission is asking for and stop presenting only your conception of the figures. Generally speaking, some governments are seen as saving the population, while others are considered to be fiscally sound. I have the impression that this one not only does not save the population, far from it, but also seeks a little bit of budgetary rigour. If tax revenues are lower than expected, this means that the efforts that will be required in the form of cuts in public services will be even greater than expected. It's not thin yet! I find this a rather worrying situation. I'm going to give you a little bit, Mr. Minister of Finance: you could start by getting the money from the excess profit rules. This corresponds more or less to what is lacking in VAT and personal tax revenue. That would be a first way to bail out the crates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic344x.u34	(...)
