ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u1	Mr Minister, before asking my question, I must say something. I would very much like to express my admiration and respect for the calmness that you are keeping in the current difficult situation. I saw and heard you yesterday after the invasion of your cabinet. Your reaction was very stylish and classy. I had to say that for a moment and may also be said. This is not my question, but your response deserves respect. Mr Minister, I now come to my own question. I don't have to draw you any more. You know better than anyone. In the meantime, your employees have been able to experience it. I'm talking about the strike that entered her fourth week. We've seen and heard the media. Last week we also heard the prison directors at RTBf, who made it very clear that a lot of sick notes are being used. According to the words of one of the directors, 207 out of 650 employees are in Lantin. He said: When such a ruling is made, it requires two things. Either it is an incorrect accusation, which must then be checked, because the people must be restored to their honour; or the accusation is correct and then it must be checked. Control is due nodig. Apparently, the sick notes are being used. We see that in many French-speaking prisons today there would be twice as many sick people as otherwise. It is said that these are not my words, but a quote from a trade unionist, that in this way the sick strikers can retain their full remuneration and the trade union cash thus remains well spent and taxpayers' money. Those are harsh statements. Furthermore, Minister, we note that the people concerned are apparently well cured during the weekend. There is a song: Kortjakje is always sick, in the middle of the week but not on Sundays. Apparently, that applies here. Those involved have suddenly healed. Of course, other premiums and other rewards apply on weekends. It is striking that this led to more guards coming to work in Vorst last weekend, which meant that fewer police were needed to replace the missing staff. Within the prison walls, even lists of doctors who easily write sick notes would go around. Several prison directors also indicated that the control doctors would be very lax. The whole system is, as I said, encouraged by the unionists. That's how their union cash stays fed, as they express it themselves. I have a number of questions about that. I am aware that this is a large number of figures and that my questions may not be fully answered in that period of time. How many members of the prisons where there are currently detentions are currently staying at home with a sick note? Can you give me a percentage of the total staff of these prisons and, if possible, per prison? We already know Lantin's grade. The board itself announced this in the media last weekend. How many staff come to work on weekends compared to the weekdays, relative to the total staff and per prison? How many prison staff are officially on strike and don't use a sick note? So who does it the right way? For that answer, too, I would have liked to know the ratio to the total workforce. How many and in which prisons should the police stop showing up on weekends, because there are enough guards who want to come to work? If all sick staff were to arrange their absence not through sickness but through strike and strike compensation, what would that mean for the total amount of wages not to be paid by the Belgian State? How much does the Belgian State have to pay in wages, because an illness note is improperly used? Can you tell me to what extent controls are carried out by control doctors as a result of the sudden disease peak? That happens via Medex, which is starting to become a log system. But it's interesting to know if there's a checkup. Will there be any withdrawal of disease notes on the basis of the medical check-up? Do you have any figures on that? I realize that this is delicate, all the more so because you are in the middle of the union talks that you want to give all the opportunities. Nor is it my intention to stir it up, but I would like to hear your view on absenteeism and the abuse of notes to spare a trade unionist's ruling on the union's strike cases. Will you take measures to put an end to this practice? Do you have any idea today how the controls could be increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u2	Mrs De Wit, in view of the fact that my administration is busy and the administrative staff is currently thinly dotted, I cannot give you an answer to all your questions. As far as your first question is concerned, I cannot at present provide you with consolidated figures of absences due to illness during the current strike. As for your second question, the number of prisons is normally lower during weekends than in the week. Generally speaking, about half of the security staff working during the week also works on a weekend. As far as your third question on strikers is concerned, I cannot yet give you definitive figures. Fourthly, with regard to minimum occupancy thresholds in prisons, there is no difference between weekly and weekend occupancy. Apart from a few shifts spread across several prisons, permanent assistance from the police or the army was needed. There is no correlation between week- or weekend days. As far as your fifth question is concerned, on the basis of the checks carried out by the medical examiners at Medex, I cannot put a figure on that. These data show that the vast majority of absences are medically justified. Sixthly, Medex carried out checks last weekend on the figures that were spread around absenteeism last week. Today, not all the results of the checks are yet known. Seventh, we will examine with Medex how the controls can be adjusted during very difficult periods, such as long-term strikes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u3	I understand my question is a little early. You will not blame me if I write them again in writing to receive the correct figures. We know there's a absenteeism and it's higher than usual. It is clear that controls are needed. The prison directors brought that up in the media last weekend. If that is true and if it is true what the trade unionist says is that this way the trade union cash will be preserved and there will be no loss of wages, then something must be done about it. I have every respect for the right to strike, but not at the expense of the taxpayer. Cessation is a conscious choice and there are consequences. I very much hope, Minister, that the investigation shows that there is a collective mistake and that the song by Kortjakje does not apply here. This would make social dialogue much easier. In the other case, it must have the necessary consequences. I'm counting on you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, this Friday, during a period of strike and unrest in prisons, the government confirmed the plan, as part of its Masterplan prisons, to build a prison on the site of the former NATO base in Sugny on the territory of the municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois, in the extreme south of the province of Namur. This area of Sugny is an hour and a half drive from Namur, an hour drive from Dinant - the nearest big city - and does not benefit from any public transport, especially by train, of any direct access road! It is a very beautiful area to do tourism. Of course, people in the region have the right to work and to benefit from economic development which, it seems to me, must be based more on tourism and relations with France, which is close by, than by setting up a prison. I've already told you this in a non-suspecting time after the first announcements and I'll tell you again with so much conviction. I would like to see the decision taken, your clarification as to the reasons which led to Sugny's choice, the consideration of accessibility issues (workers, families) and the level of investment to be made for the construction of the prison in Sugny. Minister, can you tell me on what basis this site was selected? What criteria have led, beyond the proximity of any member of the influential majority, to the selection of the site of the former NATO base in Sugny? How long has this trail been under consideration? Has a study been carried out or will it be carried out to consider the operating costs of a prison in Sugny for the SPF Justice, including the costs of worker travel and transfer of detainees? What prior consultation has been provided with regard to this choice, particularly with regard to judges and lawyers? I've heard them say something before, maybe like you. They're talking about a lot of things right now. Have the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice sought the expertise of an official body to identify in the province of Namur a land likely to host a prison? If so, which body is it concerned and how was it chosen? Very competent consultative bodies exist, such as the Economic Bureau of Namur Province (BEP). When will a feasibility study be completed? What is the estimated cost of building the infrastructure? What would be the architectural and energy characteristics? When would it be finalized if the project was confirmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u5	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, last Friday, the Kern gave its agreement in principle on a new adapted masterplan, Masterplan III. It is therefore an agreement in principle whose overall vision is based on four pillars: the construction of new prisons; the extension of existing prisons with projects in Bourg-Léopold, Ypres, Lantin, Verviers and Vresse-sur-Semois; the renovation of existing prisons with the Merksplas project; a differentiated detention policy with additional places in the open establishments of Ruiselede and Jamioulx, as well as through transitional houses. Finally, the Masterplan must offer a suitable infrastructure for each prisoner interned with, on the one hand, a number of projects and extensions in the existing care circuit and, on the other hand, the construction of three centres of legal psychiatry (CPL) in Alost, Paifve and Walloon Brabant. With regard to the prison of Vresse-sur-Semois (Sugny), I can communicate in brief the following. Whenever an establishment is to be built, it is sought with the Régie or through local administrations which sites can be taken into consideration. They are examined on the basis of criteria such as size, shape, degree of inclination, etc. The Régie des Bâtiments can of course give technical details. In view of the situation of the place, the choice would be for a detention facility and not for a prison, which would result in fewer trips. All this is now being translated into a concrete dossier which will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers with details and a timetable. We must wait for the approval of the Council of Ministers to know also what form the implementation and financing will take. Finally, in connection with your question concerning Achêne and Sambreville, I can inform you that these two leads have been abandoned for the following reasons. As far as Achêne is concerned, the project had been defined for young people but, following the last reform of the State, the competence on young people has been transferred to the Communities and the project has therefore become obsolete. For Sambreville, this project was abandoned because of the sanitation costs that were too high for this land.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u6	Minister, you are presenting us with a global vision of the Masterplan prisons; I could have addressed it. I chose to be interested in a prison in a province that I know well and I maintain that the place is wrong because of its remoteness. I have the impression that Friday's communication is a "safe-who-can" communication and that choice is not a choice of reason but rather a partisan choice. In fact, you have not answered two fundamental questions: what prior consultation with the courts? What is the estimate of the cost of operating such a remote prison? It seems to me that these are essential elements to be taken into account. I hope that reason prevails over particular interests. You say that the land of Achêne is available since it was bought by the Régie des Bâtiments and that the federal state is no longer competent to lock up for young people. This is proof that there is land available, closer to road infrastructure and collective mobility. I am convinced that in the province of Namur, if only you were to question the ad hoc bodies, there are other places that would be more appropriate. I have nothing against the inhabitants of Vresse-sur-Semois. That's the opposite! I wish them to develop economic activities but they must be in line with the interests of the citizens and it seems to me here that the choice envisaged by the government is not relevant. I say "considered" because I rely on your common sense to challenge this part of the Masterplan prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in his 2015 report that we have just received, the Federal Ombudsman once again points to the problem of telephone charges in prison. This issue had been the subject of a recommendation in his previous report and it did not appear to have led to concrete measures to address it. The 2015 report therefore recalls that it is imperative to "reduce the telephone rates charged to prisoners in prisons to a level that can be considered outside prisons as being in conformity with the market. In the case of deviations, the elements leading to them and the manner in which they are accounted for shall be transparent." The tariff currently in effect would correspond to the Belgacom tariff in effect on 12 December 2002. And, for international calls, it's even more obvious. The rate set is in line with the rate set by Belgacom in 2002 in public cabins, depending on the destination. For a telephone conversation to a gsm at full hours (a weekday from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.), the inmate pays €0.23 for 18 seconds. The inmate therefore pays 7.67 euros for a 10-minute conversation. This tariff system is completely outdated and encourages the fraudulent introduction of gsm in prison. Already in 2013 the Federal Ombudsman told the Prisons DG (EPI) that these tariffs were obsolete and too high in comparison with the current tariffs on the market, especially since the same DG should in principle be able to negotiate a preferential price for prisons since it is, given the large number of prisoners, an important customer. Following this recommendation, DG PPE announced that it was planning to launch a public procurement in 2014 to renovate the entire telephone system in all prisons. Questioned on the subject by my colleague, Mrs Khattabi, in October 2014, you also stated that "if the renewal of the telephone system were to lead to a reduction in telephone rates, however, full equivalence with the tariffs in force on the market will not be possible". Mr Minister, like the Federal Ombudsman, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm today's telephone rates in our old prisons and the fact that the new prisons benefit from a more advantageous rate? What is the status of the project to launch a public procurement for the renovation of the telephone system? If it has not yet been launched, why? If it's in progress, what's the expected timing? What steps do you intend to take in this Parliament to respond to the Federal Ombudsman's recommendation in this regard? Why is it not possible to match telephone rates with market rates? While it is clear that a prison communication system has to meet specific conditions that potentially have financial implications, why is it not possible for the State to take over this additional cost, at least for the most deprived prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u8	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, the rates currently in effect differ depending on whether they are old or new prisons. For the former, national calls to a fixed line cost €0.23 for 50 seconds or 100 seconds depending on peak hours (8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday to Friday) or off-peak hours (7 p.m. to 8 a.m. Monday to Friday and all day on weekends and holidays). Telephone calls to a gsm actually cost €0.23 for 18 seconds in peak hours and 36 seconds in off-peak hours. For the second, the rates are those specified above reduced by 10%. The first step of the project to renovate the telephone system is to cable prisons in order to allow access to the telephone from each cell. This project is now under way. The yard of Turnhout prison ends and that of Lantin prison is under way. The construction sites of the prisons of Bruges and Nivelles will continue to be launched and executed in 2016. The schedule is expected to be completed by 2018 at the latest. By the end of 2017, almost 50 per cent of the prison population will benefit from this new access. However, in order to make the project a reality, a public procurement for telephony should be launched and awarded. The final stages of completion of this market are currently under way. A publication should be possible in the coming months. With cabling allowing telephones from each cell and, above all, the award of a national telephone contract, the aim is to reduce the cost of communications to a rate close to that present in the market, which will meet the request of the Federal Ombudsman. A prison communication system must effectively meet specific conditions that have an impact on cost. The system is complex due to the high number of users (more or less 11,000), and also has to meet security requirements. The acquisition, maintenance and replacement of equipment also have a significant cost. So the whole thing has an impact on the prices charged. At present, no budget is available to allow the State to cover the additional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the fact that the facilities are in progress and that by the end of 2017, 50% of the prison population will have access to these new telephone equipment. We will follow this file closely. We note, however, that there is a significant difference, especially for the most disadvantaged prisoners, in relation to extremely difficult conditions in prison. I will certainly come back to this matter in the near future. Finally, we will pay attention to the Ombudsman's opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u10	Mr President, Minister, in mid-April, the press announced the arrival of a first prisoner in the new wing specially adapted to accommodate radicalized prisoners in Ittre prison. The creation of this wing, like the one announced at Hasselt prison, is strongly criticized both inside and outside prisons. While the principle may seem interesting, its implementation raises many questions. The first question is, of course, the question of means. Some of the 400 million promised by the government following the Paris attacks should be allocated to prisons, particularly for the supervision of these specialized wings. According to trade unions, this budget should allow 54 people to be hired for supervision and 18 for psychosocial services. But prison officers point to a chronic shortage of staff that cannot be overcome by these few commitments. Another aspect that raises the question is the training of staff who will be assigned to follow-up on inmates placed in these wings. Finally, there is the question of the choice of inmates who will be oriented towards these wings, an aspect that you have hardly explained so far. Minister, exactly what part of the 400 million has been allocated to prisons? Which prisons have they benefited from? What has this money been or will be allocated to? What training have been provided or will be provided to prison officers on these two wings for radicalized prisoners? Similarly, what about the training of psychosocial workers who will take care of these detainees? Will a specific programme be put in place? By whom and on the basis of which criteria will prisoners moved to these wings be chosen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u11	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, from the interdepartmental provision to the general expenditure budget, EUR 5.4 million has been allocated to projects on radicalisation in prisons. This budget is transferred to the Justice budget according to the concrete implementation of the actions. Currently, a transfer request is being reviewed by the Finance Inspectorate and has been filed with the FPS Budget. This is mainly an increase in staff per 100 full-time staff, estimated at 3.3 million, 1.2 million operating costs and 0.9 million investment costs. Of the 100 additional staff, 36 are said to be additional prison officers. Other full-time work involves different functions of coordination, psychosocial intervention and training. Prison officers, psychosocial workers and management have all received specific training focused on the management of inmates who pose a significant risk in terms of radicalization. For prison officers, the training addressed the plan of action on radicalization, radicalization, the basic precepts of Islam, the processes leading to radicalization and change to action and the symbols associated with these radical movements. Practical exercises take place in the simulation wing. The training also focused on non-violent communication and conflict management. For the others, the training focused, among other things, on how to identify problematic situations of radicalisation and violent extremism and how to intervene optimally and report on them. As a reminder, the action plan against radicalisation in prisons of 11 March 2015 provides that the reception of radicalised prisoners is based on a two-fold strategy. In practical terms, therefore, there is no choice for a systematic concentration of radicalized prisoners. These prisoners are initially integrated as much as possible into the ordinary sections, as it will be considered that the radicalization process can be controlled. It is only when prisoners pose a serious risk of radicalization that they can be referred to a specialized section, with the aim of preventing them from engaging in proselytism and spreading their ideas. Radicalized prisoners must be screened by staff of the central psychosocial service, trained for this purpose. This selection is made, inter alia, on the basis of information from the intelligence and security services and the local prison administration. The central psychosocial service then forwards a report with advice to the regional management via the local management. The final decision on placement in the Specialized Section is the responsibility of the Regional Directorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have noted your explanations for the budgets. However, the selection of inmates for posting on different wings is unclear. In any case, we will ask for an assessment of these radical wings, the policies that are carried out there and the results achieved. It will be interesting to conduct an evaluation at the end of the year and perhaps even before if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u13	Mr President, I have a number of general questions. I was actually hoping that I could have withdrawn my question and not come to you today because you would have come out yesterday with an agreement. Then we could have gone back to normal business and solved the misery for the prison director, the willing and the inmates, especially after the sad news that has reached us this morning. But now we're going into our fourth week, Minister. The meeting's gonna take place tonight. You may not be able to say anything about it, but I am still taking advantage of the serenity that prevails in a committee to find out what the state of the trade union talks are and why there is still no agreement. Why do people insist on their position on something that is acceptable to the Flemish trade unions, but not to the French-speaking ones? Which are the biggest stumbling blocks? Perhaps we can help think, although I assume you know very well yourself. But thinking out of the box can sometimes be useful. What initiatives are you going to take to put an end to the strike? As I mentioned last week in plenary, there is an old law which provides that people can be brought up in the public interest. Today I hear that there is no legal basis, but there are people who have done it for you. Mayors of cities applied the measure when public health was compromised. With regard to the dead person who fell in Lantin's prison today, there may have been too little supervision to avoid this happening, regardless of whether the strikes have anything to do with it. Perhaps this could have been avoided. In my view, there is no longer any discussion about the danger to health and safety. Moreover, we also had a very coincidental discussion of the Federal Ombudsman's annual report in the Petitions Committee this afternoon. This service was visited in the autumn and describes in its report the state of sanitation, the provision of meals, but above all the deafening noise of disgruntled prisoners in their cells, which may overwhelm any distress call. That is also a consequence of the situation. I've been to prisons myself, like Prince, and if I remember, I smell the smell again. I know that living and working conditions are poignant. I can hardly imagine there's nothing we can do. I thought I'd pitch my idea, but no one's gone into that. But perhaps in the meantime your cabinet has examined whether there is any possibility of doing something about these inhumane situations. It is clear that the safety and health of both those who stay and those who work there must be guaranteed. Then I'm talking about the guards who didn't strike, about the prison director who moves heaven and earth to meet the basic needs, and about the police and military who are here today and watch it all happen. If there is anything we can do about it, we must try. This is unrelated to the fact that I wish you every success tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u14	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, yesterday I sat together with the unions of prison staff for the seventh time since the start of the strike. On Friday 6 May, I submitted to the trade unions a protocol of agreement that all trade unions would defend with their members. The ACV and the ACOD have received an agreement from their members. This is not enough for the members of the other trade unions. The French-speaking trade unions and the VSOA are asking about the filling of the staff frameworks set out in the 2014 staff plan and a halt to the rationalisation exercise, for the rest of the legislative period. I can't go into this, as such. I will continue to negotiate with the trade unions in order to reach an agreement that is positive for all and represents progress towards the past. As for your third question, the 1939 law was passed to deal with staff shortages in wartime. This does not seem to me to be the right context. It is true that I will continue to negotiate with the government with the trade unions in order to settle a guaranteed service by the end of this year. I have expressed this wish repeatedly and once again clearly to the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. What is also apparent from the ombudsmen's report is that the protocol 351, which is actually intended to avoid wild strikes, is insufficient. We will therefore need more. I also heard Mr Dudal yesterday. I found the serenity of that man striking, to be honest, and I think he has also said some very sensible things. Even more staff is carrying water to the sea. There really needs to be a different way of working. People are trying to do this. If these are the demands, I'm afraid we'll be doing a long time. You say the law of 1939 deals with times of war. Of course, the law came into being in a different context, but the images I saw yesterday and the brutality with which a cabinet was invaded seem to me to indicate a certain time of war. People are attacking politics. It's more than just arguing. There's a lot of damage done. This is, of course, on a very different level than in 1939, fortunately. Yet the images seemed to me to be a form of wartime. I've become quiet and freaked out by the cheering to break the door open. I will continue to seek a solution because if we do not get out through negotiations, something else will be needed. I am thinking of the minimum service as one of the options and rather today than tomorrow. I believe that it has been shown that this needs to be done. Good luck tonight, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u16	Minister, during an exchange of views a few months ago in the Committee on the Interior on the police's core tasks, the issue of assistance to bailiffs was raised by the police. Minister Jambon has said that systematic assistance to bailiffs should be abolished by the police and he refers to you, the Minister of Justice, who would be preparing a legislative initiative to adapt the Court's Code on systematic assistance to bailiffs. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is it true that a legislative initiative is being prepared? If so, can you lift a hint of the veil?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u17	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as part of the core task plan for the police, it was indeed agreed to reduce systematic assistance by the police of the bailiff. Of course, the right to appeal to police assistance by the bailiff remains fully valid. In order to bring down systemic debt securities to the extent necessary and requested where necessary, a more thorough exchange of information between the police and the court bailiff concerned is necessary so that, on the basis of this information, the court bailiff can make a correct assessment of the need for assistance. In order to structure and, where possible, computerize this exchange of information, it was agreed that the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs and the Home Office would draw up a protocol. Discussions are under way on this subject. It was agreed that, as soon as the protocol was completed, it would be considered whether a legislative amendment would be useful or necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u19	Minister, the law that the family court brought into force also created the chambers of amicable settlement, well over a year and a half ago. In those chambers of amicable settlement, the parties may at any stage of the dispute seek to reach an agreement, accompanied by a magistrate. In this way, the legislator sought to re-evaluate the role of the judge-reconciliator. The order of a judge is to forward the parties to mediators or ultimately to decide in a dispute. Now that this law has been in force for a year and a half, I would like to ask you the following. In the meantime, has there been an evaluation of the chambers of amicable settlement in the family courts? At the beginning of October, in your reply to a number of questions, you referred to the differences between the courts. Can you now tell me how many cases have been dealt with by the chambers of amicable settlement, indicating the result? Are the chambers of amicable settlement mainly directly understood by the parties, or do they function mainly after referral? How is the settlement order executed by the magistrate in question? Is the Magistrate's attitude passive, in the sense of approving an agreement reached, or active, by his own accord? Finally, can the rooms of friendly settlement also hear children? Is the report made of that interview confidential or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u20	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, on the basis of the information I received from the College of Hoven and Courts, I can answer the following. The rooms of friendly settlement seem to be working well. A large part of the cases that come before these chambers are closed with an amicable settlement. However, no formal evaluation has yet been completed. One remark is that only 3 or 4 cases can be dealt with during the session of a Chamber of Friendly Settlement, at least 45 minutes per case. In the other chambers, which are not intended for amicable settlement, an average of 20 cases per hearing can be obtained, so that only part can be placed before the chambers of amicable settlement. Figures from the Support Service of the College of Hoven and Courts are not yet available, for technical reasons. The rooms of friendly settlement are taken after referral by the family rooms. The magistrates have followed a specialized training course on friendly solutions. The precise implementation is the responsibility of the magistrate and will depend, inter alia, on the specificity of the files. No figures are available on the equivalence ratio versus active settlements. As a general rule, minors shall not be heard for the rooms of amicable settlement. They are heard by the family chambers at the hearing or outside, depending on the decision of the magistrate and the availability of the magistrate and the Registrar. I have already answered the question of adding the report to the legal file. I am very aware that the development and further strengthening of the right to hear must be a difficult balancing exercise between the rights of the child on the one hand and the rights of parents on the other. Although the concrete assessment of this right of hearing falls within the jurisdiction of the court itself, it is necessary to establish a clear and child-friendly framework within which minors can speak freely and be heard. The fact that a minor knows that his parents can get the report may lead to him not speaking freely. It is also for this reason that this issue is being discussed in the working group dedicated to the family court and which has to address several such questions. This working group is composed of various actors in the field, the desks, the child rights commissioner, the Supreme Court of Justice and the administration. The administration will then analyse the various suggestions and opinions and, if necessary, translate them into a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u22	Question No 11523 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I tabled my question a few days before the prison guards' demonstration. It does not, therefore, deal with the course of this demonstration, which could be debated. It relates to the fact that this strike has been going on for many days now. Now, obviously, no outcome is on the horizon. So you seem to be obstinating to show intransigence. Minister, when are you going to hear the demands of the prison officers? Has the government decided or decided not to hear them? Media debates sometimes seem to obscure the situation. But the prison officers on strike know very well what they want. Mr. Michel Jacobs of CGSP recalled earlier on the radio that prison officers wish to return to the 2014 frame. This is a very clear claim. How do you react to their claims and, in particular, to the one I have just mentioned? Are you going, at any point, to accept or not to hear them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u24	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I am outraged at the violence that some have shown before the scheduled meeting with the delegation of prison officers. I did not fail to make this known by means of the press, like senior union officials. I deeply regret the purely gratuitous destruction that has been committed. I also regret that the staff at the reception have suffered a shock. I have absolutely nothing against demonstrations and I remain ready to receive a delegation. Moreover, in the memorandum of understanding that I proposed to the unions on Friday, May 6th included the freezing of any additional savings at the staff level in 2016 and the planned recruitment of 405 staff, not only by replacing departures, but also by real new recruitments. Last Friday, the Council of Ministers approved Masterplan III. The latter will help to improve prison infrastructure. Another aspect relates to the fight against overpopulation. A third part concerns short-term infrastructure works. A fourth is the prison officer's status.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u25	Minister, I take note that you are not answering my question, by which I relay, in a way, the strikers' claim to return to the 2014 frame. In my opinion, this is a clear claim. You are proposing some recruitments, but I think they are far from enough to return to the 2014 frame. You propose a freeze in 2016, but it is not by freezing the situation for a year that the problems will be solved structurally. In terms of structural responses, you come with your Masterplan. You still have to realize that all the actors in the world of justice, the magistrates, the prison officers and others, denounce this plan, because it is a plan of budgetary savings, a plan of austerity based on the old principle of this government which is to want to do better with less. We see that this is a disaster in all areas. Multiple reactions demonstrate this. I think you're persevering in this wrong path.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u26	Minister, the Ministerial Select Committee gave you a complementary mandate as part of the prison strike that has been going on for almost three weeks. With this mandate, you will make proposals to combat prison overcrowding through operational measures and on the basis of quantified objectives, to improve infrastructure within the framework of the Masterplan prisons and to invest in security. In this regard, the Government wishes to develop a strategy to combat absenteeism. The Prime Minister also intends that rapid progress will be made in establishing a guaranteed service in prisons, with Belgium being one of the last European countries to be without it. Does this fight against absenteeism also contain the fight against the causes of absenteeism, i.e. the increasingly harsh working conditions and the lack of staff as a result of a policy of austerity, which has not been initiated by this government? Previous Governments had also done their part. How will you solve the problems of infrastructure in Belgian prisons? What are the planned budgetary adjustments for this? What measures and budgetary adjustments are planned to combat prison overcrowding? Are you also going to present a plan to respond to the many criticisms of Belgium by various organizations regarding violations of human rights in prisons? The platform to get out of the prison disaster again issued a pretty crazy statement, not long ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u27	Mr Van Hees, the problem of absenteeism already affects Belgian prisons for a long time and it is not easy to identify the reasons for which it is so high. I also see a high rate of sick absence in new prisons, while working conditions are not comparable to other older and less well-equipped institutions, i.e. the complexity of the phenomenon. This is a problem that unions want to tackle as well. This prompted the establishment of a separate working group in December 2014. At the moment, my administration is developing an action plan to combat this phenomenon, and trade unions have been invited to contribute to it. I place high expectations in the work under way, with the aim of being able to combat this problem and its causes effectively. For a long time, Belgian prisons have not been sufficiently invested. This finding had already been made by my predecessors. In 2008, a first master plan had been launched to remedy the situation. Since then, in addition to the new construction projects known, investments, renovations and expansions have already been carried out in a lot of places. As a result of these renovations and extensions, some 600 additional cells have been created over the past years. This plan will now be extended with the Masterplan III whose Kern approved the principles last Friday. Moreover, it does not only involve major projects for the construction of new establishments or replacement buildings. It also includes a number of smaller-scale projects. This will make it possible to introduce some differentiation within prisons. Masterplan III also contains an important internal component. In addition to the master plans, a lot of investment has also been made every year in existing establishments, on the one hand, by the Régie des Bâtiments, which invests between 30 and 40 million euros annually – this year, it is even more, with 47 million euros – and, on the other hand, by the justice system itself for small repairs, small purchases, etc. For this part, I will also allocate an additional EUR 10 million this year. This money will be used to designate an appropriate design office, carry out minor security work, recruit technical staff, and make additional investments and purchases. Overcrowding in prisons has been a problem that has affected, for decades, mainly inmates and staff. Our intention is and remains to reduce the number of detainees without endangering the order and security of society and citizens. I'll explain. As far as internees are concerned, this year some 80 to 90 places will still be created in the regular psychiatric circuit, thus outside the prison environment. At the end of 2016, the legal psychiatry centre in Antwerp will open. The Masterplan internment, developed in collaboration with the Minister of Public Health, will still have about 200 additional external places spread out across the country in the next two years. In the long term, additional capacity will still be released for internees. With regard to convicted persons, we will continue to rely on faster repatriation of persons without right of residence and accelerated preparation of reintegration files for parole. The transfer of convicted persons to their own country, so that they can serve their sentences, is also a point of attention that I am working on. Last year, there were about 40 such files. This year, the goal is to reach 80 files. The number of persons in pre-trial detention under a standard detention regime must also be reduced. I am working on a proposal to limit the length of pre-trial detention according to the penalty and the nature of the offence. The same applies to the application of the immediate arrest. It was regrettable that the rights of detainees were not respected. With the assistance of the government, I have deployed an action plan involving, among other things, the police, the army, civil protection and the Red Cross. Together with the prison directorates and staff who come to work, and I would like here to commend the commitment of the directorates and staff, we are trying to ensure the basic rights of prisoners as best we can. There have been convictions with the imposition of periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u28	Minister, we have already had the opportunity to discuss the problem of overpopulation. I still have to remind you that in the various "pot-pourri" sections, there may be measures that reduce overcrowding, but there are also other aspects that may increase the prison population. On the investment in prisons, even though you said that there are not only large prisons, I nevertheless point to the case of the mega-prison of Haren. In addition to all the ethical problems and public-private partnership, it is also known that it is a financial abyss that will absorb many of the means of justice and further reduce already weak means. As far as absenteeism is concerned, it is easy to say that the causes are multiple, that they must be analysed etc. When there are major problems of absenteeism in a company or in a sector, often, if not always, it is not the fault of the agents who suddenly would be carrot or lazy. This is because there is a fundamental problem in this sector. However, we have known for a very long time that there are serious problems in prisons. I don't think we should drown the fish. The problem is there and your measures are not going to fix anything, but on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic423x.u29	Question No 11602 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh has been postponed.
