ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u2	You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. You have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. Are there any comments on this? Is there any comment on this? The agenda has therefore been adopted. Accordingly, the agenda was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u3	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the following Parliamentary Assembly expressed my condolences: - de House of Lords, - de Federal National Council of United Arab Emirates, - from österreichische Nationalrat, - the Parliament of Iceland, - the Norwegian Parliament, - the Senate of the Republic of Burundi, - the Chamber of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, - the Council of Representatives of the Kingdom of Bahrain, - de Baltic Assembly, - the Swedish Parliament, - the National Legislative Assembly of the Kingdom of Thailand, - the Chamber of Representatives of the Arab Republic of Egypt, - the Chamber of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, and - from Camera dei deputati italiana. In connection with the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received messages of support and condolences from the following parliamentary assemblies: - la House of Lords, - le Federal National Council of United Arab Emirates, - the Austrian National Council, - the Parliament of Iceland, - the Norwegian Parliament, - the Senate of the Republic of Burundi, - the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, - the Council of Representatives of the Kingdom of Bahrain, [[- the Baltic Assembly,]] - the Swedish Parliament, - the National Legislative Assembly of the Kingdom of Thailand, - the House of Representatives of the Arab Republic of Egypt, - the House of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco and - Camera dei deputati italiana.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is the third day of mourning that we would not have wanted. The time has come to consider the unspeakable as responsible politicians. When I was standing in front of the mirror Tuesday night after a long day of time and emotions, brushing my teeth, I saw 31 people brushing their teeth 24 hours earlier. Some were excited because after their stay with us they would take the plane home the next day. Others were excited because, after a final look at the suitcase in which everything was stored, they were ready to travel abroad the next day, as a tourist or perhaps on a business trip. Some were absolutely not excited, because the next day would be a very ordinary day. They would take the train to work and travel the last kilometers by metro to fulfil their day job. We can think of something in all these situations, because we too once brushed our teeth in the evening in those circumstances. However, there were also those who had brushed their teeth 24 hours before and had looked at their suitcases to see if everything was okay, because the next day, they knew for sure, they would experience an historic day. I don't know if terrorists brush their teeth the day before they make an attack. I don't know, and I don't want to know, because I don't want to enter into their minds. Their thinking can never and under no circumstances be ours, for in the next day they have literally and figuratively blasted away at least three dreams that we all cherish, from very close. The first dream is that open borders can lead to contacts, to mutual understanding. A second dream is that our universal values would actually be universal. The third dream is that we live together here, with a project that all our citizens could agree with. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, those three dreams have broken through the jihadis Tuesday. They have shown that contacts can also be lethal. They have shown that our universal values are less universal than we thought and hoped. They have also shown that there are people among us who reject the fundamental agreements of living together and refuse to live with them. This means that they are people in whose minds we cannot and do not want to enter. They are also people who, if we have these three values, will have to fight them with all possible means, fully aware that they do not share those values of ours and that we will therefore have to deal with them in a special and separate way. I hope that in the next few days and weeks we will work on expanding, where necessary, the arsenal, to ensure that the sacrifice of those many compatriots and people from other continents last Tuesday would not be in vain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March the horror struck us in the heart. Our thoughts focus on the victims and their loved ones. I would like to commend the admirable courage of the relief services and the unwavering commitment of our police, intelligence and defence services. To the ignoble acts, we respond firmly: "No freedom for the enemies of freedom!" These attacks are an unbearable bruise. We won't let it happen. For the past two hundred years, our freedoms have progressed: fundamental democratic freedoms, daily freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of women, emotional and sexual freedom, freedom in private life. In us, continually, the emancipation of the individual is gaining ground on obscurantism. Our way of life, free and joyful, we hold on to it as to the plum of our eyes. There is no way that terror can take root in the field of our freedoms. Our response must be in the face of threats. No attentism. In the face of atrocities, there can be no question of yielding anything. "Let tyranny rule over a square metre, it will soon gain the surface of the Earth," Mitterrand said. He was right. Our response must be commensurate with threats. We must first strengthen security in our country. Our police, justice, intelligence and defence services must be provided with the necessary human and financial resources and budgetary resources to combat terrorist violence effectively. My party will take care of it. It will support all effective measures. Regions, Communities, Federal State, in harmony, let us join forces. Beyond our political differences, let us collectively step up our security efforts. Both prevention and repression must be strengthened. Let's do this by involving the different communities in the country. Victims as well as their families have the right to understand. They also have a right to know. What happened? Why has our country so plunged into horror? A commission of inquiry will have to make all the light. The battle against hatred also passes through Europe. A stronger Europe, centred on the interests of citizens. A Europe that goes back to the precepts of its founding Fathers: guaranteeing peace at home and in the world. In Syria and Iraq, we Belgians and Europeans must support the search for lasting peace and democratic transition for the benefit of the people. We must learn from the past. Under the auspices of the United Nations, the terrorist organization Daesh must be put out of order to harm. Freedom begins where ignorance ends, the poet said. In the world that looks at us, we will show an exemplary, dignified and strong Belgium. That is the challenge we face. We will show that Belgium is neither a back ground of anything, nor a besieged country, let alone a powerless or even disarmed community. To stand is to demonstrate that we are determined; that with all the countries of freedom, we are moving in the same direction. In response to the Kalashnikovs and the bombs, we will oppose the force of law, live it together and honour. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall address a word to our young people to conclude. I want to tell our children that our common heritage, democracy and freedom, will be fully passed on to them. I want to tell them that our Belgium will remain what it is, solidarity, open, tolerant, beautiful and proud. After sadness and anger will come the time of hope. To hope again and again for a better world, to act for a more just world, to fight for a safe world here and there. Say again and again that we remain and will remain more than ever in love with freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u6	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, for several months now we have feared that the terrorist threat will come upon us again. On 22 March, dozens of innocent Belgians and other nationalities, men, women and young people, were cowardly broke down by Daesh's assassins. Our thoughts go to the victims, to the many wounded who continue to fight for life. We think about families and loved ones. We are also thinking of our relief services, whose skill and cold blood have saved many lives. We think of our military, our police, deployed, mobilized to protect our population. We think of our intelligence services working day and night, tirelessly mobilized to fight Daesh's murderers. After being hit in the heart during the attack on the Jewish Museum in May 2014, Brussels, our capital, is again hit by jihadist fanaticism, as in Paris, Copenhagen, Bamako, Tunis, Sousse, Beirut, Ankara, San Bernardino. Daesh still stole lives, destroyed dreams, destroyed loves, destroyed hopes of men and women whose only harm was to cross their paths on a coffee terrace, on a beach, in a museum, in an airport or a metro station. In recent months, Daesh has continued to attack innocent people, but also our way of life, our values, our freedoms, our rights, what we are. We weep for our dead. Belgians are angry. They're afraid for their loved ones. Let's hear them well! Beyond recollection, tears and mourning, let us clearly show our determination. With our allies, we must destroy Daesh. More than ever before, we must act forcefully, together, with the weapons that the rule of law and democracy give us. The fight against terrorism must continue. We're not gonna let Daesh turn off the lights and the tolerance values that we have. It will be necessary to continue to act and to continue the reforms that have been initiated. It will be necessary to make clarity and transparency with a commission of inquiry. Our special committee on the fight against terrorism, set up on your proposal, Prime Minister, will continue its work. But we would be naive to think that we could win this war against obscurantism alone. Also, the European level is one of the central places where we can better fight terrorism. Europe must be fully engaged in this common struggle. The NRP we have been waiting for too long must be made effective as soon as possible. The Arms Directive needs to be strengthened. The exchange of information between countries also needs to be strengthened. Besides, we cannot ignore the situation in the Middle East. This is where the heart of cancer lies: the Islamic State group. Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen, the Belgians have been able, in times of horror, to show solidarity, dignity, courage, cold blood and gathering. We here in Parliament learn from their reactions and continue with determination the struggle we have waged against the barbarians of the Islamic State Group. Our gathering will make our strength to defend the security of the Belgians, to defend our common values, to defend our freedoms. Our national and international gathering is one of the conditions for victory – we have no choice – that we must win against Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday we all saw a day which we hoped would never happen, but which we feared would come up against sooner or later. Never came so close to such terror, to people who left on vacation, to people who went to work or to school. Our thoughts therefore go first and foremost to the victims and to their family and friends. They are all innocent victims of different nationalities, of different political, philosophical or religious beliefs and of different origins. We wish those who survived the tragedy a speedy recovery. I would like to thank the many emergency services that have done a wonderful job in very difficult circumstances and the numerous volunteers who spontaneously provided help and victims. Colleagues, we are overwhelmed by grief, anger and indignation. Yes, we've been struck, but we're not defeated. We will pick up the thread and do everything we can to prevent attacks like this from happening in the future. That is our responsibility. There is, of course, some modesty here. There is no absolute security, but we must strive, by being realistic, by not polarizing and, above all, by engaging in dialogue with whom our society respects and shares our values and values. We should not regard an entire community as suspicious, but we will cut off the extremists. Colleagues, there has been a lot of investment in safety in the last few months. A lot of measures have been taken. All the groups in this assembly will be able to enter into the necessary discussions in committee as soon as possible in order to bring the measures into force. Mr Prime Minister, you just said before the Palace of the Nations that the victims deserve answers. Attacks like this indeed raise questions, because of the links with our country. There are questions about the functioning of our security services, about the approach to jihadism. Could we have prevented this? The government and Parliament will answer these questions together, with the appropriate democratic instruments. A parliamentary committee of inquiry will therefore be set up, which will carry out the necessary investigations in full transparency. Colleagues, the criminals who survived, their accomplices, their accomplices will not escape their severe punishment. There is also an absolute need for repression and a response to these attacks. In addition to repression, there must also be prevention and integration, so that people really live together and everyone who stays in Belgium can feel at home and get opportunities. However, we expect these opportunities to be seized. We owe it to the victims and the next of kin to limit the risks. Security is a fundamental right in our society. We have no option but to strengthen that core value of society. We, the government and our assembly, will do so with determination over the coming months and years. After all, I refer to the earlier words of President Roosevelt: 'The only thing we should be afraid of is fear itself'.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, fellow Members, 22 March 2016, an ordinary Tuesday morning in our lives, people are on their way to work, on their way to vacation. Suddenly blind terror demands more than thirty lives and destroys hundreds of lives of next of kin, wounded, family and friends. That happened here with us, awfully close. It happened at the international airport, where people from all over the world, of all religions, of all kinds of affections, of all colors come together. It also happened on the subway of the European capital. Blind terror makes no distinction in the victims. Blind terror only wants to sow death and fear. Blind terror wants to meet us in our freedom and, in fact, in who we are. That was the case in New York, in London, in Madrid, in Paris, in Istanbul and now with us in Brussels. Moreover, this is almost daily reality in Syria and Iraq. Colleagues, one day as last Tuesday, the world stands still. Sadness and mourning have their place. I would like to express our deepest sympathy to the victims and their families. At the same time, I would like to thank our emergency services for their wonderful work. They have brought the victims to safety, cared for and comforted very efficiently. That fix is heartwarming. Colleagues, what now? That question is pressing, now, what no one hoped but everyone feared happened to us as well. The Prime Minister is shy of his language, shy of the flame politics, shy of the war drum, and he is right. After the 12 and 18 measures, after Verviers and 13 November, we should not immediately unpack a new package. Let us first fully implement what we have already decided. This takes time, but we are therefore scrupling about the balance between security and freedom. However, these legal texts are now ready to be dealt with in Parliament. Following the attacks in Paris, I said that we do not have so much a problem with our security architecture as we do: information must circulate between the various services and the OCAD in our country, and we know who is dangerous. So we do not need extra information or more databases. However, we must check whether this information is shared in practice. We need to monitor figures more closely, and we need to continue to invest in resources, in people and in intelligence. Prime Minister, the last word on conditional release has not yet been said. It's a good thing the police track people down and pick them up, and it's a good thing the police have people tried by courts. However, it would be even better if those people could be held. We must make further progress, particularly at European level. Terrorists, it has been said here many times, have no boundaries. Anyone who claims that security policy should remain an exclusive national competence is erring; only we will not solve that. So, Prime Minister, we must not only have a national fist, but also a European one. That is my appeal to you and your fellow Heads of Government and the European Commission to further implement the European commitments in full. We ask that you make this a priority, with the 28 Member States if possible, with a number of key countries in enhanced cooperation if necessary. Finally, Prime Minister, I would like to strengthen your binding message. We don't need polarization or suspicion. We must now unite and connect all citizens, regardless of their origin or belief, with our open society, our tolerance, our freedoms and fundamental values such as gender equality, the separation of faith and state, freedom of expression and the right to self-determination. Our free society is based on these pillars. We don't give a damn about that. We will defend it at all times and everywhere and, if possible, even more firmly anchored in our Constitution. Colleagues, we must promote these values in a strong education, in education, in our civil society. We are on the side of the parents, the teachers, the associations, the police and the mayors that day out of the struggle with radicalism. All it takes for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing. The fight against terror and radicalism is a battle for all of us, government, security services, civil society, citizens, tous ensemble.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have been overwhelmed by terrible images, images very close, images of fear, of grief and of loss. Everyone in our country has lost something on Tuesday, but no one has lost as much as the family and friends of the victims of this atrocity. I therefore wish them much love and strength on behalf of my party in these black times. Ladies and gentlemen, wishing your partner a good day's work in the morning, waving friends off before they go on holiday or taking the subway to work, since Tuesday it is no longer self-evident. Nothing is what it was anymore. The mind can't do much with all this. People are in shock, people are scared and people are angry. Anger can turn into mistrust. Distrusting another name, another color, another community. That has become almost human in these exceptional circumstances. I understand that. Giving this mistrust a place is very important. It's also very difficult, but it's the only way out. With patience, time and mutual understanding, but mainly together. We go to the same schools, we live in the same streets, and we work in the same cities. Building together will require something from each of us. Ladies and gentlemen, from Paris to Brussels, from Istanbul to Côte d'Ivoire, from Syria to Iraq, the barbarism seems to spare no one. Countless innocent lives have been destroyed. After the attack on the editors of Charlie Hebdo, we were united here in grief. After the attacks in Paris, we were united here in grief. After Tuesday we will be here again. People mainly ask themselves: what now? What's the next move? They're confused, especially after the new facts of the past 24 hours. They're wondering how the hell all this is possible. The questions pile up and people look at politics. They're watching and they're asking, "What are you guys gonna do?" Prime Minister, we are not judging without all the information, but the information that you and your government do have must now be put on the table as quickly as possible. People are asking for clarity. Their questions require clear and concrete answers, because they are entitled to them. The last thing they want now are political games. That is why beautiful and encouraging words are no longer enough; people want their safety back to live a normal life again. Are there any things we can do today to get to that maximum security? The answer is yes. I know you want to take those steps, Prime Minister. You announced them here months ago. I know you can take steps because we see it in the countries around us. We must therefore take these steps. Losing time isn't an option anymore. We've known for a long time what really works and then I think of the missed opportunities to stop fugitive terrorists. One large database of terrorist data shared across all our security services. We can do that, and we should do that. I'm also thinking of the illegally purchased kalashnikovs that shot our policemen. Tackling the illegal arms trade is something we can do, and that is what we must do. I'm thinking of a Brussels police officer who can't intervene in a police zone 400 metres away. We can achieve a single police area in Brussels, and that is what we must do. Dear Prime Minister, dear Government, I'm standing here for the third time and I'm reaching out to you again. I'm asking you to take action. Take the measures that we all know are really working. They are measures that immediately contribute to the safety of all. Is that what it's all about? No, we can only eradicate the root of radicalisation by working actively in the streets, squares and neighborhoods of our cities and communities. Be alert, pick up signals and do something with them. That is the only way we can really win the battle, and I remain convinced of that. Prime Minister, I'm out of words. It's time for action. Without taboos, we must now offer clear answers to give people their safety again so that they can live for themselves again, together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u10	Mr President, this 22 March, death was invited to the heart of our capital. After Paris, after Istanbul, after Beirut, after Ouagadougou, after Bamako, after Tunis, after so many other places, it was at home that the terrorists struck. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the whole country is dismayed and all our thoughts go, of course, to the families of the victims, to those who are touched in their flesh, in their bodies or in their hearts. Prime Minister, you have been able to find the right words and the necessary attitudes with these heroes of everyday life: the emergency services in the metro, at the airport, this metro train driver who immediately intervened to help, to assist, those witnesses who had the reflex to pass the information very quickly and all those citizens who have met since then on the esplanade of the Stock Exchange, and you have been there. When some of our certainties evaporate, we must know how to block and stand up to barbarism, to those who want to undermine our way of life, to those who want to undermine our freedoms, to hold good and more than ever to make society free and open, democratic, egalitarian, to keep good but also to provide the necessary answers. Terrorism is an ideology, men and financial and material means. And it is in relation to these three dimensions that the lessons must be learned, that the answers must be given and that decisions must be made. Yes, there will be a need to strengthen the capacity to combat arms trafficking. Yes, it will be necessary to strengthen the means to oppose the financing of terrorism and all the financial networks that irrigate those who want to benefit from it, including those of us. Yes, it will also be necessary to strengthen the means for prevention and work in neighbourhoods, everything that makes it possible to recreate this society and to live together. But today's questions will also have to be answered. What information did your ministers have? When did they get them? What did they do with it? Mr President, I would like to thank you and our colleagues because yesterday and today we were able to find the modalities, in the Conference of Presidents, to organise our work so that answers to these three fundamental questions can be quickly provided. As of tomorrow, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs will come to explain themselves in committees. As of tomorrow, the Terrorism Committee will really initiate its work on solutions. And very quickly, a commission of inquiry will be set up. That is what we agreed in the Conference of Presidents. The ecologists are hopeful that with this device, clear answers will arrive quickly. You have to. Out of dignity vis-à-vis the victims and because all citizens are entitled to know exactly what happened. We also hope that measures can be taken beyond the traditional opposition/majority divisions and that these necessary decisions will be put in place to strengthen our security without yielding anything to our freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts today are on the many victims, the many families affected by an unseen atrocity. The locations are very consciously chosen, brutally, to make as many random victims as possible among all nationalities, religions and ages, to hit our way of life the most. After all, the departure hall of Zaventem is a symbol of freedom and a place of joy in life, where we traditionally wave and hug each other. The metro is a carrier of urbanity, of fellow countrymen who are on their way to work together. Colleagues, we are all furious. The question is how we deal with it, how we deal with it correctly from the political world. Prime Minister, I would like to thank you today for your binding language and your attitude in recent days. I really appreciate it. Colleagues, connectedness is, after all, the biggest nightmare of these terrorists. It's actually our real weapon in that tough fight. That is why we are expressly in favour of unity and solidarity. However, that unity must not lead to unanswered questions, must not lead to one-sided thinking, not to an omerta. Today we are not only concerned about the functioning of justice and police. We have a lot of questions. Could we have prevented those attacks? Has Turkey provided information to our ministers? If so, when and what information? Anyone who's out for the time being, but violates his terms, has to go straight back to prison, right? Are we short enough on the skin of returned Syrian warriors? Prime Minister, we want to contribute to solutions, to strengthen our security, if we have to, day and night. A committee of inquiry is a useful tool, a good step. However, the questions that already arise today need to be answered more quickly. If ministers of your government are to resign, then there must be answers today. In concrete terms, I insist on a timeline, so that we can see what happened when and when certain information was available. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, today we are all in mourning, but there is also cause for hope. Over the last few days we have seen strong signs of collusion, of a firm no to such radicalism, at the Stock Exchange, in our schools, in many places and squares. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress this: that unity, which cares for each other, that humanity is not only there the days after an attack, which is always present in our society, which is even embedded in our society, there are many compatriots in front of it. We must work more actively with that concern for each other, with that commitment, with that humanity. We should not constantly ask Belgian Muslims, our compatriots, to distance themselves from something they have nothing to do with. We have to ask them to get even closer to us, to get all closer to each other, to choose even more unity and bondage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, for those who do not know, Ministers Jambon and None will be apologized for a European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the words seem derisory to say our pain, that of the wounded, that of the families still often waiting for news, that of the relatives, that of each of us, to say the pain of an entire people. We're in the unspeakable, in the unspeakable. The minutes we have lived with intensity probably speak better than words what we all feel, our immense emotion, our immeasurable pain, our incomprehension, our anger and our immense compassion. Our thoughts go to the victims who have lost their lives, broke by a barbarity without a name, and to those who are still struggling for life and will be forever marked in their bodies and in their minds. Our thoughts also go to those who have lost a child, a spouse, a mother, a father, a brother, a sister, a grandchild, a friend or a colleague. Words come more easily to thank all those who have mobilized with professionalism, courage, humanity, generosity to deal with the attacks. I am thinking first of relief services: ambulance workers, firefighters, first aid workers, nurses, doctors, hospital staff who have lived up to the situation and more. Then I am thinking of our security services: police, military, Crisis Centre personnel, security officers who have mobilized quickly and decisively to protect our security. I am still thinking of our counter-terrorism services: police and intelligence services and magistrates who, for months, have been working tirelessly in difficult circumstances in order to thwart plans for attacks and to identify and prevent the perpetrators and accomplices of attacks from being harmed and who have managed in recent days to make considerable progress in the investigation. Finally, I am thinking of all our fellow citizens, of those who have had the right reflexes, who have contributed to the investigations, like the taxi driver who carried the suicide bombers at the airport. I am also thinking of the taximen who have made themselves free of charge in the service of the population, the hotels, the inhabitants of Zaventem and elsewhere who have welcomed and supported survivors of the airport and many other citizens. I am also thinking of the citizens who have spontaneously gathered, braving their fear, to commune around these tragic events, to gather beyond their differences around what unites us and our values. This spontaneous citizen movement, built around a logic of "we" all short rather than "we and them", bears witness to great wisdom and gives rise to great strength. Union, in diversity, is our strength. This citizen reaction carries with it a hope which we desperately need in the face of the clouds which are accumulating, in the face of the violence which is increasingly present and increasingly legitimized by discourses which usurp and betray the religion which they claim to claim to claim, in the face of the threat of implosion of Europe in which we have placed so much hope, under the blows of national selfishness. Past the time of emotion and recollection will come, for politicians, the time of lucidity and action. We couldn't prevent these horrific crimes. We have not been able to protect the population from these assassins. This is what we, the political leaders of all parties, will have to assume collectively, with humility and lucidity, this is what the judicial intelligence and judicial police authorities will have to assume. It is not a question of saying that nothing has been done or that no results have been achieved. It is not a question of saying that no attack has been foiled. Nor is it a question of pretending that it is always possible to prevent the weapon of a suicide bomber from hitting. It would not only be stupid, it would be contrary to the truth. However, we have a duty to learn all the lessons from what has happened. To do this, we must dare to ask all the right questions. We owe it to the victims and to our country. Without that, we may not provide the best possible responses to terrorism. We have decided to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That's indispensable. The questions that we and the citizens ask ourselves are many. Questions about the use of the report of Belgians intercepted at the Syrian border and the follow-up given to it. Questions about the time limits for revocation of paroles. Questions on the processing and use of information on the preparation of attacks. Questions on coordination between the various competent services, including food and the use of the database. Questions on the operation and use of the SIS and Europol databases in Belgium and on our country's follow-up to European recommendations in this area. Questions about the transition from one level of threat to another and the measures associated with it. Questions on the prevention, treatment and follow-up of radicalised people, in particular returnees. Questions on the budgetary, human and legal means needed to implement the measures required. As many questions, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to deal with them with clarity, but also with courage. For, in order to defeat terrorism, we will have to show courage. As Nelson Mandela said, " courage is not the absence of fear, but the ability to defeat it".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join with the words of horror that have already been expressed about this week's barbaric attacks. A sincere tribute to all the aid and police forces who, in these circumstances, do what they can, and even more, are more appropriate today. In addition to sympathy with the victims, I share the indignation and anger. Yeah, I was angry. I am angry because it has come to this, angry because our warnings to Islam fanatics in general and to the brothers El Bakraoui in particular were hoarded away, angry because all our proposals for solutions and zero tolerance were voted off by you. The many statements of support offer comfort, but no solution. I have heard poignant statements here, but no answers. However, the best tribute to the victims would have been that you had already given answers in this House today. Can there be at least a few words to explain? Have Ministers Geens and Jambon, who have since left, offered their resignation? May we know why? Is it because the anti-terrorist measures announced after Paris have been collecting dust for months? Is it because the open border policy is maintained unabated? This allowed one of the perpetrators, Najim Laachroui, to recruit in Syria and return to Belgium unhindered together with Abdeslam as an asylum seeker? Is it because of the true cascade of deadly laxity as a result of a failed justice policy, of early release, ankle bracelets, pats on the back, a policy that this government is simply pursuing? It is truly unimaginable that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was free. It is vengeful that he was released early against all advice after barely half of a minor sentence. Colleagues, the brothers El Bakraoui should not have been in Zaventem on 22 March 2016 and not in the Brussels metro, but should have been behind bars. Gentlemen, you are politically responsible for this. There have been hallucinating events. A liaison officer reports to the Home Office that a missing, temporarily released person is on the Syrian border, ready to go to a jihadist conflict zone. His report remains without any effect. Apparently, for the current government, someone is only a terrorist when that person blows himself up and when it's far too late. It is sad to see that nothing has changed twenty years after Dutroux. However, less was then resigned by ministers. I wanted to ask for the resignation of Minister Geens and Minister Jambon here today. I didn't want to ask for a little discharge, like they did today. After all, one cannot be a little pregnant. Prime Minister, you would have refused their resignation. Why do they stay on? Can they still function? Can they continue to do what? Is it to keep making mistakes? Is it to continue the policy that made the attacks possible? Replace them and make a change in policy. Make sure that the horror we have experienced over the past week can never repeat itself. After all, no one today sends a message to that bad political theatre, to a shameless act. It is a one-two, so that in the meantime a committee of inquiry can be set up, to buy time and let everything cool down. It is a money laundering attempt, as I have already seen several so-called committees of inquiry here in Parliament. At least this time make it a real parliamentary committee of inquiry, which gives quick answers. That's the least you owe to the victims and their families. It must become a committee of inquiry which exposes all the blunders so that they can never be repeated again. It should also be a committee of inquiry which identifies political responsibilities. If they were still present, I would have called on Minister Geens and Minister Jambon not to wait for that committee of inquiry, not to resign a little bit but really. They have good reason to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday unspeakable, barbaric acts were committed Together with them, it is the very heart, the foundations of our society, of our solidarity that have been attacked. On Tuesday, people from all communities were affected. The day before yesterday, two thousand workers gathered at Zaventem airport. There were workers and servants present at all companies. There was Fabienne working on the check-in and still hasn't been recovered. There was Abdellah, a baggist at Zaventem airport, who lost his legs. There was Martinez, also a baggist, burned on half of the body. I also mention Jamal, who worked in the cleaning services and also became a victim. Workers from all walks of society have been affected by these barbarians. Let's not hide it, ladies and gentlemen! The strategic goal of a company like Daesh, the strategic goal of a criminal network like Daesh, is to polarize our societies. There is no military purpose for this type of barbaric attack. There is no geopolitical ambition to be able to impose military victories on our territory today. There is only one goal for Daesh, to polarize our societies so as to exclude the most people and recruit more and more fighters. That's the only purpose of an organization like IS. So today is the question of how we will fight it. What are we going to do? Fortunately, we have seen a lot of warmth emanating from our society, from the different places where the population has gathered. I had the opportunity to go to Place Saint-Lambert in Liège, in front of the Stock Exchange in Brussels. I suppose you also felt that warmth, that warmth of young people, of older people, of workers whatever their origin. They touched each other and said clearly: "Daesh, get out, Brussels is not yours!" That could be translated as follows: Daesh, get rid of it! Brussels is not yours! No, Daesch! Brussels is not yours! Yeah, get out of here! But for that, ladies and gentlemen, we must think about failure; we must be able to speak of failure because we have not managed to avoid such atrocities in our capital. Why? That is the question that everyone is asking themselves! When it comes to mourning, it is essential to know why the tragedy occurred. We will not escape a substantive debate, in particular on our international policy, which must be stamped as "double standards". There is hypocrisy because today our allies in the region - Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Turkey - are anything but neutral with regard to what is happening in Syria. I'm not the only one who says it. Let me quote from the report of the UN Special Envoy for the negotiations on Syria, Staffan de Mistura: "The tragedy in Brussels reminds us that we have no more time to waste. We must put out the fire of the war in Syria. The best way to combat terrorism is to find a political solution in Syria." In his secret report of 18 January, he points directly to our Western allies who are now putting oil on fire in Syria. It points the finger at organizations supported by Western democracies, organizations which are supposedly democratic, but which refuse any form of political process. No, ladies and gentlemen, for those who believed that the Western powers could continue to export war around the world, to bomb Iraq, to bomb Afghanistan, to Libya, believing that these bombings would not one day return to our territory in Europe, you have made a mistake! Today is the time to question the geopolitical interests that we are defending in these areas of the world! Ladies and gentlemen, today is also the time to dare to ask questions and to know the truth about what happened to the information. Persons who have to grieve have the right to be informed. For this we need to know what information Belgium has received from Turkey. What was done with that information? How did we deal with that? Could it have served to prevent the barbaric attacks in Belgium? These are questions to which we must have answers. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope only one thing is that the committee that will be held tomorrow is not a 'forgetting' committee. I hope it won't be another cover-up to keep information secret. The Belgian people, the workers have the right to know what has been done, but also what has not been done in order to draw all the lessons from it. On behalf of all the organisations, the workers, I would like to speak out loud and clearly to Daesh, saying: Brussels is not yours! In front of terror, in front of fear, we will not bow!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my party and on my behalf, I would like first of all to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the March 22 attacks, and to wish the wounded a speedy recovery. I would also like to highlight the courage, self-denial and tenacity of our relief services and also our police forces, who have done high-quality work before and after the attacks. Indeed, we have just experienced tragic events. Our country has just been shaken by acts of unspeakable barbarity, claimed by the Islamic State, which welcomes it on its official radio. Although the high and imminent threat was known to us, we were not prepared for such a disaster. Obviously, the places of great assembly were targeted. We must learn from it; it is imperative. Even if the risk of terrorism is illusory, we must make every effort to ensure that such serious events do not happen again. We're dealing with crime professionals. So we have to react professionally. Over a year ago, the government listed measures to combat terrorism effectively. Some have come into force, others have not yet. There may be an urgent need to accelerate their implementation. Moreover, the control of our borders, strategic points and places of high human concentration must be restored quickly and with some firmness. We are aware that several preventive measures must be taken against radicalism. Similarly, follow-up measures are needed, such as an increase in the period of police custody or in the investigative techniques to be adapted. But enforcement measures must be given priority. We must not become a military or police state, but our democracy must be safeguarded. I hear that the Minister of the Interior works every day to strengthen police capacity, intelligence research capacity. I hear that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration works every day to tighten the conditions for access to the territory. Prime Minister, your role is not only to coordinate matters but also to speed up procedures, and in particular to encourage the implementation of these measures as soon as possible. We must not lose sight of the fact that the problem is also international. We must contribute to the destruction of Daesh on its territory and therefore support the international community, while knowing that military successes in Syria or Iraq will increase the number of returns to European territory. Belgians have a knee down but don't want to be laid. They want security, we need to be able to offer it to them. To do this, I encourage our assembly, all ideologies combined, without dogma, to get around the table in order to create a common dynamic to stop as quickly as possible this phenomenon which gangens our society and undermines our foundation of values, our fundamental freedoms and, above all, the components of living together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have said this, each with your words, our country, our people have been confronted with the darkest page in its history for decades: dozens of destroyed lives, many wounded who will bear forever the sequels of this cruel attack and at this very moment families in anguish, families waiting, children who no longer have a father, who no longer have a mother, women and men who have lost loved ones. Their only crime – some have rightly said – simply live and share freedom on a daily basis: take a plane, take the subway and see its life, its destiny and that of those who love you totally broken. In the last few hours, together with others, I have met these families, those rescuers, those policemen who have been confronted with the ultimate horror, with apocalyptic images, images that no one can ever forget. We also know that these attacks are not only directed against men, women, so against people, but everyone today has said that they are attacks against our way of life. Our country, this land of Europe, is the expression of a common and shared destiny, the destiny of women and men who share values of tolerance, openness, diversity, women and men who, minute after minute, week after week, have decided to build together a project where, beyond differences, beyond origins, beyond ideological convictions, beyond philosophical convictions, we consider that there are universal values wherever one is born, whoever one is, whatever the god in which one believes or does not believe, that there are intangible values, the values of the Enlightenment: equality between women and men, separation between churches and the State, freedom to believe or not believe. These values were attacked a few hours ago in Brussels, after being attacked in Paris, Bamako and Tunis. In many places in the world, we have seen these tears that, today, reason so close to us, so close to us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that our responsibility, our political responsibility as Prime Minister, as a government, as a Parliament, is enormous. Today we all have a duty to live up to the page of history that opens before us. It is the sense of hand that is stretched to the government by parliamentary groups. It is also a matter of working with even stronger determination to be effective, in order to raise safety levels. Measures have been proposed. Some have been implemented. Others still have to be. We will have to continue, with due respect for the democratic debate, and at the end of frequent discussions between us. Sometimes we'll have a lively exchange of arguments. We will see how we can translate these measures into action in an attempt to effectively raise the level of protection of our citizens. I would also like to give a very clear answer to those who have rightly said in this assembly today, the heart of democracy, that there are questions. Those are important questions. We must be able to give clarity and transparency. We must respond correctly and correctly. There can be no room for the temptation to mitigate, minimize or hide anything. In keeping with this moment with you, I want to make the solemn commitment, not only to this House but also to the Belgian people, that the government will make every effort, in full cooperation with this Parliament, to ensure that all the elements that have led to this tragedy, this tragedy, are fully clarified. We also know that not only was our country affected. A European approach is needed. It is our duty to find solutions both in Belgium and in Europe. We are, it is true, in a complex moment. We are, indeed, in a tragic moment. Before concluding, I want to greet, and I think I can do so in the name of many in this House, the dignity of our fellow citizens who, in the face of this cruel trial, have shown their generosity, have shown that the best can reside in the human soul, have had the ability and the courage to come to the aid of their fellow citizens, have had the ability to try to intervene and act in order to minimize a tragedy that was so horrific, atrocious. We're in a storm. We're in a difficult time. And we're going to face, standing, determined. The values that we embody: the rule of law, democracy, freedom, tolerance, openness must more than ever be our benchmarks to face together. Together and determined, we must be mobilized, live up to history, live up to the expectations of our fellow citizens. That's the call I want to make. And yes, I am taking the hand that is stretched out by all parliamentarians this afternoon. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for working with us to ensure that we succeed in this common commitment. )
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister. I understand no one's asking for a reply anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-24-54-plenair-ip103x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to inform you about the activities of this Parliament for tomorrow and the days ahead. Tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. there will be a meeting of the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism, in the presence of Minister Geens. Tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. there will be a meeting of the United Committees for the Interior, Foreign Affairs and Justice, in the presence of Ministers Geens, Jambon and Reynders. The Conference of Presidents at this noon also proposed the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into terrorist attacks. A proposal for the establishment of this committee of inquiry will be tabled shortly and taken into account at a forthcoming plenary session. Tomorrow, after the joint committee meeting, the Conference of Presidents will meet again to possibly set a date for another plenary session. I can tell you now that it is certain that there will be a meeting next week. Next week, among other things, the temporary committee on combating terrorism and the advisory committees on the P and Committee I Committees will meet. The rest of the agenda will be examined. Thank you for your attention.
