ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u1	Minister, a few months ago the Court of Auditors published an audit report on the operation of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. On the basis of the recommendations in that audit report, I ask you this question. You have said in your policy paper and in response to previous questions about the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises that you want to make it a performant tool that can be consulted by everyone in a simple, transparent way, across the different levels of government, both federally and regionally. However, I would like to mention some of the comments made by the Court of Auditors specifically. The Court of Auditors notes that the organisational and institutional framework does not yet provide sufficient guarantees for the quality of the KBO. For example, companies often need to contact different organisations in order to be able to enter data into the system. The current regulations strictly define what data are in the CBO, who enters them, and who corrects them. A more flexible regulation would give the management service more scope to improve the organisation of the CBO and the quality of the data. According to the Court of Auditors, the use of electronic import applications is still too low. They should be developed as much as possible, and their use should be encouraged or even mandatory. The audit also shows that the federal and regional administrations and institutions use a lot of alternative sources of information because the information via the FBO is not timely or not fully available. Thanks to CBO, the administrative burden on enterprises has been reduced, but not completely eliminated, according to the report. According to the audit, this is partly the responsibility of the companies themselves. If their data in the FBO do not correspond to reality, public undertakings cannot apply the only-once principle. A better KBO can thus generate efficiency gains for the government. That is nothing new in itself. You have rightly pointed out in previous statements and in your notes and statements that there are still profits to be made. You also replied to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and responded to the Court's report. The government wants to focus on optimizing the KBO. It wants to strengthen the mandates of the KBO so that it becomes the only administrative partner for SMEs and for the Regions. For the CD&V it is important to be able to create a unique business window and to keep the dates of the companies as simple as possible. We have also mentioned this in the discussion of the policy paper and in previous statements. What is the current state of affairs in optimising the functioning and quality of the FBO and in creating the unique business window to avoid data being introduced through different accesses and alternative sources? How will you proceed with the objectives set by the Court of Auditors? What concrete steps have you taken? What is the further planning in terms of optimization?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u2	Mrs Smaers, as has already been stressed, we strengthen the assignments of the CBO so that it becomes the only authentic source of entrepreneurial information. That is the objective that has been set out very clearly. This project, which follows the coalition agreement, simplifies the existing processes within the KBO, starting from the end user's point of view. You have rightly already mentioned the company as an end user. For the entrepreneur, the future new processes to register or to make changes to the FBO must meet the criteria of administrative simplification and efficiency gains through that digitisation. As an additional objective, the quality of these data in the CBO will be further improved in order to make it a performant and accessible tool and, of course, to increase its use. A number of priorities for achieving these objectives are set very clearly during this term of office. I'll just mention them. A first priority during this policy year is to give priority to the relief of the Registrys of the Commercial Courts by the termination of their duties in respect of the filing of the instruments, both private and authentic, of companies and of legal persons. These tasks will be transferred to notaries and business offices and will be carried out in a digital way. For the deposit of documents drawn up by the courts, including disputes relating to bankruptcy and judicial reorganisation, the court concerned will continue to play its role with the Registry. The second priority is to make the data in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises completely contrary to third parties. The publication of the extract of the deposited document in the Annex to the Belgian Official Journal will be replaced by a publication on the website of the KBO. That is also a very important step forward. In addition to the optimization of the KBO, the necessary steps are taken to allow an official digital communication. For example, steps will be taken to enable each company to be contacted at a reliable official electronic address. As indicated in the audit report, the quality actions of the management service of the KBO have an effect and will continue. In particular, it concerns, firstly, the improvement of anomalies reported by the undertaking itself or by a third party concerned, secondly, specific quality actions undertaken either on its own initiative or at the request of other administrations, thirdly, automatic decommitment of incorrect addresses, and finally the training and information of originators and data managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that this optimisation and simplification is being carried out through a single data source for companies and one unique window, as we had in mind. Thank you for that. I assume that the Court of Auditors and many others will continue to follow up on this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u4	Madam President, Minister, several insurance companies want to place in cars, subject to the approval of the driver, an electronic device that accurately measures driving behaviour. It will measure how fast one drives, how sporty one drives, how one pulls up and slows down and how often one uses his direction indicators and horn. In conjunction with the GPS signal, it is then possible to determine what type of driver one is. The insurers then want to use this information when determining the premium or to be able to provide certain benefits. Since this is new in our country, we need to clarify consumers' privacy and general consumer rights before the system is rolled out. We have recently seen a number of examples in the press that show that it is a phenomenon that is emerging more and more. If the driving style of a driver does not correspond to the driving style expected for a given premium, can the insurance company unilaterally stop the insurance? If a driver moves to another insurance company, can the new company use the registered driving style data of the previous insurer to determine the premium? In other words, is the claim history communicated to the new insurer? How long may an insurer keep such data? What is the procedure if a driver disputes the data of the measuring devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u5	Madam President, Mr Klaps, first of all I would like to stress that consumers must always have the freedom to choose whether or not to communicate their data. For specific questions on the protection of privacy, please refer to Secretary of State Tommelein. He will be happy to answer your questions about the protection of privacy. The determination of the insurance premium and its modalities is a matter of contractual freedom. The use of a device recording the driving behaviour allows for a certain risk analysis that makes it possible to reward safe driving behaviour by varying the premium or granting discounts. I am pleased to note that the sector is looking for new tariff structures in order to offer customers a good policy in general. Under the insurance law, the insurer must clearly and intelligibly state in his offer the segmentation criteria that will be used to determine when there is safe driving behaviour and right to a more favourable fare. It must be objectively measurable, verifiable and contradictory. When transferring data between companies, it is important to stress that this is only possible if the client has given his or her express consent. For the retention period of documents, including the data of the clients, I refer to a circular from the FSMA of 1 September 2015 setting a minimum period of five years. When the insurer decides to terminate the contract due to a modified risk, he is legally obliged to justify his decision. In the event of a dispute, there is first of all the insurer's complaints service itself. The policy holder may also refer the matter directly to the Ombudsman for insurance or bring the dispute to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u6	Minister, I believe that it is indeed important that freedom of choice is guaranteed. In this context, we are in complete agreement. Similarly, with regard to the transfer of data to a new insurance company, the question arises whether the damage record transferred through a certificate is necessary in order to determine the new premium. One could go along with that logic and say that, if there is such data, it is transferred. I am pleased to note that this is not the case for the time being, unless the consumer agrees. Then, of course, there's no problem. However, if one has a policy at company X and one turns to company Y and says that one does not want to make his data known, then this should not be perceived as a kind of suspicion in the new society and in that way cause problems. I am sure that Assuralia, with whom you often consult, whether it is about mortgage loans or other matters, will monitor this and that it is now in good shape. I do think that this is a point of attention that we should continue to follow. In my view, the trend will only increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u7	Mr President, the law of 21 November 1989 stated that all vehicles which can drive autonomously, regardless of speed, are motor vehicles and must be covered by compulsory insurance. My question dates back to November, a while ago. However, last week we were able to read that the insurance legislation in this area needs to be adapted and that account must be taken of the speed of the vehicle in order to require or not to require insurance. The FPS Economy also held a study day on this. Following a written question about this issue about three quarters of a year ago, you said that there is sufficient coverage for accidents involving electric bicycles with trapassism. This risk is covered by the family liability insurance which 90% of the Belgian population has. That is why I wanted to hear where this turnaround came from in order to revise the legislation. What are the conclusions of that study day of the FPS Economy? What are the concrete plans? What are you going to change? For which types of vehicles do you plan these changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u8	Mr Klaps, your question dates from a while ago, following that afternoon's study. You know that the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance explains what to mean by a motor vehicle. This definition clearly shows that motor vehicles are vehicles which can be driven by mechanical force. The explanatory memorandum on this definition further clarifies that this mechanical force includes the force produced by an engine and the force produced by other mechanical means, with the exception of its own muscular strength. That's not one of them. In my reply to the written question to which you refer, it was indeed stated that the family liability insurance covers the use of bicycles with trapassism. After all, if the support is only provided if one kicks oneself, then there is no question of a motor vehicle. Many people with an electric bike already thought that they would be chased at extra cost. I brought in my speech once more to make sure I don't contradict myself. I expressly stated on the study day to which you refer that the speed and power of these bicycles are far from weak. However, the speed and ability are not criteria for determining whether the different categories of electric bicycles are covered by the obligation of professional liability for car insurance. There is therefore no insurance obligation and certainly no sudden change in my position. I'm very sensitive to that. As you could read in my policy paper, I believe that there is a need for a legislative framework for new means of transport. There is an urgent need for an update to the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act, which takes into account, inter alia, the evolution of the case law. The study day of the FPS Economy was mainly intended to introduce the wider public to these new means of transport and the challenges they pose in terms of insurance. I can give you the presentation and the speeches. They are also on the website of the FPS Economy. I hope I didn't contradict myself. It is clear that we need to modernise legislation and bring it into line with the latest technological developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u9	I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. We must continue to look at this problem. Some electric bicycles are limited to 25km/h or 30km/h. Some also drive 45km/h, which is faster than some mopeds. Due to the continuing roll-out of new bicycle paths and bicycle ostrades, there are more and more electric bikes, for example at the busy times in commuting. In Antwerp we already see traffic jams on the bicycle paths that are almost as long as the car files. It is the means of transport of the future, but we must be sure that family insurance will continue to cover it. Ninety percent of the Belgian population have family insurance. We should not force them, but we should make it clear once again that it is much more than an insurance policy that serves when the dog bites the postman or when the children break a window during football. It is much wider and very useful for a relatively small cost. It would be interesting, for example, to have Assuralia emphasise that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u10	Madam President, Minister, this question was put some time ago and concerns the progress and presentation of additional indicators, in addition to the well-known economic indicators, such as GDP, in order to measure happiness and quality of life. As the questions linger for so long, the answers were given automatically. Two weeks ago, the Federal Planning Office gave us an explanation of the work it has done on these additional indicators. We were then able to exchange views and hold a debate. That was very useful and I would like to congratulate once again the Federal Planning Office and your services. After all, this is a very good addition to what we knew. In the meantime, the National Bank has also included these indicators in its report. We debated in committee two weeks ago whether that number of additional indicators is a good thing. In this respect, the Federal Planning Office will have to do some work. The Planning Bureau itself said that this is a work in progress and that it will try to give as much strength as possible to these additional indicators and identify the most important ones to measure quality of life. I assume there will still be some evolutions against the next report of the Federal Planning Office, but the subject of my question is obsolete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u11	Madam President, Mrs Smaers, it is therefore sometimes an advantage if slower. Out of respect for your question, I would like to emphasise once again that the timetable set out is strictly followed and that no obstacles have emerged that have delayed publication. You have heard the explanatory statement of the report. Secondly, during the preparation of this report, the relevant public administrations and civil society were consulted on the draft report through the inter-departmental committee on sustainable development and the federal council on sustainable development, respectively. This consultation led to several improvements and a validation of the selected thematic performance indicators and indicators. I understand that you have already consulted that document. By the way, it's also on the Plan Bureau's website. As regards consultations with Eurostat and OECD services, work on the additional indicators has been improved by the regular involvement of the Planning Bureau in Eurostat's Europe 2020 and SD indicators working group and by a meeting with OECD services working on welfare indicators. The Federal Planning Office has also used several Eurostat and OECD reports in relation to indicators of well-being and quality of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u12	Minister, these are questions from December! Admit it's not right! I do not chair this committee, but in the Committee on Infrastructure, I am angry with the ministers, otherwise the questions of the parliamentarians, who are still important to them, no longer make sense. We should try to come and see us every month and a half. This question dates from 7 December. It's worth it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u13	It is up to you to organize the work of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u14	We'll tell the president. Mr. Klaps and I insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u15	In the defence of the Minister, I can nevertheless point out that the questions were in principle already on the agenda of the previous committee meeting, in which the Minister came to answer questions. Then it got late, because many and long questions were asked. Due to lack of time, a number of questions were passed on to today. Indeed, we are on our committee with a lot of issues. I am convinced that the Minister would like to come much more often. We often have very long meetings in committee on other subjects, which means that we do have a little too little time for some ministers at times. I hear Mr Calvo suggest that we split the committee. I think that we can certainly look at that and that we are not against it a priori, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u16	Minister, promoting banks for their bank agents, but also for brokers, often working with a preferred insurance company. In order to strengthen this promotion, commissionable allowances are often provided for additional fees. More and more these additional fees serve as compensation for increased bank charges and not as an additional bonus, which makes agents and brokers more inclined to deal with them. Do you believe that the level of banking commissions may be influenced by insurance production with a preferred partner? Is this not contrary to the broker's statute, which should ensure that independent insurance advice is given?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaps, the situation you are describing is well known and is being followed by the FSMA. Neither the latter nor the Minister is competent to determine the amount of the allowances. This is the subject of agreements between the parties. However, these agreements cannot have the effect of compromising the independence of the broker. This point was raised by the FSMA in its circular letter of 6 April 2014 on the amendment of the Act of 27 March 1995 and the extension of MiFID rules of conduct for the insurance sector. I'll give you the quote, rather than reading it, because that makes little sense. Unless you insist, of course, I'd like to read it to you. My conclusion is that the FSMA has stressed to the attention of the parties concerned, including Febelfin, that it will pay particular attention to this issue in the context of its controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u18	Minister, I am not asking you to read the whole text, that is not the intention of this committee. The problem is important, because it goes a step further than we have been used to. For bank agents, it has been practice for a long time, for example, that IT costs are budgeted at a certain amount, which can then be recovered by obtaining certain commercial results in the banking agency. There can be little or nothing against that in itself. However, if some kind of cross-pollination is made with insurance production, we will end up on a slippery slope. It will be difficult if necessary. For a bank agent who is an insurance broker at the same time, it is already difficult to resist the pressure to work with the insurance company of the principal or preferred partner. If conditioning becomes a cross-pollination, then we run the real risk that the opinion will no longer be independent. However, that is precisely the added value of the broker's statute. We must pay full attention to this problem. I'm glad you're answering that the FSMA is looking at the file with a lot of attention. However, the discussion with the sector should continue. It is also necessary to consider in detail whether we should allow such a practice to exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u19	Question No 7982 by Mrs Dierick is postponed. We have no news from Mr Gilkinet to ask his question No 8012. Mr. Klaps, excuse me. You can ask your question no. 7916.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u20	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the related insurance agents. It is a problem on which I have already questioned you in the past, namely the definition of related insurance agents, introduced by the Royal Decree of 21 February 2014. This definition raises problems in practice because exclusive insurance agents may in fact cooperate with insurance companies other than those with which they have an exclusivity contract. This may be because the company does not offer a certain insurance and gives its agent the freedom to seek appropriate insurance from another company for his customer. This is usually done via the so-called real estate agent, who is a 100% subsidiary of the group. But there are other situations where a society gives its connected agent more freedom. A while ago you said that the talks were going on and that a solution was being sought between the FSMA and the professional associations concerned. So this is a simple follow-up request. What is the state of play in this consultation? Have concrete steps already been taken in the new agreement? Is there any prospect of an overall agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u21	Madam President, Mr Klaps, the FSMA is constantly engaged in a constructive dialogue with the representative associations in the insurance sector, namely Assuralia, Feprabel, BZB, FVB and BVDM, within the framework you have outlined, but where other issues are also raised. Discussions on the difficulties raised in relation to the status of related insurance agents are also continuing. The FSMA has proposed solutions that take into account, as far as possible, the different situations that can occur in practice. The interests of the various professional associations are not always the same, which makes it difficult to compare between them. At the same time, a few months ago, the FSMA launched inspection campaigns, which are not just exploratory and which aim to measure the extent to which the rules of conduct are applied in the field and which are also pedagogical. These inspections also concern the monitoring of the rules governing the Staff Regulations, including the problems of tied agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u22	They provide a clear overview of the different situations on the ground. The diversity of these situations was re-examined with the professional associations concerned. The discussions are in a final phase. The FSMA confirms to me that it will be able to present a proposal for action in the next few weeks. This will require adjustments to existing legislation. We will take this into account in the draft transposing the Insurance Mediation Directive. This directive was published last month. If you know that the transposition must take place by 23 February 2018, we will have some time. However, as with mortgage loans just now, we must not wait until the deadline. I think we should work on that. We certainly cannot wait for that date of 23 February 2018. Start the conversion work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u23	Minister, I am glad to hear that we are apparently in a final stage. The signals coming from the sector are sometimes rather opposite. I am rather concerned that this agreement can still be reached. Because if everyone stays on his or her point of view, it's gonna be hard to come to anything. That group of connected agents do indeed have a problem today, with the current KB. So we certainly should not wait until 2018 to do something about it. I think those connected agents are in a situation that they themselves can do very little about. One year, the bank where they are bank agents chooses preferred partner x and the next year for partner y and then another. Of course, there have been a number of policies there. I think that with the current definition this is very problematic. We must try to remedy that. If we do not get out of it with the various professional associations and the FSMA, I think we should take an initiative from Parliament, from your cabinet or from the committee. We must therefore try to give legal certainty to those different types of insurance intermediaries. That's very important. If the FSMA, quite rightly, controls all kinds of formalities very heavily, they should also be able to be in general with these formalities. Otherwise, we're gonna end up in a street with no end. I look forward with you to the communication of the FSMA over the next few weeks. If there is not, we must come up with an initiative ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 7982 has been postponed. Question No 8031 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u25	At least two colleagues are present. Other colleagues' questions are irrelevant. Mrs. Grovonius is on a mission abroad. I give the floor first to Mrs Cassart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u26	Mr President, Minister, the Transatlantic Treaty (TTIP) has already caused a lot of ink to flow, especially regarding the supposed perverse and negative effects, such as the arrival of chlorinated chicken on our plates – this is the first image many have given – or the privatisation of our public services. However, if the European Commission, under the mandate of the European Parliament, negotiates this treaty with the United States, it is with the aim of bringing about growth in Europe by simplifying transatlantic trade through the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers. It is a noble goal which, however, seems not to convince in view of the fears conveyed to the citizens. However, according to the report of an impact study of the Transatlantic Treaty, Belgium would draw its pin from the game. This is good news, of course! Good news, of course, but to be nuanced. Indeed, some sectors would be positively affected, while others would be adversely affected. We must therefore be careful. Impact assessments are difficult exercises to conduct. Further studies will be published that will or will not reinforce the results of this first study. Of course, I'll be vigilant. While I welcome the positive impact that the TTIP will have on certain sectors of our economy according to this study, I plead for support for the sectors which would be harmed by the Treaty. We need to think now about specific aid for these sectors, so that they do not suffer from negative impacts. According to this study, Belgium would win overall TTIP. This is to be welcomed and not to cultivate fears among the population. It is important to clearly inform citizens, so that they understand that the TTIP is not a Trojan but an unprecedented opportunity to create growth. To eliminate psychosis, the government must be as transparent as possible and provide objective information, which will reassure citizens of the reducing messages and the fear conveyed by some. Mr Minister, in view of the results of the study, which points in particular to the sectors which will suffer from the TTIP, is it still possible at present to revisit these points which have already been negotiated in order to avoid the negative impact on these sectors? If not, do you think about aid measures specific to these sectors that are likely to be affected? What are you planning to support the agricultural sector, in consultation with Minister Borsus? What aid are you planning to support Belgian SMEs' exports to the United States? In the wake of the TTIP, what about the impact of the treaty negotiated with Canada, which is much less discussed? Will Belgium benefit from this? If so, how? Believe me, minister, I'm taking this case with tweezers. It's a difficult case. It is a case in which truth has not always been told and unfounded fears and fears have been conveyed. My question is based on a study and I wanted to hear you about it. I know that tomorrow, in plenary, there will be an important debate on this TTIP. But I believe that putting the truth at the centre of the debate and providing the correct information is indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u27	Everyone will be able to speak tomorrow and give their views on this important treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u28	Mr Minister, my question also deals with impact studies on TTIP and its impact on our own Belgian economy. The reasons for starting and conducting negotiations, including from our country, were growth, added value and the reduction of import duties where necessary. The Convention will also include provisions on import duties and unique standards. There were several reasons, we all know, to start and conduct negotiations on the treaty. Over the last six months, a great deal of information has been disseminated in the media and through public opinion about the potentially very negative effects of TTIP. The TTIP would not be good and there was a lot of protest, from different action groups and committees. They have constantly disseminated the information that this mutual added value would not be achieved for our economies, labour markets, employment and growth. Recently, an impact study was published by the AmCham EU, the American Chamber of Commerce EU, which examines the impact for the different EU Member States. The study showed that there are many positive effects to be expected for our country as well. For example, a permanent increase in GDP of 1.1 %, an export increase of 27% to the US and a slight fall in consumer prices of 0.1 % are expected. For our country, with its open economy, in which we are very dependent on exports, it is good news that the treaty can expect an increase in exports to one of our main trading partners. The study thus shows that positive results can be expected. I think it is useful and necessary to include that element in the debate and not just to respond to a concern about TTIP that we all have and which we must keep in mind. The potential positive effects should also be highlighted, against fear, action and protests against the TTIP negotiations. Mr. Secretary, have you taken note of this impact study? Can you support the conclusions of that study? Will you or will you not have another impact study carried out by the FPS Economy yourself? That is also what we are talking about. Can we expect our own impact study? Are impact studies of this kind still being carried out at European level, including by the European Union? What could possibly be taken out of that for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u29	I have failed to state that Question No 9174 by Mrs Vanessa Matz was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first element is impact assessment. Mrs Smaers' question was about the impact analysis that we ourselves announced. I can tell you that we have decided to appoint the Ecorys office to analyse the figures and impact of TTIP on the Belgian market. That impact study will be ready. The final report should be delivered in September 2016. She'll be published, too. The other fellow Members' questions were about the selection criteria. They all went according to the rules of art. Ecorys has experience in this matter. It will carry out the study before September 2016. The supervision of the execution of this study is carried out by the international department of the General Directorate of Economic Analyses and International Economy of the FPS Economy. A follow-up committee will also be set up, consisting of representatives of various relevant executives of the FPS Economy. Finally, all federal administrations and administrations of the Länder will be regularly informed of the progress of the work through the interministerial economic inspection of the FPS Economy. Our own impact study will certainly be completed on time. Mr Smaers referred to AmCham's study on the impact of TTIP on Member States. It was published and received some attention. We have taken note of this and we have looked at the conclusions of these studies. The analysis has not yet been completed. Thanks to the impact study, we will be able to confirm, refine or adjust the results for Belgium in the AmCham study. Ecorys, who will carry out the study we ordered, was commissioned by the European Commission to carry out the impact study on sustainable development, the Sustainability Impact Assessments, for TTIP. This work is based on the economic analysis of the Center for Economic Policy Research, published in September 2013. Sustainability Impact Assessments extend research into other areas, such as environmental and social impacts and the impact of the agreement on human rights. This impact study is still ongoing. To finalize this first element of the impact assessment, I am convinced that with facts and figures, objective information, we can discuss many elements to support or not the TTIP for Belgium. I understand there's already a discussion tomorrow. Except for AmCham's, there are no studies yet. In terms of social and environmental impacts, the European Commission's study becomes very interesting. Mrs Cassart-Milleux, it is important for me to stress that we must discuss it on the basis of objective figures. To say this is positive and this is negative... When the impact for some sectors is not positive, when they do not benefit from the TTIP agreement, we need to look for measures to support them. We don't know when we're going to close the negotiations between the United States and Europe: at the end of 2016 or 2017. For my part, I remain calm. I will support the debate on the basis of the reports that are very important to me because they stimulate discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u31	I thank the minister who gives me a consistent and comprehensive response, and who remains cautious. I'll meet him. We all need to be careful about this. The study has arrived; it is necessary to analyze the figures and to evolve. As I said at the outset in my question, we must give correct information. The debate will take place tomorrow in plenary. We will still have time and opportunity, Minister, to discuss it again in committee and in other debates by the end of the year, but I thank you again for the comprehensiveness of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is correct to have an impact study carried out from Belgium as well. We cannot say much on the economic front pending these results. Once again, I think we should be able to bring all the issues into the debate. Therefore, an objective economic impact study is rightly requested from Belgium. I also think it is right and necessary that not only the negative elements should be brought into the air, but also the possible growth, all the more so because we are an exporting country. We must be vigilant in these negotiations, but I think that has been said several times. We must continue to follow the path, being both vigilant and realistic, and we must dare to see all aspects, including the positive ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u33	Mr President, Minister, it has been a long time since the problem arose: fewer and fewer distributors are available on the territory. The press pointed out last December that in Molenbeek there are only two ticket machines left for every 26,000 inhabitants! That's very little! Ensuring the accessibility of money deposited in a bank is one of the minimum obligations of the banking sector vis-à-vis its customers. Not only today, they have to pay in order to be able to withdraw their money from a number of withdrawals made, but also it becomes impossible to withdraw his money, of which it is also known that he does not earn anything. Minister, what is your position on this issue? Is it not a minimum service to allow the inhabitants to easily withdraw money from their communes? How do banks justify the closure of agencies in these neighbourhoods? Do you have any information through your administration? A few years ago, I fought to fight against the lack of distributors and to open self-banks to all cards. This is a success that we have been able to achieve thanks to the debates in this Parliament and the threats to the banking sector. The problem is that the self-banks open from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Do you intend to re-evaluate the agreement with the banking sector on banknote withdrawals? Would this not be an opportunity for you to renegotiate the mandatory presence of distributors, for example, common ones? The number of free withdrawals appears to be insufficient in relation to the amount of annual withdrawals (about €4,000 per cardholder). A renegotiation seems necessary. Can we count on you to do that? Minister, are you going to reopen a major debate with the sector to allow people to withdraw their money free of charge and have distributors and self-banks in their communes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, the task of banks is indeed to provide a minimum service for the accessibility of ATMs. They must also ensure a correct geographical distribution and a good availability of vending machines, especially in rural areas. Since February 2004, there has been a gentleman's agreement, approved by the Council of Ministers, between the representatives of the Belgian Association of Banks and the then competent ministers for the Economy and Consumer Protection. This agreement provides, inter alia, for banks' customers to carry out, as part of the overall management of their accounts, a reasonable number of free withdrawals at all counters. This reasonable number was set at 24 in Belgium. Not all banks charge for withdrawals exceeding this figure either. The advisability of re-evaluating this agreement needs to be considered in a more comprehensive reflection that takes into account the effects of initiatives such as the possible increase in the costs banks impose on their customers for sight accounts. This issue needs to be analysed in the broader context of price and its evolution in this basic banking service. As far as the number of distributors is concerned, since the end of 2010 there has been an average annual increase of more than 1 % per year for Belgium as a whole. The banking sector has thus given me figures on the number of banking agencies for the Brussels-Capital Region. There were 428 agencies in this region for 6,410 in the country. However, in large cities such as Brussels, many public places (metro stations, train stations, etc.) have ATMs where customer service is provided. Belgium has an average of 1,304 ATMs for 1 million inhabitants. It is thus above the European average of 960 ATMs per 1 million inhabitants. To the extent that my administration is not aware of any major complaints or problems in this area, there is no reason to impose a standard on the minimum availability of vending machines. However, banks must have clear communication regarding the closures of distributors, as to the alternatives proposed and their strategy of setting up distributors, taking into account their obligation to provide a minimum banking service to the public. Mr President, I would like to make available to Mrs Lalieux a document containing figures and statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u35	Minister, I propose that this document be attached to your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u36	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Previously, proposals from parliamentarians could be put forward. But the times have changed. Still, at one time, I had submitted a proposal on the basic service that had been retained. Having said that, talking about average means nothing. According to SNCB and parliamentarians, including the CD&V, on average, punctuality is respected. In any case, this is not what everyone who has to suffer the delay of their train thinks. In addition, I would remind you that the third of the largest municipalities in Brussels has two distributors, whereas in the city of Brussels where I live they are both not found because of the number of tourists. In doing so, it must not be an average, but a fair distribution so that every citizen, whether living in rural or densely populated areas, can have access to a distributor. If distributors are scarce, they are quickly without money, as is the case on weekends. You said the gentleman's agreement was from 2004. It's 2016. Things have changed in twelve years, minister! This gentleman's agreement must therefore be reassessed. And don't let anyone talk to me about an increase in pricing! You, it seems, often seize the Price Observatory. I'd like to know what's going on with the studies. Perhaps you could seize it with regard to banking pricing and gentlemen's agreement. I invite you, in any case, to put pressure on the banks to ensure that there is no tariff increase. Today there is comparability between banks. It's important. You have to review this gentleman's agreement: twelve years ago, it's almost three legislatures! Minister, try to seize this before 2019. That'd be good!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u37	I will consider that the incident is closed even if the problem remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u38	Ms. Len Dierick asked that her question No. 8097 be postponed. The same applies to questions Nos 8107 and 8747 and to question No 8108 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel. Mrs Van Camp asked that her question No 8275, attached to question No 9751 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, be transformed into a written question
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u39	Minister, a consumer agreement has been concluded for some time now, which I took up once again and which was discussed with the suppliers of gas and electricity at the time. Nevertheless, there are still malpractices or uncertainties that need to be overcome. Recently a number of malpractices were denounced in a reportage. Last week, for example, I was quite annoyed by the communication of Electrabel to his customers about the tax on solar panels, which still lives at odds with the actual interpretation of what is called the Turtel tax across the street. There are therefore arguments to update the consumer agreement and to strengthen consumers even more in the complex market environment of gas and electricity. I understand that you would like to carry out an evaluation of the consumer agreement and that a new version is being prepared. Many market players, especially the new players, have a great willingness to engage in such an exercise. I would therefore like to support your ambition, in particular an update of the consumer agreement. However, I do have a few questions. If necessary, we can discuss a number of points which deserve a place in a new consumer agreement later on. Will there be an evaluation of the consumer agreement? I understand you do. You can get the necessary clarity today. Within what time and how will the evaluation take place? What and how many infringements of the existing consumer agreement were identified in 2013, 2014 and 2015? What are the most common infringements? Linked to this, what are your priorities for a possible adjustment of the consumer agreement? It is a challenge to strengthen consumers and increase mobility in the electricity and gas markets, but also to send a very clear message to a number of less sympathetic players on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u40	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the agreement "Consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market" was concluded following negotiations between representatives of consumer organisations, regulatory authorities and the Minister of Economy. The purpose of this agreement is to protect consumers from possible abusive practices or misleading information in their relations with suppliers. The provisions implemented under the previous legislature came fully into force on April 1, 2014. An assessment of the consumer agreement was included in the federal government's agreement: "By 2016, the current consumer agreement will be evaluated. The government will always provide an adequate time frame for implementation of new measures." Therefore, Minister, what improvements do you intend to make to the consumer in this agreement? When will this agreement be amended? Will you force energy suppliers to convert dormant energy supply contracts into new contracts at the end of the first contract, in order to increase transparency for the benefit of consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u41	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your conciseness. Some questions thus enter into the required time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calvo and Mr de Lamotte, I may first give you information that you already know, but which may be interesting to give. According to data collected by CREG, there are approximately 2.4 million dormant contracts. There are 2.4 million dormant contracts. I would like to conclude a first evaluation of the current energy agreement very soon. For this evaluation I asked for a contribution to all regulators, to the ombudsdienst voor energie, to the FPS Economy and to Test Purchase. I hope to receive the evaluation of Test Purchase by the end of next week. I received Test Purchase from me last week, including for a maintenance on mortgage credit. However, we also discussed the problem mentioned above, because we had asked Test Purchase for an evaluation some time ago. They promised me they'd get me that sturdy peddle. Last week I also spoke with Mrs Marghem about the subject, to make sure that we are all on the same wavelength. Of course, I don't want to anticipate. I do not want to anticipate and draw premature or provisional conclusions on the problem of dormant contracts. The conclusions resulting from the evaluation will be submitted to energy suppliers and will form the basis for consultation on possible adjustments and improvements. Obviously, I want to close this case as soon as possible. I wish to conclude the dossier as soon as possible. It is also advisable to communicate any decisions of the consultation, so that we can judge on the initiatives to be taken to encourage consumers to compare prices more often and, where appropriate, to change suppliers. Mr Calvo, Mr de Lamotte, I have some specific figures for you. On the number of infringements, I can inform you that 30 minutes of warning and pro-justitia were issued in 2015. In 2013 and 2014, there were eight and four respectively. The task I assigned to the inspection services at the beginning of 2015 to monitor the sector more closely has therefore had consequences in terms of figures alone. The most common infringements currently reported by the Economic Inspectorate are related to distance selling, sales outside sales premises or unwanted messages. In conclusion, I would like to work as quickly as possible on the evaluation of the consumer agreement. I asked Test-Achats to send me their vision as soon as possible. I hope that in the coming weeks we will be able to work on all these elements so as to have a very clear vision and consider possible adaptation of the agreement. In this way, we will respond to the questions put by Members here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u43	Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, your answer confirms what I had already understood, namely that you are making an evaluation and even completing it. That could lead you to the suggestion that a hearing should be held immediately, which, in practical terms, may not be the most obvious slope. I would therefore like to suggest a very practical alternative. In particular, it is not possible to share the input of the various stakeholders to the current consumer agreement with the Commissioners. When you were sitting across the street, there was a lot of debate about this and even here in this Chamber, if I am not mistaken, when the termination fee was abolished. There was a very large parliamentary involvement at the time. The wider consumer protection in the energy market has been fostered, the better. I would therefore ask you to make the evaluation available to Parliament. In addition to the evaluation of the consumer agreement, other legislative initiatives may need to be taken. Who knows? I would like to insist on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u44	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am obviously very interested in the conclusions you will draw from the evaluation and above all in the prospects for the future. How will this evaluation be translated into practice? The defence of the consumer does require positive changes for the consumer, particularly in the price of energy, because there are many dormant contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u45	Mr President, Minister, the problem of solar benches is not unknown to you. I have already asked you about this last year. The risks associated with the use of solar banks and their uncontrolled use are significant. Many users do not know them, while they can develop, at worst, skin cancers, but also other skin diseases. The SPF Economy conducts inspections with operators of tanning centres. Action has also been taken at European level demonstrating problems in all Member States, although there is no harmonised rule at this level. Minister, you have assured me of working on all aspects, to find solutions that allow customers to be safe and operators to work in good conditions. You told me to talk to the sector because good consultation prevails in this area. Minister, what is the status of your discussions with the tanning centre sector? What is the result of the controls organised in 2015 by the SPF Economy? You did not have comparative statistics from the countries of the European Union when I asked you last year. Do you have them today? Are you considering putting in place a labelling system that – you told me last year – does not yet exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply in both languages because Mrs Van Camp has also tabled a question on the same subject. Firstly, I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to do more checks than before. I do not want to put a specific figure on that, because effectiveness depends not only on the numbers but also on the targeted nature of the studies. There will also be much more stringent action if too high radiation is detected, by drastically reducing the tolerated margin of error. Mrs Cassart, the most concrete result of the consultation with the sector is that, at present, the new professional federation FeBelSol, created last year, carries out mystery shopping. Some 30 visit reports were sent to the Economic Inspectorate. The findings in these reports are very similar to those of the Economic Inspectorate. Serious deficiencies were also observed during mystery shopping: minors and persons with skin type 1 are unfairly admitted, the duration of the first session is not limited, the skin type is not determined. The mystery shopping organized by FeBelSol is done in a serious way and the reports of the mystery shopper provide useful information for the inspection for conducting investigations. According to the figures given to me by the Economic Inspectorate, 65 investigations were carried out last year. A total of 357 offences were found. In more than one in every ten cases a temporary seizure was carried out. I don't have comparative statistics. First of all, I want Belgian tanning centres to comply with the rules. For information, as a result of the stricter and more targeted approach, three centres were sealed last week. In determining the amount of the proposed transaction, account shall be taken of all the findings and, inter alia, the number of non-compliances and the seriousness of the infringements. Each study is therefore evaluated separately. The Royal Decree of 10 April 2014 sets the minimum and maximum amounts of transactions and designates the officials they can propose. According to the provisional data for the 2015 working year, 51 transactions were proposed. Its amounts range from EUR 75 to EUR 3 650. I am currently studying how to better identify solar bank operators through the CBO and to register with a specific NACE code. I am confident that the stricter controls and actions of FeBelSol will lead to a significant improvement in the situation. In these circumstances, I will not consider setting up a labelling system. In economic law, it is not customary to offset costs for investigations into the economic sectors concerned. Other safety investigations are also carried out by the inspection officers concerned. The administration cannot give me an exact figure on staff costs. In particular, I can say that the purchase price of specialised measuring equipment to check the radiation from solariums was about EUR 40 000. Every year the equipment is calibrated, with an average cost of EUR 7 500. That is my answer. I have also given information on Mrs Van Camp's question, which is not here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u47	I thank the minister for his answer and I know that this is not a simple matter. Sometimes it's interesting to have statistics, but here we don't have one. The FPS Economy must have every opportunity to do its job. Examples are tanning centres that do their job very well. We must be able to penalize others. This is the task for the SPF Economy. I very much hope that the legislation will be maintained and that you will be vigilant about these abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u48	Mr. Chair, Minister, last year I asked you about the one-stop-shop for mediation to find out how the Federal Consumer Mediation Service was working, whether there had been an increase in the number of files and whether you had statistics on the various sectors. You replied that the entry into force of Book XVI of the Code of Economic Law had been postponed to June 1, 2015 in order to allow the Consumer Mediation Service to fully prepare for the actual start on that date. Minister, can you confirm to me the proper entry into force of this Book of the Code of Economic Law and the proper start of the Consumer Mediation Service? Can you tell me if any problems have been encountered? Following the introduction of this one-stop shop and after more than six months, can you tell me whether you have seen an increase in the number of cases processed? Can you give me a statistical comparison of the files processed over the period from June 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 of the one-stop shop compared to the sum of the files processed by the six mediation services before the creation of this one-stop shop? Do you have statistics on the different sectors? Which sectors are most affected by an alternative dispute resolution request?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, Book XVI of the Code of Economic Law came fully into force on 1 June 2015. Since then, the Consumer Mediation Service has been available to consumers and businesses. The relocation of the mediation services has not yet taken place as a result of the delay in the construction of the premises for them. This work will be completed in the coming days. I hope the premises will be available very quickly. In seven months, 2,921 requests for out-of-court settlement were submitted. Although this period is quite short, it appears that the monthly number of applications is on the rise. We will see if this development is confirmed. At present, I do not yet have information on the activities of the six mediation services in 2015. For information, during 2014, these six services had received 27,658 requests. In 2015, the Mediation Service forwarded 625 requests for out-of-court settlement to other qualified entities. Of this number, 131 requests were for one of the six mediation services you are targeting. The sectors most affected by claims for out-of-court settlement are electronic information and communication items, housing maintenance services, housing maintenance items, furniture and large household appliances. Each of these five sectors is responsible for more than 5% of applications. For example, more than four out of ten applications relate to these five sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u50	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u51	The chairman. That is an important subject, Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to a question that was raised in this committee last year in connection with the Mantelzorg Day and your announcement that insurance companies could in future offer family care insurance to carers. Meanwhile, a lot of months have passed. My question dates from the beginning of January 2016. What is the state of play with regard to the provision of non-life insurance and the consultation you have had with the insurance companies? Last year, you announced that it should be possible for physical accidents, damage to medical devices and civil liability, among other things, to be insured through the insurance scheme. Legal aid insurance could also be offered in the package. According to my data, three insurers would have offered a design policy to effectively submit the household care insurance. What is the state of play in the consultation with the family carers' associations on making private carers' insurance available? Will the cloaking organizations intervene in the premiums for registered carers? If so, how much? That discussion was held last year, but it was not clear at the time. Also important to know is what about the cost will be for the caregiver. Are there major differences between the policies offered? If so, what are these differences? I thought there were three policies, but maybe there are more in the meantime. When will the family care insurance be available to the care provider?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u53	Mr President, you rightly said that this is a very important issue. We've been working on that for a while. Last year, together with the organizations active in the care sector and the insurance companies, we met on a number of occasions to market a tailor-made insurance scheme for carers. In the meantime, the National High Council for Persons with Disability has also issued a position note in which it advocates insurance for carers. There are three insurers that have developed a policy, in particular KBC, Belfius Insurance and Ethias Insurance. On 10 November last year, a meeting was held in my cabinet between the care organizations and the aforementioned insurance companies. During this interview, the insurance companies were given the opportunity to explain their insurance package and the family care organizations were also able to ask questions. Both parties were very positive about this interview. Now it is up to them to sit down with the insurance company of their choice and to make the final concrete agreements on the conclusion of the policy. There are already family carers who have expressed their desire to intervene in the premium. Which organizations will do this and how much they will intervene in the premiums is part of their policy decision. The insurance packages of the different insurers differ slightly in price, but also in coverage and administrative support. It is up to the family care organizations to see which insurance is best suited to their specific needs and what they can then endorse. Since my last intervention, in which I brought the care organizations in contact with the insurers who offer family care insurance, work has been done by the family care associations themselves to effectively conclude a policy. Some of the largest household care organizations are negotiating with an insurer in concrete terms. The current discussions include the level of the premium and whether or not to cover the problems arising between resident family members. Depending on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations, the organisations hope to be able to conclude a policy by the summer of this year. Family care insurance could then be offered to the carers from the year 2017. For the time being, however, negotiations with insurers are still awaited. I think we have played an important catalyst role in this by having three insurance companies develop a product. We have brought the two parties together to the maximum, to ensure that the products correspond to what the family care organizations had in mind. Now it is up to both sides to find a comparison. If for any reason there is another serious problem, we must take it up again, but I am confident that policies will be closed by the summer of this year and that, as Mr Smaers has asked, that insurance can be offered effectively to the carers themselves in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your meddling role and for the work you have done in this area. I understand that it is now a question of finding agreements on the price, some provisions and perhaps also clauses in the insurance policies themselves. The case should therefore be close, at least by summer. I hope that this can be done with you by the summer, so that family care insurance can be offered effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u55	Minister, as you may know, there are many rules on how agreements are to be concluded and implemented, especially in consumer law. There are fewer rules on how agreements can be terminated. Exceptions are specific sectors such as energy and telecommunications. As you know, we amended the law on telecoms last year. One can now cancel a contract after 6 months without charge, in the same way as it has been entered into. That can even be done by text message, if the contract was signed by text message. This also applies to number transfer to another provider. You can do that via text, e-mail or whatever. Unfortunately, this is not the case in most other sectors. In particular, for certain subscriptions to goods or services, this often leads to poor situations where thresholds are created for withdrawal. This should be done, for example, by means of a registered shipment or by telephone termination. I have experience with that myself. There are newspapers that can only be cancelled via a certain telephone number. One then calls there, gets a waiting music for half an hour, and then a friendly lady comes to the phone saying that one should actually call another song. And then one can listen to another music. All very nice, but such thresholds are more inspiration to the people of Basta, who once made a nice program about it. In the Netherlands, on the other hand, there is a general law which states that an agreement must be able to be terminated in the same way as the way in which it was entered into. Hence my questions, Minister. To what extent do you see the thresholds created for the termination of contracts relating to goods or services? I am not talking about financial thresholds, such as for fitness subscriptions, but about administrative thresholds. What is your view on this? Do you have experience with the Dutch system? Did you look at that or have it looked at by your administration? Do you see the possibility of introducing similar rules into our legal system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u56	It happens that companies make it difficult for consumers to end their subscription through all kinds of formal requirements. The Economic Inspectorate receives a limited number of notifications. Last year there were 179 related to the termination of contracts. A number of notifications relate specifically to terminations. That cannot yet be specified. For the future, perhaps we should look at how we can better define exactly what we are talking about, whether the problem you are describing is included in it and how big that problem is in that group. It is important for the consumer. I agree with you that it is important for the consumer that he or she can exercise his or her right of cancellation in a flexible manner and that he or she may, if necessary, have the necessary evidence of the cancellation. Contractual provisions which hinder these principles can indeed be challenged through a number of legal provisions. I'll give them to you. Firstly, the Code of Economic Law prohibits clauses designed to restrict in an unlawful manner the means of proof which the consumer can rely on. On that basis, terms which advance a particular notification as the only valid method of cancellation may be found to be unlawful. Secondly, the restriction of the consumer in the exercise of his rights can also be countered by the provision on unfair, aggressive commercial practices in this case. Depending on the circumstances, this may be an inappropriate influence which can significantly restrict the freedom of action of the average consumer. Thirdly, the current legal framework is already strict. The number of problems reported is limited. On the basis of your question and your experience, I have asked the Economic Inspectorate to draw attention to this problem and to see how big this problem is. Perhaps it will prove that the instruments we have at our disposal are insufficient. I will also ask you to look at the Dutch system. It is interesting to learn from experience in other countries, including legislation. So I'll ask to see how many complaints have been received specifically about this matter. I will also ask you to look at what is happening in other countries. Let me give you your example of the Netherlands. With these elements, I will then look into the need for initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u57	Minister, it is always interesting to learn from other experiences. We must not always reinvent hot water. The number of complaints was indeed rather limited. Most people don't complain so quickly. If one has already listened to watch music for an hour, one does not complain so quickly, let alone if one still has to walk to the post office to arrange for a complaint. People don't do that so fast. It may indeed be an option to ask the Economic Inspectorate to disclose the possibility of lodging a complaint if one considers that it is not flexible enough if one considers that the law is being broken. In my view, it would also be not uninteresting if, in addition to the reactive monitoring of complaints, the Economic Inspectorate also proactively carried out a limited sample of most services. The terms and conditions for subscriptions can usually be found on the website. If one looks at how one can cancel and at the general terms and conditions, one can already learn a lot. Of course there is a difference between theory and practice. People don't know what's gonna happen after a simple call afterwards. We must pay attention to this. It might be interesting to look at those cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u58	Question No 8560 by Mrs Kitir has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u59	Minister, last year you were asked a few questions about the brewery contracts in the Committee on Industry. It was claimed that the brewery contracts would be strangle contracts for those who signed such a contract. You stated on several occasions that you wanted to reach a solution in November 2015. Finally, on 21 December 2015, a code of conduct for good relations between the brewers, the beverage dealers and the catering sector was concluded between the Belgian brewers, FeBeD, Horeca Flanders, Horeca Wallonia and Horeca Brussels. This code was to enter into force on 1 March 2016. There are some very good things in this code of conduct. For example, those who wish to start a catering business must meet a number of conditions and receive training first. There is also a certain relaxation of the products that can be freely offered and there is a list of what is regarded as a prohibited clause or practice. Sectoral organisations and professional associations which are not partners in the Code of Conduct can always be encouraged to join the Code of Conduct voluntarily. I have a few questions about this. Firstly, how much of the Belgian market is now covered by this code of conduct? Secondly, which Belgian sector organisations and professional associations were not partners in this code of conduct and can voluntarily join? Foreign organisations are not associated with this code of conduct. How many and which foreign organisations have contracts in this sector with operators of catering establishments? What bodies monitor compliance with this code of conduct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u60	Mr Janssen, I hope you are very enthusiastic that we have managed to eliminate the stranglehold contracts in this sector. That's what I was supposed to do. You have some questions about the coverage and impact on the site that hopefully will be very large. The main players in the sectors concerned are the signatories to the Code of Conduct. As you know, it concerns Horeca Vlaanderen, Horeca Wallonia, Horeca Brussels, the Federation of Belgian Brewers which includes the majority of Belgian Brewers and FeBeD representing 700 liquor dealers. If you ask whether the sector is completely covered by this, it is a very interesting question, but it is difficult to answer. Our estimate is that we have captured more than 60% of those involved in the sector. I would like to underline that the code of conduct currently applies only to buying-in contracts and not to concessions granted by cities and municipalities for, for example, canteens and sports halls. That is something we will continue to work on. I will therefore write to the cities and municipalities to urge them to comply with this code of conduct. It would be a pity if we in the private sector had solved the stranglehold contracts, but that the governments of this country, especially the towns and municipalities, would not agree. This will enable an even larger part of the catering sector to benefit from the protection of the code of conduct. The professional associations and sector organisations which are not partners to this code can join, just like individual companies. This also applies to foreign companies. Negotiations are currently under way with Dutch and Luxembourg brewers on their connection to the code of conduct. That is a second action we are taking. The sectors concerned will set up a conciliation committee to monitor compliance and interpretation of the code of conduct. That committee shall be composed of representatives of the three sectors concerned: brewers, beverage dealers and catering. The same three sectors will designate an independent and impartial chairman. Disputes on the application of the Code of Conduct in individual contracts will be submitted to the Conciliation Committee in the future. That committee will be able to make a unanimous decision on this matter. Practical arrangements of the Commission and its operation will be developed by the signatories of the Code of Conduct and added as an addendum to the Code of Conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u61	Mr President, Minister, I think it is very good that you will also write to the cities and municipalities, because I think that there is also a need to speak with some municipalities. The negotiations with Dutch and Luxembourg breweries seem to me to be a good thing, but I do not think they will volunteer to join. I will ask a question about the state of play in the future. I think that a conciliation committee is a very good thing. Conflicts can best be resolved among themselves and the higher authorities should not be called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 8631 has been converted into a written question. I have no news of Mr Vanden Burre and I do not see him, so his question No 8635 becomes moot. Question No 8644 by Mr de Lamotte is postponed. Question No 8746 by Mrs Winckel is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 8888 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 9010 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssens' 9024 has been postponed. Question No 9118 by Mrs Caprasse is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u63	The bell-me-not-list ensures that you no longer receive unwanted advertising over the phone. Companies and organizations will take your phone number and name out of their call files and will no longer call you for their products, services or special promotions. The bell-me-not-list was made mandatory last year for all operators and has gained tremendous popularity since then. More than 918 000 people already registered. We were told that 1794 complaints had already been received from people who had registered and still received unwanted commercial calls. An investigation was initiated in 297 cases. Despite the severe penalties that can be imposed, it appears that there are hard learners who do not want to keep to agreements. My questions to you are therefore the following. Which are these hard learners? Why were no investigations initiated in 1794? How many investigations were passed on to the parole board? Has that been decided yet? How many friendly settlements were implemented and what were the fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u64	I hope Mr Janssen understands that, of course, I must respect the confidentiality of criminal proceedings. Given the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation, I cannot release the names of the companies concerned which were the subject of criminal proceedings. An investigation cannot always be carried out because the calls often come from abroad, because the detector does not know the telephone number or because the notification is too incomplete. But there are criminal investigations and calls from abroad pose some additional problems. As far as the numbers are concerned, I can tell you that five pro-justi ties were sent to the parquet. That has not yet been decided. Four transactions were proposed for payment, of which a transaction of EUR 3000 was already paid to the Economic Inspectorate. So the list is a great success. We also follow it up and the parquet also takes the necessary actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u65	That was a clear answer. I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u66	Mr President, Minister, in the meantime you may already remember the copyright directive. You've been questioned about that a few times. You know, therefore, that Article 2 grants an exclusive right of reproduction to authors, performers, producers and broadcasters and that Article 5, second paragraph, contains a number of optional exceptions to that exclusive right of reproduction, which Member States may or may not introduce. In paragraph (a), the legislator refers, inter alia, to the reproduction on paper, i.e. the known reproduction, by any person, provided that the right holders receive fair compensation. Paragraph (b) refers to reproduction on any medium by a natural person for private use, which is popularly home copies, provided that the right holders again receive fair compensation. Paragraph 3 (c) of the same Article provides once again for an optional exception to the right of reproduction for the Member States. I quote: "Just as an explanation of education or for the purposes of scientific research....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What is striking is that the latter quote does not involve fair compensation or fair compensation. This necessity is therefore not included in the European Directive. It is optional in this respect, which is also reflected in recital 36 of that directive. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, I do not know if you still have a view on this, but why did Belgium impose a mandatory fair compensation for the reproduction operations of paragraph 3a of the directive, although it was not required? What were the considerations in this regard? On what grounds was that choice made? To what extent are these arguments still valid today? This question arises, especially in the knowledge that the exception for education is very limited and knowing what actions are taking place in education. Especially in the research centres scientific peer reviewed papers are reproduced. It's about papers whose author is usually a paid scientist. The peer review is done again by a paid scientist. We can ask ourselves that, especially given that a university or higher education institution pays for the subscription, it also pays for every publication that someone makes and pays to buy off a lot of annexes. We can ask ourselves a number of questions. Mr President, to what extent are these arguments for fair compensation still valid today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u67	Mr Dedecker, this is a dossier which we shall have great pleasure in. You were already aware of that, and I am more than ever, because we are fully considering how we can get out of it in a good way, taking into account what you have already asked questions about in the past. Everyone, including publishers and schools, is very concerned about this, but I suspect that you are also in contact with a lot of those actors, or that they have contacted you or will be looking for you. So we are working hard on this, but I will try to answer your questions now, with some caution. How is it that Belgium has provided for exceptions to this in the past? Belgium already had an exception at the time of the transposition of the Directive in May 2005 for reproduction limited to the reproduction on paper of articles and photographs or to reproductions of short fragments of works, books or periodicals, etc., which applied to sectors such as companies, administrations and education. Paragraph 2 of Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 30 October 1997 does grant a fee for education. The indexed rate shall be EUR 0,0256, instead of the standard rate of EUR 0.034, per copy of a protected work, made on the basis of a device used by an educational institution or by an institution for public lending. It was decided at the time to retain that exception and compensation. What shall we do? We are working hard on it, but the question is whether it would not be reasonable to completely abolish a fee due by teaching for acts covered under the exception of copyright. In my policy paper, I indicated that simplification of the exceptions and reimbursement systems of the education sector is absolutely necessary, given the current complexity. The educational institution is only part of the problem of the reproduction levy. We need to work legally coherent, forward-looking and balanced. On the one hand, there are those to whom we cannot ask. Others want to continue to receive what they have received in the past. We will have to maintain the right action, vision and legal coherence. I can't wait too long. We're gonna have to land soon. Then we can discuss this in detail here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your enthusiastic answer. Education has indeed received a favor rate. This applies at micro level, being a rate per page. At macro level, we find that the education sector is only responsible for half of the total amount of proportional fees collected, which is per copy and not the levy on the apparatus. That weighs on the budgets of our schools, colleges and universities. I'm sure you know that from your party mate and good colleague. It has the necessary financial challenges. Consultation in this could be interesting. I look forward to your further initiatives which, as you say, will soon take the sting out of the problem. The stinger's been there a long time. He was already there before you moved to the federal level and was pushed a little deeper by the European Court. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u69	Question No 9234 by Mr Sebastian Pirlot is transformed into a written question. In the absence of Mr Georges Dallemagne, his question No 9814 became moot. Question No 9237 by Mr David Clarinval is postponed. Mr Minister, I think we are going to consider three more questions from Mr Klaps and three more from Mrs Lalieux. If everyone holds his time, it's playable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u70	Mr President, Minister, we can make payments in different ways today. Cash, debit card, credit card, online and mobile are only a few forms and the possibilities are getting wider. Not so long ago, contactless payment with the bank card was introduced, both via credit and debit card. This way one can pay by keeping the bank card close to the bank card reader, without having to put it in. This can be because most new bank cards become or will be equipped with a Near Field Communication chip (NFC). The adjustment of most card readers has also already taken place in the largest retail chains. Banks that already offer that system choose to allow contactless payment of low amounts....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If the amount is higher and the customer wants to pay contactless, he will still have to enter the PIN. The same shall apply if consecutive payments through contactless payments exceed a maximum amount of EUR 50. We can only welcome a quick and simple way of paying, but then the system must be final. In the Netherlands, the consumer association has carried out a test to determine whether it is possible to rob people via their bank card with NFC chip. They did this by applying for a mobile payment device and using it to make payments through people's pockets and handbags that they didn't know about. It is crucial that users of these bank cards can rely on a closed system, otherwise things will go wrong. Minister, I would like to hear from you: Have there been cases in Belgium of pickpocketing via a bankaart with NFC chip? Can you guarantee the consumer that the use of contactless bank cards is safe? How does a possible complaint about unjust debiting proceed? In a classic transaction there is the PIN code. If that PIN is entered, it is assumed that the customer himself has done so, because he is responsible for that. If no PIN is not used, how can a customer prove that an operation is unjustified?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u71	Febelfin, whom we consulted in response to your question, has informed us not to be aware of any complaints. Also, the Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy has not received any specific complaints to date. There are contactless cards with no secret code, but also with a secret code. The security of transactions without PIN is based on a number of protection measures applied by the sector. For example, the maximum amount of non-pin payment by means of a contactless card has been set at 25 euros. Where the cumulative value of consecutive payments is 50 euros, the client must make a payment using a PIN before being able to make another transaction without a pin. Febelfin stresses that contactless cards without PIN are only offered by a very limited number of banks. The starting point should be that the switch to contactless payments results in a faster and more efficient form of payment for the consumer and for the trader. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure the security and privacy of the customer and of his financial data. The client should also exercise normal caution in storing and using his card. If an operation gives rise to dispute, the client must immediately contact his bank or designated third party to have the card blocked. There are cards with contact both with and without PIN code. Contactless cards can also be with or without PIN. The same rules apply in all cases in accordance with the legal rules of book 7 of the Economic Law Code. Where a user denies giving consent to the execution of a payment operation or claims that the payment operation has not been carried out correctly, his bank shall provide evidence that the operation has been authenticated, properly recorded and booked and not affected by a technical malfunction or any other failure. The fact that card usage is registered does not automatically mean that the cardholder has allowed the transaction. In the event of a dispute, the bank shall be liable for losses from the date of notification of loss or theft by the cardholder, unless the bank can prove that the cardholder is guilty of gross negligence or fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u72	Minister, the security measures are what they are today. Practice will have to show what will happen in the event of a dispute. It is almost impossible for a bank to prove that a customer has made a transaction. When 20 euros are paid to the cash register of a supermarket, no identity or PIN code is registered. So it's gonna be a well-nuke game. The sector will therefore be anxious to monitor how the number of disputes will evolve and how it can intervene. I understand, however, that the sector is confident for the time being. Then so do I, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u73	Mr Minister, people who have been refused three times or who have received the very high proposal of five times the minimum premium can contact the car charging agency. New figures from the charging agency show that between 1 November 2014 and 31 October 2015 33 310 drivers submitted an application to obtain a car insurance BA. This is an increase of 27.4 % compared to the same period a year earlier and the highest number of applications since its creation. At 90% of the persons were also effectively offered an insurance tariff proposal. 24 000 drivers or 80% finally responded to the proposal. Can you tell me, Minister, whether the increase is due to the growing awareness of the charging agency, or whether insurers have become more stringent? For what reason is 10% of applicants not even proposed a rate? Are these people excluded from car traffic or are there other solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u74	The increase in applications can be attributed, inter alia, to the deteriorating economic situation, leading to stricter acceptance and cancellation policies for insurance undertakings. The increase in the number of default cases is a sign of this. In addition, many insurers will need to strengthen their own capital under the new solvency obligations, which will lead to a better return on capital. The Agency should in principle propose a rate to all applicants and thus provide a solution for all applicants who have to drive a motor vehicle. The premium is, of course, tailored to the risk corresponding to the applicant's profile. Only if the file remains incomplete, the applicant does not have a driving licence valid in Belgium, the vehicle is not Homologised or there are medical indications that the applicant is unable to drive the vehicle, the Agency cannot propose charging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u75	Thank you for that clear and complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u76	Minister, you will remember that in September last year traders had to wait more than a week for payments to be paid out due to a technical defect in payment processor Atos Worldline. This threatened the liquidity of several traders. This is a situation which must not be repeated in the future. You asked the National Bank to carry out an audit, but you also wanted to go one step further by putting forward a bill that would give the supervisory authority, the National Bank, more tools to act harder in the future if such a situation were to arise again. At the same time, negotiations were under way between Atos Worldline and the trade federations to obtain guarantees for the future as well as compensation for the damage suffered. We discussed this at the time in plenary. In the meantime, these negotiations have been over for several months and have brought about a solution which all parties seem to be satisfied with. I would have liked to hear the following from you, given that there has been a general agreement between the two sides of industry. Has the audit you requested from the National Bank been completed and what is the outcome of this? Do you still intend to submit a draft law, despite the existing agreement between Atos Worldline and the trade federations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u77	Mr President, it has been a while since those incidents took place at Atos Worldline and let us hope that it will be a long time before there are new problems. You are right, there was then, in October 2015 following the incidents at Atos Worldline by the National Bank of Belgium, which has to respond as a supervisor to the payment institutions, an audit process started with respect to Atos Worldline. That audit process has been completed. Since this audit is covered by the statutory provisions of confidentiality by the bank, in particular Article 35 of the Law of 22 February 1998 laying down the Bank's organisational status, its outcome can only be shared by the bank with Atos Worldline and not with other parties. So I myself am not aware of what the result is, but I understand that it has been completed. However, that is for the bank and the supervisor. The National Bank must do its job and I assume that it has done so brilliantly. However, the second part is even more important. There is indeed a need for a law that tightens up the stability and continuity of retail payments in Belgium. That's important. I asked the National Bank to draw up a proposal. That proposal, which is good news again, will be ready in the near future. So basically, it can't take long. Once I have received it, I will, of course, consult with Minister Van Overtveldt, as the powers of the National Bank and those of the Government must be respected. After all, I am not the only competent minister. I will therefore consult on this when I have received the proposal from the National Bank and then we can discuss it, because it is not covered by Article 35 of the Law of 22 February 1998.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u78	Mr. Secretary, I've discovered an audit report that you can't see. That's pretty good in itself. I cannot, of course, say anything about a proposal that is still in preparation. I understand that the situation is sufficient at the moment, but that does not, of course, rule out any future problems. We will look at the draft together with you and ensure that the first objective is maintained, in particular that it does not happen in the sector anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 9304 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Quickenborne's 9323 lapses as he is not present. Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 9470 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u80	Minister, since the entry into force of the MiFID regulation, it is prohibited to practice overcommissions that create a real conflict of interest between brokers and insured persons. They had the effect of inflating the prices to the detriment of the insured as they were passed on by the insurer to the premiums. However, it appears that brokers and insurers have reintegrated them into remuneration arrangements in other forms, either by increasing basic commissioning or by specific compensation agreements for portfolio contributions (remuneration for customer contributions). As a result, brokers are encouraged to move risks on a regular basis, for no reason other than to receive one shot pay at the expense of insured persons, that goes without saying. Minister, the system of fees in the Netherlands, for example, seems much fairer and fairer when the broker has every interest in choosing the insurer on the basis of the insured person and not on the basis of his own commission. Do you not think that this method of paying brokers should be given priority? Should not one shot pay for customer input be prohibited because it is treated as overcommissions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u81	Mrs Lalieux, the MiFID regulation contains different rules designed to better protect consumers by ensuring that their interests are adequately taken into account. These include rules on any remuneration received or paid by an insurance intermediation service provider and rules on the management of conflicts of interest. The rules on remuneration received or paid by an insurance intermediation service provider shall in particular imply that its remuneration cannot affect the client's interests and that it must improve the quality of the service provided to that customer. The management of conflicts of interest implies, inter alia, that insurance intermediation service providers identify situations that may cause conflicts of interest and take the necessary measures to ensure that they do not arise to the detriment of the client. In relation to your concerns, it should be noted that the recently adopted Directive on the distribution of insurance strengthens existing rules by providing that Member States ensure that distributors of insurance products are not remunerated or assess the preferences of their employees in a way that runs counter to their obligations to act in the best interests of their customers. In particular, an insurance product distributor makes no provision in the form of remuneration for sales or other objectives that may encourage him or his staff to recommend a particular insurance product to a customer while the insurance product distributor may offer another product that would better meet the customer's needs. In Belgium as in the Netherlands, an insurance broker, on the basis of the existing rules, must therefore choose the insurer on the basis of the insured person and not on the basis of commissions. For the surplus of Level 2 delegated acts, they are expected to the European Commission both in the implementation of the MiFID 2 Directive and the IDD Directive, it is indeed desirable to adopt a European approach in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u82	Thank you. So, if I understand correctly, you do not deny that there is a customer support system that has replaced the overcommissions, which are prohibited by MiFID 1. If I understand correctly, there will be a new 'insurance' directive and MiFID 2 which will prohibit all these practices and copy a little of the Dutch model. This directive has already been adopted and is apparently published... it has yet to be transposed into Belgian law. I hope that it will not take two years for this transposition to take place because there are indeed difficulties in transferring commissions elsewhere and subsequently the proposed product does not correspond to the customer. So I'm waiting for you, but if you don't hurry, I'll table a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you deal with the two remaining issues among the colleagues present, namely those of Mrs Lalieux and Mr Klaps. It should be noted that Question No 9632 by Mrs Lalieux is withdrawn because it deals with the same object as the one she is going to ask now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u84	Mr President, Minister, my question is relevant because we are in the debate on mortgages. Recently, there was publicity about the mortgage. When you passed your bill to the government, you said in a press release: "Making a mortgage credit for buying a house is not a simple thing to do. I want the consumer to be better informed. As a result of the new rules, consumers will be able to compare the terms of the various loans with different banks more easily." A month later, BNP Paribas Fortis' digital bank started an online mortgage market via Hello Bank! The conditions for the conclusion of these mortgage contracts are more than questionable: fixed rate and duration imposed, a period of 15 days for acceptance, impossibility to negotiate. Between the submission of the application and the acceptance of the bank only takes a few minutes. All this does not work for consumers and can make them believe that they will have a better rate by not going through a banking agency! This suddenly becomes an impulsive loan without a moment of reflection. Minister, what about the obligations arising from the new legislation in this novelty and the follow-up to the MiFID rules that you have just mentioned? Shouldn't your services be alerted so that controls and actions are put in place? BNP Paribas Fortis highlights the "siplicity" and "facility" of this offer. Isn't that precisely what is questionable? As you pointed out, engaging in a mortgage is not a decision that can be made lightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, the existing law on mortgage credit currently offers little means of action for the Economic Inspectorate. To date, there has been no specific provision regulating the advertising of mortgage credit offers. The Inspectorate could rely on the provisions of the Code of Economic Law on unfair professional practices against consumers, including advertising, and more specifically on provisions on misleading commercial practices. As part of the bill that I have tabled, any commercial and advertising communication relating to credit agreements will have to be fair, clear and not misleading. I haven't examined your project yet, but I'm sure you have the same philosophy. As with consumer credit, the bill that I introduced, as you have seen, contains strict advertising provisions for mortgage offers. This bill prohibits advertising and commercial communication for a credit agreement specifically focused on the development of the ease and speed with which credit can be obtained. I am convinced that you are now very positive about the bill that is on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u86	Minister, I am convinced that there are good things in this bill. There are not enough, but there are obviously good things. I never said otherwise. Good if there is the possibility that the SPF Economy, the Economic Inspectorate is the armed arm. They are working very well on these unfair advertising issues. But here, it's much worse. It's about signing a mortgage over the internet. It's not just advertising. A mortgage is obtained via the internet. I think maybe you should seize them in relation to that. I don't see how they can comply with all the MiFID rules in two weeks. Probably the FPS Economy can act. There is no personalized contact. We enter his data and, within an hour, they answer yes or no. I think that goes further than advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u87	The last question, but not the least, is that of Mr Klaps. Mr Klaps, can you put your question briefly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u88	Mr President, Minister, your cabinet, together with Minister Borsus' cabinet, has drawn up a draft law to eliminate the injustice that existed between architects and contractors in the area of insurance obligations. That is a step in the right direction. Previously, architects were obliged to take out an insurance guaranteeing their liability, including ten-year liability, unlike contractors, who were not obliged to do so. However, there are still strong doubts about the draft law that is now on the table. According to the architects, the reduction of insurance obligations to closed construction and immovable property destined for housing will lead to distortions in the profession. For example, Architects in school building will no longer be obliged to insure themselves against liability. The architect's joint and several commitment to the payment of the debts which the contractor's liability would entail, while this is not the case vice versa, also criticises the draft law. Furthermore, there are also doubts about the monitoring of compliance with insurance obligations. Mr Minister, since it is important for architects, contractors, consumers and users of buildings to draw up a final draft law, I would like to ask you whether you have already taken note of the above-mentioned and possibly other points of criticism. Are there any discussions planned with the sector to optimise the draft law? If so, where and when? If not, why not? When will a final draft be submitted to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are dossiers which are felt to be blood, sweat and tears. The reprography file is such a dossier, including the mortgage loan file, that we have just discussed, and the dossier that we are now raising is one of those. Mr Klaps, I can confirm that I have received and analysed many comments, suggestions and criticisms from many stakeholders. There's been a lot of consultation. I am not under any illusions, however, that if we submit a draft of legislation, everyone in this committee will also receive a lot of e-mails and comments. However, we have not yet reached that stage. As the different stakeholders have conflicting interests, you will not be surprised that their suggestions and comments are difficult to reconcile. As far as my colleague, Minister Borsus, is concerned, we have also sought a balance of interests. We think that I am cautious, because during this period, the Batibouw exhibition is also running that we have now found a balance that provides an answer to the current discrimination between architects and contractors in relation to ten-year liability. At the same time, the scheme limits the cost of insurance, both for the sector and for the consumer. We cannot go into the problem in detail, but we will have plenty of time to do so. In France, the cost price has been increased at a certain point in time. I hope that during the next few weeks, together with Mr Borsus, I will be able to complete the draft law and submit it to the Council of Ministers. We will make our vision clear in the next few days. I assume that we will also have very interesting discussions in committee on the draft law, and perhaps a hearing, Mr President, but that is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u90	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u91	Mr Minister, I will await the draft and debate it, whether or not with hearings, or with content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic356x.u92	With regard to the organization of work, questions which have not been answered on the basis of question No. 9569 (agenda item 44) are deferred. I propose that we devote the whole day of 15 March to our committee because I do not think the morning will be enough for the project, given the thickness of the file. I think we'll work until 6:00 p.m., if you can stay until that time. I suggest that after the project, we put the remaining questions if we have time before 6:00 p.m. Having said that, the meeting was adjourned.
