ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u1	Mr President, I had initially also addressed my two questions to Minister Borsus. As they go back a few weeks, I will try to summarize them. Minister, on January 1st, the measures regarding the reductions in contributions voted under the tax shift took effect. The most symbolic, the exemption from lifetime contributions for the creation of a first job, made a lot of talk about it. The latter is aimed at a large public, since any private enterprise, including an LSA, which hires a first full-time or part-time worker via a CDI is concerned. The government's first job is that the company in question has no longer occupied any worker for at least four consecutive quarters. In addition, the exemption from social contributions relates to basic employer contributions, not to any sectoral special contributions. I am thinking, in this case, of contributions to sectoral security funds or contributions to closure funds, for example. Finally, in the various communications, there is a question of safeguards that will be put in place to avoid possible abuses and that the ONSS would be finalising. Madam Minister, as you know, we voted in favour of these various contribution reduction measures, while asking the government to pay close attention to the potential benefits that they could bring. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. What safeguards are envisaged by the ONSS to avoid possible abuses arising from the measure that eliminates social security contributions for life? What audits will be conducted by the NSS with the companies that will use this measure? In addition to the indefinite nature of the employment contract, is it envisaged to determine a minimum period during which the person hired will remain in the undertaking in order to benefit from this measure? Last January, some companies expressed their fears through the press because they felt that they were potentially unfairly competing because of this provision. Indeed, these entrepreneurs denounced possible social dumping. One of them was concerned: "Reduced contributions on the first jobs already existed, but were extinguished after five years. Here, the zero contribution on the first job is for life. By not benefiting from it, because I already employ two workers, I will lose 270 000 euros over my entire career for the next job I will create." Indeed, he would not be entitled to these contributions, since he already employs workers. Other entrepreneurs highlighted the fact that some of their competitors, particularly in the Horeca and building sectors, could hire their first employee in 2016 with a de facto competitive advantage that could put other companies in difficulty; indeed, it is known that competition is very harsh especially in these two sectors. One might wonder whether the zeroing of social contributions for any new employment created in 2016 would not have been more equitable had the measure been applied for any first job created by all companies. The cost would of course not have been the same, but it would have prevented a competitive distortion. In concrete terms, do you still intend to adapt the measure by expanding or putting more precise safeguards to avoid unfair competition? Do you also intend to take additional action for specific business lines? I have quoted the Horeca and the building sector because they are particularly affected by an imbalance in the zero lifetime contribution system. Finally, can you already give us figures on the number of first jobs that would have been created by April 1, 2016 thanks to the zero lifetime contribution measure. Indeed, yesterday, a communication was made by Minister Borsus saying that there was a sharp increase in the number of first jobs created. Can you confirm that there is a link to the measures you have taken that came into effect on January 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u2	The reason for my similar question is an opinion of the National Labour Council, in particular Opinion No. 1 964. That advice came after the adjustments to your KB, Madam Secretary. I'm surprised that no emergency advice was requested from the NAR about the Royal Decree. Why didn't you? There are a number of interesting things in that opinion. As Mr Vanden Burre said, employers who make their first recruitment between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2020 will be guaranteed that they will not have to pay contributions for an indefinite period. The employers' organisations wonder to what extent the different treatment introduced can be justified, depending on the time of recruitment. What answer do you have to that question from the employers' organizations? The measure taken involves a number of risk derivatives. The RSZ is pointing that out. For example, Article 353 of the 2002 Programme Act allows to maintain an existing reduction for one target group in another company, for example after a merger. The RSZ points out the risk that companies benefiting from the exemption for one employee would merge in order to be exempt from contributions for an unlimited period of time for a group of employees. That's not supposed to happen, is it? What will you do to prevent such abuses? Another possible risk is that the managers of companies which they have set up can switch from the independent status to the employees' statute, thus exempting them from patronial contributions. This can lead to structural imbalances. They then move from the social security system for self-employed workers to the social security system for employees. In this way, the social security of workers begins to finance the social security of the so-called improper self-employed. According to the RSZ, this could be avoided by excluding persons who today have the status of assisting wife, helper or self-employed in their own company. What is your opinion on this? Has your colleague responsible for social security for self-employed persons, Mr Borsus, taken any initiatives in this area? Apparently, there's another risk. In your view, is there a danger that an employee who can be recruited without social contributions will be posted abroad and will be allowed to work there at competitive rates? I find it difficult to assess whether that danger is real or not. I would like to hear it from you; it is certainly included in the NAR's opinion. The social partners and Mr Vanden Burre have rightly asked questions about the calculation of pay-back effects and employment effects. How did these effects be calculated? I, like the social partners, would like some information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u3	Madam Chair, I will attach my two questions and update them as they were tabled in January and water sank under the bridges. A royal decree has been issued since then. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you first of all about the opinion of the National Labour Council and, in particular, about the arguments put forward by workers' representatives and those of employers about the risk of social dumping. How do you analyze this? Do you think that the legal scheme can promote unfair competition? Have you examined the solutions that can be made? For the worst of the worst would be to maintain a system that aggravates social dumping already very present in us where there are many job losses. The second point on which I would like you to provide answers concerns some very interesting cases. They clearly attest to legal uncertainty and may lead to abuse. On the question of the replacement of the worker, a royal order was issued. Now, for example, it is no longer possible for an independent individual to enter society and hire staff. But several other situations are not locked in and were not foreseen at the time of the drafting of the law. We've already talked about it. I will give you two examples. First, what if there is a replacement? You will probably refer me to the royal decree, which I would reply that your answer is not timely because the operating technical unit has not been legally defined. In so doing, the judge will always have the final say in the matter. It is clear, therefore, that the remaining blurry can lead to abuse. Secondly, by ignoring the assumption that workers would be replaced, what happened in the case of a genuine commitment, but that there was an abuse of the system at the assembly level? Let us take the case of the same organisation within the meaning of an operating technical unit, hence the same construction site. A first worker is hired by an entrepreneur in person, a second is hired by the girl company, and a third is hired by the parent company. These three workers work on the same site, but legally, they have a different employer and are considered to be the first worker for each employer when it is, in reality, the same organization. The legislation did not provide for any beacons in this regard. It therefore allows abuse. It also creates significant legal uncertainty. Minister, with regard to these examples – and these are only examples among others – it is time to conduct a full legal analysis and provide for a number of additional locks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the extension of the target group reduction for the first recruitment, I can say that the National Social Security Office is closely monitoring the use of the measure through a monitoring system that identifies certain trends in employment and investigates potentially suspicious situations. There will therefore be constant monitoring of the impact of this measure within the services of our National Social Security Office. For example, in the context of the reduction in the target group for the first recruitment, it will be examined whether there will be an abnormally large number of new registrations from employers in the coming quarters, which may indicate an improper use of the measure. At the same time, the turnover and history of the employees in these employers are monitored. The checks are also carried out in collaboration with the National Institute for Social Insurance of Self-employed Persons. For example, it can be verified whether certain persons known to a social insurance fund for selfemployed persons are at some point subject to a declaration to the National Social Security Office. We will therefore be able to determine whether people move from one system to another, as Mr Vercamer has already pointed out, especially in the capacity of a first employee who enjoys a zero contribution for the life of the company. On the basis of these trends, a targeted study of unintended consequences of strengthening and extending the measure can also be carried out in the coming quarters. If it appears that certain practices are not in line with the initial objective, additional legislative work will be carried out if necessary. It should be stressed that the reduction cannot be applied if the newly recruited worker replaces an employee who has worked in the same technical unit during the previous four quarters. That's an existing article we didn't have to invent here. This concerns Article 344 of the Programme Act of 24 December 2002. So we should not take that back because that legislation already exists. This has already been the case for enlargement and the strengthening of the target group reduction. This is also checked by the control services and possibly by the social inspection services of the National Social Security Office. The reduction can be continued in case of absorption or merger. As a result, the same company may indeed have several employees for whom the contribution has been reduced to zero. The use of such continuations is also monitored by the National Social Security Office. Mr Vercamer, it is easy to organise mergers, but I would like to point out that a merger of two or three companies is not as simple as it seems. Merging just like that will only cost more. But it's possible. We need to know that inventiveness has no limits. So that will also be checked. With regard to possible abuse by secondments, the current legislative framework and the existing control possibilities are sufficient until further notice. Detachments abroad are therefore also monitored. The aim of the measure is indeed to speed up the process of recruiting a first employee and, in other words, to create jobs. Employers who have recruited employees before 1 January 2016 will not enjoy the same benefits, but there is also a difference in treatment with each newly introduced target group reduction. This difference is mitigated by the introduction of a transitional measure for recruitments in 2015. It is not entirely clear to me in what extent there would be a disadvantage, since it is a general measure which all private employers can use. About the minimum employment period, I can say that for all target group reductions there must be at least 27.5 % on a quarterly basis in order to benefit from the benefit. With regard to employment and spin-off effects, it was announced to the social partners that €300 million was chosen as a fallback from the shift tax in 2016, including the extension and strengthening of the first target group reduction. This amount is based on an internal 2014 study of the Federal Office of the Plan, in which the impact of deduction of employer contributions for an amount equal to 0.5% of GDP was simulated, in particular about two billion euros over five years, corresponding to the measures of reduction of employer contributions adopted via the tax shift for that same period. That's the way we calculated it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I do not know if you already have any figures to give us. You didn't really talk about the latest numbers. Yesterday there was a communication from your colleague, Mr Borsus, on the increase in the creation of the first jobs. So I wanted to see if you confirmed the numbers or not. We'll go back to that if we have to. As I told Minister Borsus ten days ago about the same issues, we know how fundamental the first job created in young businesses, in SMEs, in start-ups is. This is a very important step in their development. The very principle of supporting this step and this step is something positive that goes in the right direction. Now, in order for a measure like this to be effective and precisely target this principle, it is obviously necessary that the effects of bounty and some potential cannibalization be avoided. Otherwise, we will do worse than better, and we will potentially destroy jobs in sectors I mentioned in the question. That is the objective of this question. I think that we will have to go back and insist on doing so because once again, the objective of this measure is that it is effective and that it meets the principles underlying job creation. That is also why I am asking you about the figures announced yesterday. Indeed, this is where it will be necessary to be precise. What figure of net job creation can be seen? To say that the first jobs are increasing is good, but it is clear, as my colleagues have explained in examples, that reality can be truncated. We know very well that there can be mechanisms that lead to the creation of fake jobs. Therefore, we should be very careful and I invite you, as I have asked your colleague Minister Borsus, to provide us with figures outside of any premature triumphalism, because yesterday's communication seemed to me to be in that direction. Let's be precise! We all have an interest in seeing job creation for starters increase in the country. So let us make sure that it is a net job creation and not a boon effect! That's what I wanted to insist on!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This indicates that there is a risk that these abuses will occur. If we had asked for the advice of the social partners in advance, which had not happened, we might have been able to deal with this in the regulatory framework in order to minimise that risk. Furthermore, I understand that after one quarter, you will not be able to state whether or not something is going on. However, I would urge that, after the second quarter, before we go on holiday, we get some data automatically, especially as regards the potential risk for businessmen of self-established companies. To see if there are any shifts, we should have the figures of two quarters. After all, this goes beyond personal abuse. If this were to exist and happen, it would be abuse of the system. It will then have effects on the income and expenditure of two different social security systems, and that can never be the intention. We need to follow this very closely. After the second quarter, we should be able to get some insight into this for the first time and we should automatically get the data through the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u7	I do not know if you have heard correctly, but precisely because this has to be followed closely, a monitoring committee has been set up. We will have the figures, but not before it has started. With regard to the NAR's opinion, we had a first one on 15 December, but only on the first recruitments. The opinion on this 33 % was delivered later. Of course, there have been several contacts between the Cabinet and the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u8	Madam Minister, a monitoring is good. But, if I may say so, you've worked backwards. And I agree in part with Mr Vercamer's remarks. These questions arose from the beginning. Today's practice confirms that, because of the legislative blurry, the lack of consultation among those with the most expertise in this field, namely the social partners, problematic situations have now been created. Every day, employers ask each other these questions. In essence, Madam Minister, you confirm that no sanction can be applied in the event of an abuse of recruitment at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u10	Madam Chair, may I ask you to moderate the meeting? Minister, I take the example I gave you earlier. From the moment you have not defined the operating technical unit, you will have no means a posteriori to invent a sanction. Today, you have clearly created a competitive distortion machine because employers will hire – and will have committed in accordance with the rules and philosophy – a zero-contributory person, unlike others. And I repeat my example of the entrepreneur who hires a worker in person, a second by the girl company and a third by the parent company. This makes three people on a zero-contributory site each time being the first worker. This case exists. The employers told me about it. This employer will have a much more favourable situation than one that has fulfilled a single zero contribution commitment. As a result, an unfair competition machine is created. There were, however, possibilities, for example, to define the operating technical unit, including for commitment and not just for the replacement component. Madam Minister, I invite you, together with the whole government and therefore the majority, to really look at this problem today and to work with the social partners, because all these questions are on the ground. These are not theoretical questions. Employers are faced with this. This gives legal uncertainty and creates an unfair competition machine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir, No 8308 by Mrs Kitir,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u12	Minister, this question is more than three months old. On 29 December the Regulation of 18 November 2015 amending the Regulation of 16 April 1997 implementing Article 80, 5° of the Law on compulsory health care and allowances insurance was published in the Belgian Moniteur, coordinated on 14 July 1994. Thus, now, the attending physician must also mention the probable termination date of the incapacity for work on the certificate of incapacity for work for mutual benefit. On recognition of incapacity for work, the medical adviser may, in turn, immediately fix a date of termination or call the person concerned for a medical examination on the basis of which he or she will determine whether or not an end date is to be determined. Under the new Regulation, the certificate of incapacity for work, which is intended for mutual benefit, has been presented differently since 1 January 2016. The aim of the new regulations is, inter alia, to enable the medical consultant to assess whether or not a multidisciplinary reintegration plan is necessary. Could you explain this point in more detail? Thus, from now on, the attending physician will mention both the start date and the presumed end date of the incapacity for work. So far, the date of commencement of incapacity was sufficient. On the other hand, these innovations are not anodized. In this context, and thanks to your hat as Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, I would like to know whether the Order of Physicians has been consulted, including on the content. Have physicians and their representatives been consulted in this context? Will the occupational doctor be involved? If so, how? Will he become aware of the contents of the medical certificate? I would like a specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u13	Mrs Fonck, first of all, I would like to make it clear that this medical certificate is part of the obligation of the social insured to have his incapacity to work declared in order to be able to open up his entitlement to compensation, and that he must transmit the mutual care doctor to whom he is affiliated. Since 1 January 2016, a new model medical certificate has been drawn up and published in the Belgian Monitor on 29 December 2015. This new model now provides for the possibility for the attending physician to mention the date of termination of incapacity for work, as it already does with respect to the employer. As part of the recognition of incapacity for work, the medical consultant will set the end date or call the person concerned for a medical examination in order to be able to determine the end date of the incapacity for work. The new model certificate also provides for the possibility for the attending physician to mention his telephone contact details and e-mail address, with a view to enhancing communication between the consulting physician and the attending physician, while respecting medical confidentiality and personal data. In addition, I can confirm that the development of the content of this new model of medical certificate was carried out through a working group involving the medical departments of the insurers. The contents of this certificate have also been submitted for advice to the Order of Physicians, Domus Medica, the scientific societies of general medicine and the trade union representatives of doctors. They were able to make recommendations, such as the importance of the contact details to be mentioned by the treating physicians in order to strengthen the dialogue, as well as the description of the current profession to be completed by the social insured on the part of the corresponding medical certificate. This new model of medical certificate has been approved by the members of the Management Committee for Employee Compensation Insurance and the Management Committee for Self-Employed Workers. Finally, it is important to point out that the new medical-mutualist agreement of 2016-2017, published in the Belgian Monitor of 27 January 2016, specifies that it is essential that the sector dealing with be more closely associated with the problem of incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you. There was consultation and opinions were delivered. This answers most of my questions. It's important. I think you still have to keep an eye on the "path" of this certificate. You know that it is not always easy to indicate end dates, especially for heavier diseases. According to the decree published, this certificate will resume diagnosis, but also symptomatology, possible functional disorders, and professional and social difficulties may be mentioned. This means that the content of the medical certificate is expanded. I agree with you about the importance of closely articulating the various doctors, in particular the occupational doctor and the general practitioner, but we must be careful about the content and the "path" of the certificate so that it is not used outside the framework of medical secrecy in the strict sense of the term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 8770 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u16	Madam Secretary, this is an open question that has been on the shelves for quite some time. This is not a new debate. The federal government took the initiative in 2007 to establish the Asbestos Fund. This fund makes it possible to obtain compensation if people become ill as a result of exposure to asbestos. It is true that certain conditions must be met. This question is a result of a study proposed in December 2015, which examined the effects of exposure to asbestos and its effect on life expectancy. According to this study, the employees of the companies in Kapelle-op-den-Bos, Tichelt and Harmignies would have lost up to twenty years of their lives compared to the average lifetime. In the light of this study, ABEVA, the Association of Asbestos Victims in Belgium, reiterated its plea for further improvements, such as improved awareness and prevention at a different policy level, the promotion of further research into asbestos-related diseases and further improvement of the reimbursement system. Madam Secretary, you will know those reports, as will ABEVA's wishes. Do you intend to take any further action in this legislature? If so, which one? Sensitisation and prevention, including through education and training, are of course very important, but as I said, these are powers of the Regions and the Communities. Is there a consultative body on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u17	Madam President, this is not exactly the same question, because mine is about bitumen. Minister, a recent study by Mensura shows that workers working with bitumen are exposed to important chemical agents. In addition, in summer, bitumen are also photosensitizing, which increases the effects of ultraviolet rays. Skin cancer caused by bitumen as well as bronchopulmonary and cancer related to inhalation and exposure to bitumen are also on the list of occupational diseases established by the European Union. However, practice shows that workers are rarely informed of the risks they face and safety and hygiene rules on roadworks are not always respected. Thus, according to a survey conducted by the CSC of 231 companies, only 47% of workers have respiratory protection. In addition, only 6% of construction sites have showers and 10% have washbasins. The CSC has recently called for, among other things, an intensification of controls by the police and inspection services. Minister, do you have any figures on bitumen exposure-related conditions for workers? In your opinion, are the information on the dangerousness of the products and the necessary preventive measures sufficiently explained and repeated to the workers concerned? Could you clarify the number of inspections carried out in recent years and their results? In view of the above, should the government not intensify the monitoring of social inspections in order to ensure compliance with the above-mentioned rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, the Scientific Council of the Fund for Occupational Diseases regularly examines the problems of the diseases that could be recognised under the Asbestos Fund. The Scientific Council, for example, examined the possible causal link between asbestos exposure and ovarian cancer at its meeting in January 2016. The Council has decided that ovarian cancer can be caused by high exposure to asbestos. These conclusions will soon be submitted to the Management Committee of the Fund for Occupational Diseases, after which, I believe, the appropriate conclusions will be drawn. In order to improve the financial compensation provided by the Asbestos Fund, the Asbestos Fund's repayment possibilities were extended by the Act of 26 February 2014. The victims of asbestos are now entitled to reimbursement of health care and to compensation for assistance from third parties, if necessary. Although there is no specific mechanism of early retirement for workers exposed to the risk caused by asbestos, I note that there are special provisions under collective agreement No. 114 in favour of workers over 58 years of age who have been exposed to asbestos for more than two years and who have serious physical problems. Some of it could be included. The Asbestos Fund has done a lot in the past to make itself known. We think it would be desirable to make an additional communication effort, if necessary, for the self-employed, for example. That is why I will ask the Asbestos Fund to contact the RSVZ with a view to a more targeted communication for people who may not already know that the fund exists. Regions and Communities may contact the Asbestos Fund directly if they wish to use the knowledge available there in the context of the organisation of prevention campaigns. You know that most of the people who end up in the Asbestos Fund have been exposed many years ago. The prevention campaigns are important, for example when it comes to the demolition of old buildings. With us in the area there are many eater plates. Many old houses that are sold often have a whole row of outbuildings in the back. Its demolition must be carried out by a specialised firm, with the necessary protection for anyone who comes near it. Before answering Mrs Fonck's question on the figures, it was necessary to explain the risk factors and occupational disease in relation to the exposure of victims recognised in Belgium. First, for skin diseases caused by bitumen, two categories are recognized: burn-like skin conditions caused by the phototoxic effect of bitumen and delayed eczema-like lesions caused by the photosensitizing effect of bitumen, and skin cancer. Skin lesions caused by exposure to ultraviolet radiation may, in a small percentage of cases, develop into cancer. Actinic keratosis is considered to be the pre-cancer precursors of spinocellular carcinomas, which are very dangerous. This topic was studied by the Scientific Council of the Occupational Diseases Fund in 2014. Following its work, the Scientific Council proposed the recognition of these two diseases by setting criteria based on these studies. Second, for broncho-pulmonary lesions, the risk comes from exposure to the smokes and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons they contain. The risk involved depends primarily on the weather and confined environment, the composition of the bitumen used and the application temperature. The risk of lung cancer has decreased sharply. Since the 1970s, oil bitumen have replaced those containing tars and coal derivatives. Other factors have also significantly reduced exposure, i.e. process changes (dispersion of some high-exposed positions, decrease in application temperatures) and changes in compositions. With regard to statistics, the figures for cases recognized by the Occupational Diseases Fund are limited. The Occupational Diseases Fund is not competent for all workers. Independents and non-local government officials are not included. In addition, the link between illness and occupational exposure is not necessarily made. It's an understatement effect. The categories of bitumen workers are included in the fairly broad categories: construction workers, roadworks and roads. However, I can give the following figures. There are not many of them, but, as I have just said, this is probably the result of an understatement. Over the past 15 years, there have been 14 recognized cases of skin diseases and 22 cases of diseases caused by chemical agents. Finally, issues relating to primary prevention and FPS inspection services Employment, Labour and Social Concertation (ETCS) do not fall within my purview, but within the purview of Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is a good thing that we are still taking steps in the recognition of certain diseases, because I believe that investigations make it increasingly clear that the consequences are greater than was long thought. I believe that there are still steps to be taken to prevent the destruction of old buildings. In the past, our party has tabled a bill to prevent a question to the Asbestos Fund from automatically implying that a trial should not be initiated. I should have included this in my question. I will look at this again anyway, because I think it is a wrong principle that the creation of a fund on which one can recover its costs means that legal proceedings should no longer be initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u20	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. We are faced with an understatement of importance. Like what happened with asbestos, there is a very important latency time between the first exposures to bitumen and the appearance of the first symptoms or, in any case, pathologies. This time is well over ten years. That, in my view, is partly the reason for this sub-declaration. Madam Minister, I would like to highlight one point. Although some components have been modified, it would be naive to believe that bitumen and hydrocarbons are no longer toxic. In this respect, it would therefore be essential to step up the preventive dynamics, particularly with regard to the use of protective measures, especially since a number of people are not followed by occupational medicine; I am thinking of the self-employed, to take just one example. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that there may be case law in this area. Indeed, the Lyon Court of Appeal ruled in 2012 on the link between the death of a worker and the latter's exposure to bitumen projections. It would therefore be important to take further preventive measures in Belgium in the area of protection, including self-employed persons, since, as everyone knows, a number of them are working in the construction and roadworks sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 8891 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u22	Madam Minister, although I have already asked a few questions on this issue, I would like to bring them to the attention of the House once again. Former public hospitals face difficulties in financing civil servants' pensions. There are quite a few fusions with private hospitals and those merger hospitals no longer recruit statutory officials, in accordance with the global agreement in Flanders. This means that the pension fund of local authorities has problems, by having to pay more and more pensions with fewer contributions, as a result of fewer statutory officials. The previous governments have taken a number of measures in this respect. In 2011, employers' contributions to the statutory civil servants' betting were increased and, in order to prevent local authorities and hospitals from evading solidarity by no longer holding officials, the response contribution was introduced. Since then, public hospitals have been paying the RSZPPO in the meantime that has become DIBISS an additional contribution that is proportionate to the gap between contributions and the deficit to pay the concrete pension costs. The government agreement states literally: "The policy of neutralizing the contributions of hospitals affiliated to the Consolidated Pension Fund of the RSZPPO to compensate for the pension costs of their statutory staff is continued." However, we are told that no budget would have been made available for this year. Is that correct, and if so, can you correct that as soon as possible? The mere continuation of the previous compensation alone is not a sufficient solution, as pension charges are constantly increasing, to peak in the years 2021 and 2022, if we can believe the estimate of the RSZPPO. If there is no increased compensation, this creates insurmountable difficulties for public hospitals or merged public hospitals. Secondly, the current regulation also has undesirable effects for contracting or merging parties. Before a new financing law for civil servants' pensions was introduced, they had no knowledge of it. I refer to the introduction of the response contribution and the systematic increase in the contribution rate for the financing of civil servants' pensions from 2012. Almost all former public hospitals that were restructured before 2011 have and had an agreement with external partners, mostly public, sometimes private. If one had known in those contract discussions what was to come of pension costs, both the contribution rates and the contribution contributions, then perhaps other arrangements would have been made. In many cases, the law of the end of 2011 has upset the economic balance between the different parties. One couldn't predict that. Moreover, in 2009, the Flemish public hospitals decided not to recruit any more civil servants. The unitary status for all healthcare personnel in hospitals, both private and public, is still awaited. It was assumed that pension charges would cease if the last statutory retirement was taken out of service, which made sense. The scheme would therefore be phased out, but the Finance Act now provides for 100% of the pension costs to be covered, and thus also for the contribution to redeployment, when the last statutory retirement is due. The current discount falls away. Even if you have only one statutory pension, you will retain 50% discount, but if the last one is gone, that discount will fall away and you will have to pay for the full pension costs. As a result of the previous contractual agreements, some hospitals had to go into liquidation, which means that there would no longer be any statutory contributions, but at some point the full pension costs will be paid to the residual entity or to the relevant OMCWs or municipalities, without any solidarity from the other municipalities. Madam Minister, how will you deal with this, especially with regard to legal certainty and the fair distribution of burdens? Secondly, I would like to have more information on how many hospitals we are talking about today and, for the hospitals concerned, what budget size the total pension contribution will have on average over the next five years. That's how we get a look at it. How much will the net cost be for hospitals, after deduction of the intervention from the Financial Resources Budget. I'd like to get an overview of that. What initiatives will you take in the medium term? It is very important for local authorities to have a look at this with regard to the long-term plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u23	I remember that this dossier caused heating in 2011, when Minister Daerden looked into it and came up with a lot of creativity with a temporary solution for the pins. As a result, this file was not completely resolved and it is now on my plate, now that I am sitting on the other side of the table. We have a fairly good view of the extent of the problem you have outlined. The fact that a large number of hospitals have rightly no longer recruited statutory staff has the effect that the basic pension contribution to be paid by them on the gross salary of these staff will also substantially decrease in the period 2015-2020. According to the DIBISS estimates, the overall amount of basic pension contribution due from 2015 to 2020 would decrease from around 134 million euros in 2015 to around 113 million euros on an annual basis. On the other hand, it is true that, in the same period, the reimbursement contribution due by hospitals will increase as a result of, on the one hand, the falling statutory pay mass and the calculated basic pension contribution and, on the other hand, the increase in pension charges for former hospital staff. This is an estimated increase of 189 million in 2015 to 257 million in 2020. The overall amount of the hospital response contribution will therefore rise from around €26 million per year in 2015 to around €72 million by 2020. This is almost times three. With regard to the use of the envelope for hospitals, I have decided to propose, as part of the tax shift, that the government use this envelope to deal with the problem of public pensions. This amount is in addition to the existing budget for hospitals. This represents 5% of the budget for the non-profit. You know that this was normally 50/50, but I asked for that 5% to be kept separate for hospitals, knowing that at least there is a delicate situation there. This proposal was adopted by the government and my policy cell is currently working on different simulations, taking into account the situation in the different hospitals. We are striving for the best possible use of the resources available. This won't do. It's a first step. There was nothing. It's about an inherited file. I believe that a number of accompanying measures will be needed to find a structural solution to this problem. This aspect, too, is currently being examined by my policy cell. This will result in a number of proposals with which I will have to go to the government at the appropriate time. As far as the legacy of mergers and acquisitions from the past is concerned, I would like to say that all these people are assisted by very well-paid lawyers. I believe that they must also shoulder their own responsibilities for what has happened in this area in recent years. These are indeed nasty discoveries for some. It is often about hospitals that are already in budgetary difficulties for other reasons, so this may be the drop in the bucket. This element must be taken into account and may possibly make subsequent mergers more difficult. That is why we say that there should not always be mergers to work together. We can also work together in networks. We can then work together and we can finance the networks, but we each have our own problem. It's like a living apart together. One holds one's own guilt and one goes on together to get better. I think this is a very heavy dossier that affects several public administrations and hospitals, especially in Flanders, if I may say so. That's not sacred, it's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u24	Madam Minister, we in Flanders have made the agreement that no more statutory posts will be appointed and we will abide by them. That 5 % is a one-time thing. That is very good and we are grateful to you for that, but that will not be enough. There will really need to be a structural injection of additional capital and resources. This is otherwise not sustainable. There must be a structural increase to compensate for this. That is absolutely necessary. I'm curious about the accompanying measures. I will put a question on that. You've given me global figures, but I'd like to get an overview by hospital. I might be able to get that through the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u25	I always invite you to share your knowledge and suggestions with my cabinet. As far as your demand for more resources is concerned, I also invite you to inform your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u26	Of course, but we do have an agreement in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 8937 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u28	Madam President, Minister, this is a question of the state of play. Article 41 of the Law of 17 July 2015 on various health provisions, which entered into force on 27 August, requires sickness funds to disclose their annual accounts by depositing them with the National Bank of Belgium. In all honesty, I thought that was a serious achievement of yours, Madam Secretary. After all, I know that this has been in demand for years and that this has not always been answered with great enthusiasm. The law on various provisions provided that a royal decree would follow which would determine the detailed rules, conditions and format for the submission of the annual accounts on a proposal from the audit authority. In fact, we note that many implementing rules and conditions have been envisaged, including as regards the delivery of a copy in a form to be specified, subject to written request and payment. Furthermore, the National Bank of Belgium is empowered to compile and publish general and anonymous statistics on the whole or part of the data, also in accordance with rules to be laid down by the King. My question is very simple. What progress has been made on the drafting of these implementing decisions? I still have a slightly less simple question, namely whether we can trust that disclosure and transparency will not be unnecessarily delayed or made more difficult, but will apply in the same way to the sickness funds as to the other companies in our country? After all, we are getting quite a few signals that the willingness of some is still not very strong and that efforts are actually being made to achieve the next obligation as little as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u29	Madam President, although my question is actually more related to incapacity for work, it has been merged with the previous one and I shall therefore ask them. Madam Minister, we have often talked about the crucial role of counsellors and sickness funds in the assessment and follow-up of incapacity for work. I have already charged several times that the medical counsellors follow an over-medical approach in the assessment. I have also indicated a number of times that there is at least an indirect conflict of interest under the sickness funds. They must defend the interests of their clients, and if those people want to be declared unfit for work for some reason, it is difficult to be objective about this. The sickness funds are financed on the basis of the number of clients, so any client who goes out of incapacity to work is a loss of income for the sickness funds. In that sense, there is at least an indirect conflict of interest. That is why, in the context of the last budget discussions, you have also announced that there would be a check on and follow up on the abnormal prescription behaviour of counsellors and health insurance funds if there are statistically significant differences. We think that is a very good approach and we welcome the fact that this is being looked at, but I would very much like to hear from you the following. Firstly, how do you see this control more concretely? You also talk about possible action against sickness funds. Do you have any idea what that might mean? Secondly, this is an added question to which you should not answer, but have you ever considered the idea of placing some of the counsellors at the RIZIV or having a check carried out by the RIZIV rather than just a targeted re-examination?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u30	Madam President, Mr Spooren, I notice that you have shown a great deal of ingenuity between your written answer to the question, which is four lines long, and the oral question. From the outset, we are working on the financial transparency of the sickness funds. This is stated in both the coalition agreement and the general policy papers of 2015 and 2016. One of the first measures was to propose to Parliament to amend the law so that sickness funds would deposit their annual accounts with the National Bank of Belgium. This was published in July 2015. Consultations on these implementing measures will continue. The Health Insurance Office has contacted the National Bank before the publication of the Act, and these contacts are continued to ensure that implementation is as rapid and efficient as possible. The actions are proceeding according to plan. The Audit Office will transfer the draft implementing decision one of the days and as soon as the various steps in the procedure are completed, its publication will be published during the summer. The first publication of supplementary insurance accounts will be possible in the second half of this year. That will be about the accounts of the year 2015. As you know, hospitals use different deadlines to close their budgets. The annual accounts that will be published on the National Bank's website will indeed be accessible to everyone, as will the annual accounts of all other entities subject to the publication obligation. Mr Spooren, you have already asked me why I do not include all these counsellors in the RIZIV. That is an interesting question in the light of the assignment you have described. However, they also have other functions within the sickness funds. We follow a multi-annual path with the health insurance funds, including all aspects of the role of the counsellors. We're looking into what's actually the current function of an advisory physician. In the context of the re-evaluation, we will also install self-controlling physicians at the RIZIV who will carry out samples. They want to extract the statistical outliers in areas where abnormally many people become ill for a long time. The latest figures show that in one province 7 % of long-term sick are born per year and another 27 %. Is there anything there in the drinking water? That's what we need to investigate, and that's why we're running samples. That is the measure that has now been taken: the re-evaluation. We are also going to set up a supplementary control service ourselves. We'll see what that gets us. If this produces elements that need to be communicated to the sickness funds, we will certainly do so. It's the first time we've done this ourselves. That's well-defined. We have the methodology for this, thanks to a cross-section of the data that RIZIV has already received. They just couldn't do anything with it. If it turns out that too many people are being pushed there by some kind of sickness fund, it is important to point this out. There must be a response, separate from individual cases. I am open to everything, but I cannot just make a decision with regard to the counsellors and the sickness funds, knowing that they already have difficulties finding people. They have multiple tasks. I sometimes wonder if these are all contemporary tasks. The role of counsellors is actually also within the competence of the Minister for Work. We're not gonna wait for that. We take matters into our own hands. This is part of our discussions with the health insurance funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I hear there's a lot of consultation and contact. That's a bit of my concern, too. I hope that the end of the journey will be in sight and that there will be complete transparency. You have taken important steps in this regard. It is therefore not a criticism of the steps you are taking. I hope that we can continue to do so. Mr Spooren will probably go into the story of the counsellors, but you are right to ask questions about the role that the sickness funds will play in the future and the role of the counsellors in it. If I hear now that you will set up a monitoring body to check whether they are taking the right steps, then I wonder if our proposal to bring them under the RIZIV might not solve much at once. That is a slope that we should examine further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u32	You will only assume this task. I'm just saying they have other tasks. However, the audit service we set up is not a health insurance agency. The point is that there are regionally large, abnormal fluctuations in the number of long-term sick who cannot be explained. We are talking about 20, 27 and 7%. Well, then, can I just say that there's a significant difference? It is therefore necessary to examine what is going on in those provinces. The problem is not linked to a single sickness fund, because all sickness funds are active in all provinces. There will therefore be a re-evaluation to find out why so many people, including young people, are becoming ill for a long time. That's our job. This is the first time that we have done this, but that is not, for the sake of clarity, a health insurance agency. We must take measures, but they must be substantiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u33	I'm glad to hear they're working in two directions. I understand that you, together with the sickness funds, are reviewing the role and tasks of the counseling physician. I also hear very positive signals from the health insurance funds. They send more and more people to courses in disability management and case management. That's a good evolution. Control is new and groundbreaking. In that sense, I am very pleased. I am curious to see how it will be implemented in practice and what results it will deliver. If these checks show that there are many differences and if the problem cannot really be solved at the time, then we certainly need to look again at whether structural solutions can be found. You say that the counseling physician has different tasks. Perhaps some of these tasks should remain with the sickness funds and another part of those tasks could be carried out by other counsellors from the RIZIV. We will certainly return to that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u34	Madam President, I'll be quick. I often wonder why we are so late to answer the questions, but I have an explanation, in any case in this committee which I do not frequent frequently: eight questions in 1:20 are far from compliance with the Rules of Procedure. The rules are five minutes: two minutes the question, two minutes the answer and one minute the reply. I think that if we were a little more rigorous in this Parliament, on both sides of the table, we would not waste much time and money on colleagues. That being said, I'll be quick. Minister, in recent years, physiotherapists, like doctors, pharmacists and dentists, have benefited from a form of pension savings funded by INAMI. This is the social status of physiotherapists. This food represents a real step forward that has been hailed by the entire profession. However, the granting of this status is subject to two main conditions. On the one hand, the physiotherapist must be agreed and, on the other hand, he must be able to justify a bill for a number of benefits: 1 000 M-type benefits or 15 000 M-value benefits of Article 7 of the Nomenclature. It appears that the second condition can be experienced as discrimination by physiotherapists employed in the physical medicine and rehabilitation services, and in rehabilitation centres and working on the basis of the K nomenclature. As you know, these are benefits justified by the possibility of providing the patient with multidisciplinary and specialized care for the benefit of heavily affected patients, polydisabled patients, heavy pathologies, patients requiring care infrastructures or very specific and specialized techniques. Within the same hospital or team, some physiotherapists therefore work in the M nomenclature, with patients hospitalized in the service of internal medicine, surgery, paediatrics, for example, while others are assigned to the revalidation service or participate in the multidisciplinary rehabilitation programme for the benefit of travelling patients with heavy pathologies, adult and paediatric neurology, traumatologies, to take only these examples. As a result, physiotherapists working in M are entitled to social status, while others working in K are not entitled to social status. Yet, all practice the same profession, most often in the same premises, in the same hospital institutions. Minister, do you confirm this difference between physiotherapists? Do you confirm to me that this subject has already been discussed in the INAMI Council? Do you think that is justified? Do you consider it necessary to make changes in the granting of social status to physiotherapists? If so, what solutions do you envisage in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u35	Mr. Frédéric, I just want to say that we've had a lot of joint questions, too. That is the only point I want to make and I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u36	In the situation you describe, physiotherapists working in M and those working in K within the psychotherapy department have a different social status. This year, it is at the request of the professional organization representative of the physiotherapists, Axxon, that the first stage of the new regulation will apply. As a result, social benefits will be granted to contracted physiotherapists who reach different levels of activity. This will allow for a more targeted allocation of benefits. The physiotherapists and insurers convention commission is currently working on the second stage, namely the possibility of regulating and harmonising social benefits according to the fact that the physiotherapists agreed to work in the nomenclature of psychotherapy, key letter K or in nomenclature of physiotherapy, key letter M. In general, I intend to proceed through a mission entrusted to the INAMI Health Care Insurance Committee on a more general and harmonised approach to social benefits. We have already started the work and it is entirely justified that two colleagues whose workloads are equivalent could benefit from equivalent benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u37	I thank the minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u38	Questions Nos 9051 and 9099 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u39	Madam Minister, my question was initially addressed to the Minister of the Interior, but I note that it was forwarded to you. Unlike professional firefighters, so-called "volunteer" firefighters are engaged in another main occupation. They are called in case of emergency or to perform guards. They are paid on the basis of their benefits. A distinction is thus made between two types of benefits made by volunteer firefighters: the exceptional benefits of volunteer firefighters (fire, disaster), which are entirely exempt from social contributions and regular benefits (i.e. non-emergency appeals such as exercises, daycare services, vehicle maintenance, ambulance trips), which are not exempt from social contributions. According to my information, these ONSS contributions would give no rights, no benefits (unemployment, pension, social security) to volunteer firefighters. This distinction would go back to a circular issued by the Minister of the Interior on 29 November 1967 concerning the organization and tasks of the municipal and regional fire departments. It seems to me necessary to review the current system, which is still dependent on an old circular and which generates very high costs for rescue zones without creating rights for volunteer firefighters. In fact, these social contributions are either simply abolished or voluntary firefighters are given rights in proportion to the hours worked. That would seem obvious to me, because it is unfair to maintain this state of affairs. The areas contribute, but their staff doesn't see the color! Minister, can you tell us more about this issue? What about these contributions to the ONSS for volunteer firefighters? Why is a distinction made on the basis of benefits? Will the system be reviewed by your services in the near future? Could the financial support of the relief zones not go through the abolition of these contributions? This would relieve communal finances, which are currently in a difficult situation. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u40	Mr Clarinval, the current rules for making voluntary firefighters subject to social security have been in force since 1 January 1991 and were introduced by the Royal Decree of 31 January 1991, which inserted an article 17 quater in the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, adopted in implementation of the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Royal Decree of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. According to this article, voluntary firefighters are excluded from the scope of social security, provided that their allowances do not exceed the amount of 785 euros per quarter. The indexed amount is currently EUR 1,037. In 1991, the Minister of Social Affairs communicated by mail to the former ONSSAPL that the distinction between benefits for regular benefits and benefits for exceptional benefits - i.e. urgent and unpredictable - covered by the ministerial circular of 29 November 1967 should be maintained. As a result, the allowances granted to volunteer firefighters for exceptional benefits are still exempt from social security contributions, regardless of their amount, whereas their regular benefits are exempt from contributions only if they do not exceed the ceiling of EUR 1,037 per quarter I mentioned. Voluntary firefighters are, in the event of exceeding the threshold, regarded as wage-earners for whom social security contributions specific to contract workers are due. As long as they pay social security contributions, they are subject to general rules like any ordinary worker, and may, under certain conditions, accumulate rights. If earnings are exempt from contributions, it goes without saying that no entitlement is accrued. In the context of the broader reform of health transport, my wish is to achieve a uniform status for volunteer ambulance workers, both firefighters and others, in order to avoid competition in terms of cost structure. This status will need to be harmonized with general voluntary status. As a result of this reform, the existing exemption for volunteer firefighters, as currently described in Article 17 quater of the Royal Decree of 27 November 1969, will have to be reviewed. You have asked Mr Jambon the question because we are both competent in this matter, but it is my cell that is preparing this very complicated dossier amending the 1944 law. Over the years, we've been a little "tribbed." Today, small adaptations are no longer possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u41	Minister, your answer is very interesting in two respects. On the one hand, you confirm to me that when a volunteer firefighter spends hours beyond €1,037, the contributions are due and they create rights for this volunteer firefighter. So far, I had always been told the opposite, that these contributions were lost and that volunteer firefighters did not get any rights. Obviously, you confirm to me that these rights are created. That's information I didn't know about because bad indications were given to me. This is a very important first element. On the other hand, I can only encourage you, together with Minister Jambon, to harmonize this status and put an end to these rather complex distinctions and the sources of many internal problems. Minister, thank you for the very clear answer you provided. This will also help to cut the wings to some ducks because, so far, many firefighters thought that these contributions were paid but never collected. You confirm the opposite. It's a very interesting element.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u42	Question No 9386 by Mrs Fonck will be dealt with this afternoon by the Minister for Employment. Question No 10134 by Mr Hedebouw is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u43	Madam Chair, Minister, this question, which is of a general nature and dates a little, was originally addressed to the Prime Minister. Addressing it today will undoubtedly allow us to take stock of the social security economies that have been decided in the context of budgetary adjustment. On Saturday, February 20, the excellent newspaper L'Echo evoked a note under discussion within the government on the future of social security financing, an issue of interest to us all. I wanted more information on the government's intentions in this regard. What is the government's objective with this note? Is this a budgetary objective? If so, what is the economy objective? What is the minister(s) responsible for drafting this note? As the question has been redirected to you, I think I already have the answer. To what extent, in the state of play and in the scenarios studied by the government, are reductions in social contributions granted to employers taken into account? I think that there is a reduction in social contributions for several billion euros. To what extent is the fact that social security needs are changing, particularly with regard to health care and the ageing of the population taken into account? Indeed, the needs increase mechanically. To what extent does the Government envisage, within this framework, the introduction of structural alternative financing for social security, enabling it to meet these emerging needs? What is the government's timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u44	Mr Gilkinet, I understand that you have asked the Prime Minister your question, but I will answer it and you will have to settle for it. There are two things. First of all, in each programme law, an article stipulates that social security will be restored to balance, as is now also foreseen. In each case, account must be taken of certain measures, such as last year, with the consequences of the sixth reform of the State, or with the measures taken by the Di Rupo government in relation to a kind of first shift which was not referred to as such but related to it. For 2016, we have the important consequences of the tax shift. The fall in contributions leads to an imbalance in the social security system. That is why we have again taken up the article imposing measures to restore balance to our social security. As far as the structural method is concerned, this is a proposal concerning the structural adjustment of the financing of social security which I, together with my colleague Willy Borsus, submitted to the government. So we wrote a joint note to the government. This note constitutes a first high-level proposal on the basis of which the Government is exchanging ideas on this subject. The objectives are clear. They are obviously not of a budgetary nature. This is the implementation of the government agreement, which provides for reform within the framework of transparency and accountability. You know the alternative financing method that is applicable. It is only a posteriori that one can see the effects of an increase or a decrease in VAT. The consequences of such measures are not easy to calculate, in particular because of the different percentages applied. For our part, we conducted an SIS analysis to understand the method of funding. This was an opportunity to see the great lack of transparency, not to mention the lack of transparency. We have also seen that it is not always possible to quickly assess the impact of the measures taken. It was not always possible to quickly measure the effects of the measures taken in relation to VAT adjustments, etc. It has also taken a while before we knew the consequences of the sixth state reform. So there are two issues at stake. It is our duty to keep the budget in balance every year. However, we also need to take a structural look at how we can work out this better, in a more transparent way, in a more responsive way. If a measure is then considered, we can immediately simulate what consequences it will have for the balance in social security. Those discussions are still ongoing. Proposals for improvements are still being made from all sides. If we can complete this, we will come to Parliament with it. I will probably have these discussions with Minister Borsus in the Committee on Social Affairs. This is an important work for the following years. The sixth state reform will then be over. That is why I proposed a provisional adjustment last year, because it still had too much influence. Now, of course, we have the tax-shift measures every year, which we must also take with us. That is why we want a very transparent way of financing social security. In the meantime, of course, we are always taking the necessary measures to bring the budget back into balance. It's a tax shift with a reduction in patronal contributions. Alternative funding will naturally have to increase. This funding comes from other contributions. It is then always a great hassle to know the effects and the consequences for the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u45	Minister, I understand that you and Minister Borsus are responsible for drafting a document, a first version of which already exists. You then intend to submit it to the parliamentary debate. Finally, your objective is not a budget, but rather a monitoring. I take note of that. We will therefore debate when we receive the note. Having said that, I would like to ask you to take into account the reductions in social security contributions amounting to several billion euros – which are somewhat distorting the calculation – as well as the evolution of social security needs, because the logic is not the same depending on whether the system adapts to the rightholders or whether they comply with the means. Moreover, the distribution of wealth has changed considerably since the creation of our social security, since many of them are no longer the result of labour, but of capital. It is therefore normal that the latter should also contribute to our social system. On reading the budget adjustment and the notifications that were given to us yesterday by the Budget Minister, I found that you had once again decided on multiple savings in social security through a multiplication of controls which will have a cost and which will result in a form of harassment of those entitled. The effects will be limited for the budget, but enormous and very difficult to bear for these people. This does not seem to me a desirable way to ensure the future of an effective and supportive social security system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u46	Madam President, Mr Gilkinet, allow me to reply. There must be checks. People who don't do anything wrong don't have to fear anything. You are in favour of a great deal of solidarity. Well, our social security is always meant to be there for those who need it, and to be able to pay enough replacement income that is decent and sufficiently high. However, it is also our duty to ensure that every euro that is awarded reaches the right people. That is why we must carry out checks and detect abuses. It is a great concern to me that the money in social security is a great deal of money, built up by the previous generations. You are actually saying that everyone will think it right and that we should not carry out checks. You have spoken of 'un harcèlement', which means bullying. I do not think that word is appropriate, because it concerns ordinary controls to avoid abuses or to detect abuses. So I think you're gonna miss the ball there a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic397x.u47	Minister, thank you for continuing the dialogue. I want to be very clear: I do not plead for a lack of public control on any matter, but I denounce, in the social field, a form of harassment which has a cost to your administrations, which ultimately brings little in terms of savings and which has a huge impact on the daily lives of those concerned, causing a future increase in the number of people in situations of extreme poverty. I also denounce, even if it is not within your competence, the weakness of the measures taken to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, illustrated by the Panama Papers and other dossiers. The contrast between the lack of respect for the privacy of the social beneficiaries you will harass and the lack of resources allocated to the fight against tax fraud is shocking. I say so, but I do not plead for a lack of control. That's not what I said, don't make me say what I didn't say!
