ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u1	Colleagues, the minister is available until 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u2	Madam President, the matter is topical. Until last night I received Belga messages in my mailbox, including about the position of the World Health Organization and about detected cases where another infection is suspected. Dr. Daniel Reynders, who you remember from our meetings on the Ebola virus, is the focal point for Belgium as regards the spread of this infectious disease. As you know, he is responsible for this at the Public Health Office. He made a short PowerPoint presentation, which will also be placed on the intranet. We also have copies of them, which we can distribute. Then we will answer the questions, if that is all right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u3	Madam President, I would like to make it clear immediately that the presentation you are going to see on the screen is in Dutch. A French version exists. It will be available in colour on the intranet. I have it here but in black and white. I propose to make the presentation in French but you will have the slides in Dutch. The goal is to take a look at the problem of the zika virus that makes a lot of talk about it for now. It is a viral disease that has been known for a relatively long time since its first notification was made in 1947 in Uganda. He takes his name from the forest where he was first identified. It is a flavivirus which is of the same family as dengue and chikungunya and which is transmitted by the same vector, a mosquito type aedes aegypti, which is also the vector of yellow fever. In itself, zika virus disease is a relatively mild disease. There are 80% of mosquito-infected patients who do not develop symptoms. It's completely asymptomatic. Eventually, the patient may develop fatigue, muscle or joint pain, conjunctivitis, headache,... In short, a syndrome similar to a benign influenza syndrome that is normally resolutive and that heals in three to five days. You have on this slide a summary of symptoms developed by WHO and disseminated in Latin America for the time being. As I said, it is a virus that is transmitted to man by the mosquito. I'm going to be careful - we'll talk about it later - saying there's no inter-human transmission. It takes the mosquito to get infected. That's what we call a vector-born disease. As I said, he was first identified in 1947. The following slides seemed particularly interesting to me when I followed the WHO briefing last week to see how quickly things can change. It was not until 1948 that he appeared with small epidemic outbreaks in other countries of intertropical Africa. Subsequently, in 1977, he migrated to South-East Asia and, in 1978, to Indonesia. In 2007, he reached Micronesia and migrated in 2013 to French Polynesia. In 2014, it was highlighted in the East Island and hit Central America in 2015, where it was first notified in Brazil before spreading rapidly over the months. This explains why we knew this situation in 2016. For nearly fifty years, it has remained relatively limited with small localized epidemics. But since 2014, it has spread rapidly in Latin America and currently affects 23 countries where cases confirmed by local transmission have been identified. These are countries in the intertropical zone, which is an approximate area of yellow fever. The mosquito is therefore not present in the northern and extreme-south parts of the world. When I was talking about a benign disease because often asymptomatic, it was proven until the last few months when cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome have appeared in Brazil, Colombia and French Polynesia. It is a neurological disease observed after other viral diseases. There has been a significant increase in microcephaly - a congenital malformation of the brain that has serious consequences for the development of the newborn and the child. It may not be because of the zika virus that this number of microcephaly has increased. There is no formal evidence of a cause-and-effect relationship between zika virus and microcephaly. However, cases of microcephaly have been reported in women who in previous months had had an infection with zika virus and the presence of zika virus in the amniotic fluid of a few women has been shown. The likelihood that there is a relationship between the two pathologies is still quite important and this justified, among other things, the WHO declaration of an emergency of public health with an international impact yesterday. How do we diagnose it? What is the treatment? What are the means of prevention? The diagnosis is done by PCR, which is a conventional diagnostic method for viral diseases or by the detection of antibodies. These two techniques are not simple and can be used quickly in the field, which explains the difficulties we have in formally identifying cases in infected areas. In Belgium, the Institute of Tropical Medicine has the means to carry out the diagnosis. We have the possibility to confirm an infection with zika virus. What's worrying is that we don't have treatment or vaccine. Its management is purely symptomatic based on antipyretics, painkillers, etc. You see on this slide the areas where the aedes aegypti mosquito is permanently implanted. There are in Europe, imports of mosquitoes. I imagine you've heard about the importation of the famous ochlerotatus japonicus that was highlighted at Natoye near Namur in a tire factory. Mosquito aedes were found in bamboo imported from Asia. The Belgian climate is not conducive to the installation and development of these mosquito species. As you can see on the map, risk areas do not directly concern Belgium. Have there been any cases in Belgium? Yes, we had a confirmed case that came from Guatemala in December 2015 and that healed without any sequelae. For your information, it is not excluded that we have a second possible case in Wallonia but that is not yet confirmed. I would therefore like to point out that with every reservation. We just talked about the albopictus aedes. When information on the explosive evolution of the zika virus epidemic in Latin America circulated, the Belgian health authorities immediately took a number of measures. The situation has been monitored regularly and the Risk Management Group, set up by the interdepartmental conference, has prepared and sent a number of letters to health professionals, travel medicine clinics, etc. Under the chairmanship of the Scientific Institute of Public Health, the Risk Assessment Group was convened to assess the situation and risks in Belgium and the opinion was sought from the Higher Council of Health on the scientific aspects and, in particular, on the strength of the relationship between zika virus infection, Guillain-Barré syndrome and microcephaly. What is the purpose of communication? It is mainly to raise awareness among the public who want to go to the infected areas, mainly with recommendations in terms of protection against mosquito bites and a recommendation to pregnant women to post their journey as far as possible, given the doubts we have about the possible complications of microcephaly. Similarly, pregnant women who return after a stay in the infected areas would be well advised to consult their obstetrician to check their condition and monitor their pregnancy closely. Of course, doctors are asked to notify all cases of zika viruses that could be identified. This supervision is a responsibility of the Communities. It is therefore these who will receive the communications, but the consolidation will be done at the level of the Scientific Institute of Public Health and the diagnosis will be confirmed at the level of the Institute of Tropical Medicine of Antwerp. For the rest, the situation is being monitored, in particular in collaboration with our European partners; the Health Safety Committee meets regularly by audio-conference to verify developments. At present, it is important to examine the extent to which new means of rapid and reliable diagnosis can be developed with regard to the evolution of the situation at the global level, in particular the ability of the brother mosquito, aedes albopictus, to serve as a vector, which would potentially pose problems during the summer period. In any case, until May, there is no risk to the European Union. Madam Chair, I'm done with my presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u4	Madam President, I think it is right that the Public Health Office should follow closely all movements of the disease caused by that mosquito. On the basis of previous conditions, we have developed a good network and we have also learned a lot from the Ebola crisis. The difference is that the Zika virus is not immediately lethal for those who are infected, but it is a major danger to pregnant women or to women who wish to become pregnant. Very worrying is the large incidence of babies with microcephalus that are now born in South American countries. Above all, we are trying to put in place preventive measures by raising awareness. All obstetricians, doctors and health professionals were also informed. The necessary warnings were given on the websites of the government, the Scientific Institute and the FPS Public Health. We must continue to follow this. If there were a first case somewhere on European territory in the warmer months, not because of travel but because of the activity of mosquitoes, good coordination between European countries would obviously have to be organised. The maps are characteristic, in the sense that the mosquito has spread over a latitude, where usually the same temperature prevails. The wind also plays a role in this. Even if the mosquito is not too wide, you will notice that it has spread transcontinental. So it is very likely that one of these mosquitoes will reach Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u5	After this presentation, I give the floor to the members of the commission, starting with the members who have tabled questions, to allow them to ask additional questions or to comment on Dr. Reynders' presentation and the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u6	Madam Chair, Minister, Dr. Reynders, thank you for your explanation of many of the questions I tabled. However, I have some additional questions. With respect to the advice given to travellers, do they appear in the advice given on the Department of Foreign Affairs website? What is the particularly dangerous period for a pregnant woman? Is the whole period of pregnancy dangerous? Is there a particular more dangerous period? In principle, this would be the brain formation. Can the fetus of a woman who has contracted the virus and was not pregnant but becomes pregnant develop the same type of symptom? Could you specify the period of danger? Can a woman who has gone to a region where she may have been infected develop the disease once she has returned to Belgium? Have such cases already been described? Still with regard to modes of transmission and danger, there have been few cases of direct transmission, whether mother-to-child transmission or sexual transmission. According to the Atlanta CDC, at least one case has been confirmed in the United States. There may be two or three cases of sexual transmission in the United States. Are these modes of transmission already proven? It appears that WHO wanted to avoid "serious failures" when dealing with the Ebola epidemic. There has been an international collective responsibility. Neither the WHO nor the member States of the international community have taken this epidemic sufficiently seriously. For a very long time it was private organizations such as Médecins sans frontières that took care of it. What does that mean in practice? What role will Belgium, the European Union and the international community play in dealing with this new pandemic? What are Belgium's specific contributions to research, for example, at the level of the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Will a role be assigned to Belgium by the WHO? We know that the Institute of Tropical Medicine has close relationships for a whole series of infectious diseases. Does Belgium play a role in international solidarity? Has it put in place any preventive measures? We were able to see the tour of the world covered by the virus. It is likely that it is retracing the Atlantic to the gates of Africa, with a new epidemiological profile and its consequences for Guillain-Barré syndrome, microcephaly. Has the state of alert already been launched in Africa? Are measures taken to anticipate the arrival of the virus in African territory? Finally, could you give us an idea of what the situation might look like in the worst case possible? That's what we did for Ebola. How many victims could be expected? Is WHO working on a worst case scenario? What are the figures available, in terms of incidence rates or absolute figures, for Guillain-Barré syndrome and microcephaly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u7	Madam President, I thank Dr Reynders for his fairly comprehensive explanations, which also answer a number of questions. I would also like to thank the Minister for having organized a brief briefing on this thorny subject. I have a few more specific questions. It seems that the Institut Pasteur is at the dawn of finding a vaccine against this disease. Do you know more about this? It would appear that this virus is close to dengue and chikungunya virus and as such, research is already well underway. Are there any other information available? Of course, we are not, here, in a case comparable to the Ebola epidemic. In its time, the many measures that had been taken had not always been adequate enough. Do you already have an outline of projects or measures that could be concretely and fairly quickly put in place, for example at the government level in relation to the Department of Foreign Affairs? It already gives some information on its site but it must nevertheless be acknowledged that they are partial. Are you planning to take initiatives at the airport level? Will the planes be cleaned? Will simulations be organised? Will a communication platform be set up? More importantly, will there be a procedure for handling cases that will be detected in the coming weeks or months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u8	Madam President, Madam Minister, I had already asked you about the same subject three months ago. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the full answer you gave me at the time on the basis of the elements in your possession at that time. I thank Dr. Reynders for his presentation. This reminds me of his previous presentation for another well-known problem that we have been able to control in the meantime. I come to my questions. Have you ever had any consultations with the Ministers responsible in the Communities in this respect? With regard to travel by Belgians abroad, the propitious period being at our doorstep, let alone the improvement of the climate in the coming weeks, it would be interesting to have a permanent cell that could analyse the situation. Has the Institute of Tropical Medicine made any provision in this regard? With regard to pregnant women, the number of abortions in Brazil has exploded. How can we prevent pregnant women travelling from having to experience this kind of situation? Since Brazil seems, for the moment, to be at the forefront of the spread, do you advise pregnant Europeans not to go to Brazil?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u9	Minister, an organization is already in place to work with experts and intercabinets and the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Would it not therefore be interesting to take stock of the mechanisms put in place by Belgium in the fight against Ebola in order to draw lessons and good practices that could be used in this case? Or, as it is a virus, diseases and modes of transmission quite different, is it necessary, in the face of this scenario, to reinvent everything? Are we analysing the possible impact of climate change and seasonal temperatures, which no longer correspond to what they should be, on the survival or arrival of this famous mosquito in our home? Dr. Reynders, you say that until May, we have nothing to fear. But if it is strangely good at home in March-April, will we really have nothing to fear? What are the parameters? Is it temperature or humidity? The areas concerned are all at the same latitude. I do not want to cause panic, but I think it is a criterion that it is interesting to incorporate into our reflections, because there are certainties that are no longer there. One final supplementary question. The countries concerned, where microcephaly or other diseases could develop further, may need help. In the same way that States and NGOs have intervened to combat other pandemics or epidemics, is there a risk of a situation requiring organization to help Brazil or other countries that might face the consequences of this Zika virus?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you again for the very clear statement. Most of the questions have already been asked, but I still have a specific question about the directives that are currently being issued, including by our country. These directives are, logically, primarily aimed at preventing the contamination of pregnant women. For example, if you are pregnant now, there is the directive not to travel there. Are there also guidelines for women who have already been infected? I did see guidelines asking to take it into account or to report it to the gynecologist. Is it true that infection can only be seen at a very late stage of pregnancy or that there are consequences of that infection? Are there guidelines to be given to women who are more likely to be more specific than: 'Do you think it might be possible to get them?'
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u11	Compared to pregnant women returning from infected areas in Latin America or Central America, you said there will be a search for the infection. How will this happen in practice? Will gynaecologists be systematically informed of this provision? What test will be used (antibodies research or fetal microcephaly research)? Who will pay these costs? Are they fully covered today? I would like to know how this is going to happen in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u12	I shall give the floor to the Minister and possibly to Mr Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u13	I will reply and give the floor to Mr Reynders for technical aspects. The tiger mosquito does not occur naturally in Belgium. She was detected twice in our country, in 2000 and 2013. In both cases it was import by plane or in a load of tyres. Saniport, which cleans all the aircraft that land here with goods and in ports, is of course extra vigilant, not only for all the other things that we know are contagious, but also for the tiger mosquito. So Saniport is involved. A working group in which not only the federal government but also the Regions, the Communities and the scientific institutes are represented, monitors entomological monitoring and also examines measures that would be necessary to combat the spread of such exotic mosquitoes in the warmer months. With regard to disease progression, it was asked how to detect it. The disease is flual or viral. So it can easily be confused with another flu-like condition. The incubation period is limited from three to twelve days. The connection with the trip can therefore be made, but sometimes not. It is also remarkable that if a blood sample is taken, the antibodies can only be detected in the blood for a number of days. That means the antibodies are gone after that. That is the problem in Brazil, where there is currently no scientific connection with the much higher number of children born with microcephalus. A number of women may be infected at the beginning or in the middle of pregnancy, but at the time they give birth they are no longer seropositive and can no longer be found in the blood. They are now trying to detect them in the placenta or cord blood, but scientific research is only starting now, because it took until October 2015 to find an explanation for the high number of children born with microcephalus. It's even harder for Guillain-Barré. As you know, Guillain-Barré's syndrome can be given up to a hundred viruses. That is described in medicine, one can get that in a manner of speaking already after a normal rhinovirus, actually a silly snot nose. There is also scientific research to be done on this. This has been requested by the Pasteur Institute. They must establish the scientific link between zika and the development of microcephaly and possibly between zika contamination and Guillain-Barré. That's very difficult, since only a few cases have been detected. Mrs van Peel, the advice given to women who wish to become pregnant is either to postpone pregnancy or not to travel to those countries because the risk is very high. If they are already pregnant, all health workers who come into contact with pregnant women have been informed accordingly. Then we'll have to check it out. Firstly, there must be an echo, that is clear. However, this should also be checked during blood sampling. Mr Dallemagne, care will as always be the responsibility of public health. We have never had a discussion on this. In blood sampling, the polymerase chain reaction test is only positive during the first three to five days after symptoms manifest. One can only detect the antibodies. So there is an IgM test, which can also detect contacts with other viruses. The flaviviruses generally give the same positivity for the IgM tests. I would like to make it clear that it is not always scientificly easy. What are the similarities with the measures taken for the Ebola virus? The disease is different. There is the possibility of Guillain-Barré's neurological complication. That needs to be further investigated. Patients with Zika virus should not be hospitalised or quarantined. They don't need special care. If someone could be pregnant or is pregnant, advice is given to take a blood sample or ultrasound immediately. What stage is the infection at? Microcephaly means that the skull is abnormally small and especially that the skull is already flattening here. That's due to the fact that the brain doesn't develop. The brain develops quite early in pregnancy. Even if one could surgically enlarge the skull, certain parts of the brain are not formed. That is a very bad prognosis for the children who are now born in Brazil and who will have a very heavy mental disadvantage. I think it is important to warn against going to those countries. There is now a great panic with everyone carrying a child. There are a lot of abortion applications. That is, of course, a decision of the couple and it must be respected. Is there a risk for Belgium? Never say never, Mr Dallemagne. One can't say that. There's a lot of travel going on. The Olympic Games also take place there. A lot of people go there and come back. There are also the classic carnival meetings there. It is important that measures are taken together with the United States and the Pan-American Health Organisation to combat the epidemic. The Brazilian President, Mrs Rousseff, has announced that some 220 000 soldiers will be deployed to fight mosquitoes. Consultations on a common approach are taking place in Central and South America on the South American continent. Bearing in mind the many times lost when the first Ebola cases were reported, the WHO launched a first meeting of the Emergency Committee on the virus on 1 February. On the basis of the Committee's opinion, the Zika virus is now regarded as a public health emergency or international concern and a number of concrete recommendations are made, such as the need for standardised surveillance, especially in transmission areas, and an intensification of research into the aetiology of microcephalus and neurological disorders. There should also be enhanced surveillance for Zika virus infection. Apart from the development of new diagnostics, it is sought that there is no other test that is more specific to the Zika virus and that can demonstrate a possible infection for longer. Particular attention should also be paid to the follow-up of pregnant and fertile women in the transmission areas. There is also the preparation of health services in those transmission areas: what if there are neurological syndromes and what to do in case of congenital abnormalities in children? The travel advice is that passengers should be kept up-to-date on the potential risks and take the necessary measures. The standard WHO recommendation on the disinfection of aircraft and airports should also be used. Data sharing is also done: rapid and timely reporting by national authorities of relevant information on this condition. Furthermore, a rapid flow of information to the WTO is also of great importance, something that was rather flawed last time, if I may put it that way. Mr Flahaux, as to whether the Institute of Tropical Medicine has made any new arrangements, as a reference laboratory for this virus, he has, for the time being, made arrangements focusing mainly on communication. On 21 January, he published a notice on his website containing general information on the disease and advice for travellers wishing to travel to one of the countries or territories affected by the epidemic. These messages are also coordinated by the Risk Management Group (RMG) in consultation with the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé. Health professionals can always contact the Tropical Institute in a suspicious case, for which a fast line is available. To answer your question about periods of danger to women, I would say that the danger exists before and after pregnancy. In the absence of contraception, a possible incidence cannot be ruled out. Research is under way, but today it is better to be careful and refrain from thinking that nothing can happen. Transmission is via mosquitoes. Some suspicious cases have been identified where it is excluded that the patient was snatched by a mosquito, but infected by his partner who made a trip. The issue needs to be reconsidered. Doubts exist but no certainty. In any case, if this hypothesis were to be confirmed, it would not be surprising. Indeed, it took months and months to know that the Ebola virus could be present in the sperm six months after the person became ill. That's a disturbing fact. But, in this case, checks must be made as this possibility is not yet scientifically proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u14	With regard to the case reported in Texas, I would like to point out that it was the Texas authorities that reported a case of Zika virus that occurred after sexual intercourse with a patient returning from the infected areas. This was not confirmed by the CDC (Center for Disease Control and Prevention), as the investigation has not been completed. The possibility of conventional transmission via the vector has not been formally excluded. If my memories are good, the presence of the virus in the sperm has been highlighted but there is no evidence...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u15	Yet I have a Belga dispatch here that says it would be the second case. One sexual case has already been confirmed by the Atlanta CDC. This case in Texas, which was actually announced by the Dallas County Health Authorities, would therefore be a second case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u16	As the minister says, one cannot rule out a hypothesis. When we look around the world of the virus, the epidemics were small and localized. It took fifty years to go around the planet and now it's exploding in Latin America. The methods of transmission, the risks to pregnancy, are therefore relatively unknown. I recall that we have strong suspicions but we still have no evidence of a cause and effect relationship between Zika virus infection and microcephaly. For the cases of microcephaly that have been reported in Brazil, I would like to recall that when we look at the curves between the notified and confirmed cases, there is a ratio of one to ten. There are therefore 10 cases notified in one confirmed case. This relativizes the on-site reporting capacity and the extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u17	As with Ebola, we will meet regularly in committee to assess the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u18	With regard to the list of affected countries and territories, the updated list is regularly updated by WHO. This list of 29 January 2016 includes 23 countries. We can find her on her website. This is obviously evolving. Mr Blanchart, what is worrying is that, at the moment, there is no vaccine, no medicine to fight this virus. The only treatments are symptomatic. You know that the WHO convened the Emergency Committee of the Health Regulations to meet on 1 February, with the aim of obtaining more information on the possible causal relationship between the Zika epidemic and the increase in a number of neurological diseases. That is the research we have requested from the Pasteur Institute. There is always a relationship between Belgium and the other European countries at the level of the FPS. The exchanges take place not only through the European Commission's Directorate-General for Health, but also through the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, where Dr Reynders is located, which is the link with Belgium. He is the one who is notified of the latest information. Dr. Reynders, maybe you want to explain how we work...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u19	Gerkens spoke of the Ebola structure that has been grafted into an existing operation, which had already been used before, especially during the 2009 pandemic and thereafter. We have a permanent structure within the Public Health FPS, called the "Health Vigilance" cell, where a on-call physician is called by health professionals, seven days a week and 24 hours a day. Any alert notification may be made directly to the on-call physician. At the level of the Scientific Institute of Public Health, we carry out an analysis of the epidemiological information coming from Belgium, via the communities, as well as via the European alert network, for example. The Scientific Institute coordinates the assessment of these risks for Belgium, known as the RAG, the Risk Assessment Group. Initially, it was intended solely for notification under the International Health Regulations. For two or three years now, it has been extended to crisis management in Belgium. The RAG and the RMG (Risk Management Group) are permanent structures that bring together the federated entities and the federal authorities. At this level, monitoring and follow-up continue. To take up one of the elements that had been raised on Ebola proceedings, clearly a number of elements remain in place, including the notification that was already in place before Ebola. General practitioners have an obligation to notify unusual diseases and a number of clearly identified diseases to the community medical inspector. There is a network that allows the information to go back to the level of the Institute of Public Health and in the warning systems. We have already sent instructions to agents from Saniport to Zaventem to pay particular attention to the disinsecting measures that normally need to be taken. These are not new measures: the disinsecting of aircraft is an obligation of IATA for aedes aegypti in the fight against yellow fever. There is no difference between the control of the vector of zika virus and that of yellow fever. These are internationally accepted measures, known. We just ask for more attention to be paid to flights from the affected areas. (...): But also for containers coming from the 23 countries in question...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u20	Yes, we found them that way, in the tires...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u21	Madam Minister, I am pleased that the Belgian government is taking things seriously. This indeed deserves a comprehensive strategy, particularly with your colleagues in charge of development cooperation and foreign affairs. These are aspects that we have not discussed with you, but which remain important and which could be included in the strategy at the international level. Equally important is the question of investment in research. We are a country of vaccine production and can therefore be at the rendezvous in this area too, if we invest the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u22	Investment in research concerns pharmaceutical companies. It is not the government that will conduct this research...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u23	Minister, when a public health emergency arises at the international level, we can also decide to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u24	This is possible, but prior expertise is needed. Meanwhile, the Institut Pasteur and the Institute of Tropical Medicine are here for this. For the rest, is it up to the government to conduct the research to discover a vaccine? Especially since on average, vaccine research can take ten, twenty or thirty years, as is the case with the AIDS virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u25	We know the problem of orphan diseases and the lack of investment that accompanies it. This disease will mainly affect poor countries, and I believe that international solidarity can be created in terms of research.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u26	Sanofi has proposed. It therefore sees an interest in the process, as well as a potential market. I was somewhat concerned that a Dutch firm, an NGO, had offered to distribute abortive pills to pregnant women. I find it positive that we can be at the side of women who wish to have an abortion and that we facilitate the process for them. But let us not forget that commercial and economic interests are certainly at stake and these firms must be controlled so that the actual accompaniment of these women can take place. Announcements are made but a long-term follow-up will have to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u27	We can always get off the beaten track, but it's important to stay realistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u28	We will follow up on the matter in the committee in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u29	Question No 8277 by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u30	A few weeks ago we were confronted in the written press and on television with reports about the so-called carrier tests. By means of a simple blood sampling, commercial companies test potential parents or parents who are already pregnant for abnormalities in their DNA. From this, it could be deduced whether the The emphasis is on having a chance. It concerns a whole series of serious or less serious abnormalities, such as deafness, blindness or muscle disease. It costs between 300 and 1 000 euros per person. On this basis, potential parents could assess whether they are starting children or becoming pregnant via IVF. Pregnant women can have foetal tests based on this. We are even convinced that abortions have been carried out on the basis of these tests. It is clear that such practices raise questions about ethics, desirability or cost for health care. It's for social debate. Geneticists are asking themselves out loud whether we should not create a legal framework for this. In the meantime, I've contacted the fertility center of KU Leuven. There it is said that such tests give absolutely no certainty. Many mutations occur with or shortly after conception. What are your reservations about this? How do you feel about the concerns of geneticists?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u31	More and more companies are indeed offering genetic carrier tests. In this way, people with a child's wish could identify the risk to a future child of hereditary conditions. As we know, so-called monogenic disorders, which are the result of a defective gene, are rare. Most disorders are the result of the interaction between environmental factors, lifestyle and defects to different genes. A reliable genetic test will therefore at most be able to make a percentage assessment of the risk of a particular condition. Because that percentage makes abstraction of the other factors that affect the development of a condition, it can give a completely distorted picture. Everything stands or falls with the interpretation of the results, which is anything but simple without medical knowledge. In any case, it is not advisable to be tested in such a way. I note that in the College of Anthropogenics at the FOD a negative opinion was given on preconceptual screening for cystic fibrosis. I'll ask the college about further guidelines on preconceptual screening. Finally, I would like to remind you that in our centres for human inheritance not only the interpretation of the test results, but also, certainly so important, a comprehensive counseling on the possible implications of clinical genetic diagnosis for the patient and any posterity. This framework, that counseling, is totally lacking when using demedicalized commercial carrier tests. I will ask for an evaluation of the competence of the federal authorities in this matter. After all, this is about the prevention of diseases. If our competence is established, we will consider whether regulatory action is useful, for example in the field of advertising for such tests. These are tests promoted by commercial clinical biology laboratories. However, all existing and well-functioning human heritage centres are very reluctant to carry out these tests. They are not only likely to be untrustworthy, they can give little clarity and they may be able to give false positive images, which may lead people to decide to break off the pregnancy, even though that is not necessary at all. Conversely, they may also miss diagnoses and then there is no further counseling of the couple after the test results. It's a dangerous evolution. I can't do more than warn you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u32	Madam Minister, we agree with each other on this point. I also think that this is dangerous and, to use a harsh word, folklore. I believe that we must do all we can to warn people about this and even prohibit such tests. I'm glad you've taken certain steps. We will keep that in mind. I will be free to ask a follow-up question about this in a few months' time to hear what is going on. Anyway, I find the tests, like you, extremely dangerous. We are certainly in complete agreement on the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, for many years I have been a very detailed record of sectarian drifts in our country. In 2006, I chaired a working group in this Parliament which submitted a report that same year. Its purpose was to assess the recommendations made by the 1997 Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. This is to tell you whether this matter has been a long-standing concern of our Parliament! In all the studies conducted today, there has been a significant increase in sectarian health drifts. On a daily basis, men and women are victims. They die because they abandon conventional therapies to treat cancer, seduced by the total biology of living beings for example, or attracted by respiratoryism and a series of other dubious and challenging practices. In Belgium, we have a tool. It is an observatory of sectarian drifts: the Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN), which reports to the Ministry of Justice. The Centre submitted its report, which merely confirms my findings. There is an increase in sectarian health drifts. I recall the figures: health-related files processed at the CIAOSN account for 21.7% of requests from our fellow citizens to the Centre in 2013-2014, compared to 15.62 per cent in 2011-12 and 17.53 per cent in 2009-10. Minister of Health, have you read this report? More specifically, and I understand that the question could also be asked of the Minister of Justice, could you tell me what is the situation with regard to the application of the Act of 26 November 2011 amending and supplementing the Penal Code with a view to criminalising the abuse of the weak situation of persons and extending the criminal protection of vulnerable persons against abuse? Is the current system effective? Have any convictions already been handed down in the context of sectarian medical or pseudo-medical practices? Do you think improvements are necessary in view of the figures reported by the CIAOSN? Have your services ever had contact with CIAOSN on this deviant therapy issue? Have you ever had contact with the Minister of Justice in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u34	Madam Chair, Mr. Frédéric, my answer falls within my jurisdiction. The report of the Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN) on the health component of certain sectarian practices, which shows that the complaints of the victims are only increasing, is in fact intriguing. As far as my powers as Minister of Public Health are concerned, there are currently two mechanisms that should protect the population from this type of drift, depending on the profession exercised by the person adopting such a practice. If the sectarian practitioner is a health professional, the patient or family may complain to the Provincial Medical Commission. A complaint to the College of Physicians or the College of Pharmacists is also possible as long as the sectarian practitioner is a doctor or pharmacist. These bodies have the task of ensuring the quality of the practice of a health profession and, in some cases, they may prevent a professional from practising or passing on the most serious cases to the King's prosecutor. If the sectarian practitioner is not a health professional, the patient or family may also complain to the Provincial Medical Commission, which may initiate an investigation. If it appears from the latter that this practitioner is illegally practising medicine, even if he disguises his remarks by concepts of well-being, the file will also be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is important for the population to be informed. In summary, a health professional should be consulted, not the various gurus of well-being. When a health professional adopts a practice that calls into question or when a non-health professional practises pseudo-therapies, a complaint may be filed with the Provincial Medical Commission that will follow the case. I can't say anything else. Before taking action, the victim patient must file a complaint, and this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I know there are complaint procedures. Still, we must first recognize that we were victims. And when you die, obviously, it's a little late! The family can actually turn around. You mentioned an important element, that is the notion of information. I know that our country is organized in such a way that prevention campaigns are carried out at different levels of power, but I think it would be worthwhile, and I am at your disposal, to ask myself the very concrete question of how we can prevent. I think that, in general, people attracted by this type of drift are in a situation of weakness, as they have a concern for physical or mental health. They are therefore an extremely easy prey for people who do business and who put money in their pockets to the detriment of the health of our citizens. I wanted to draw your attention to this, and I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u36	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a similar parliamentary question. In this question, however, I will focus on the problem of illicit advertising of artificial foods. You yourself said a number of interesting things in reply to my previous question. You would create a new regulation that strengthens the provisions relating to first-age milk. You also said that only two other European Member States, together with Belgium, have argued in favour of restricting the advertising of follow-on formulae, which I therefore absolutely welcome. I come to my question as to whether the advertising of artificial foods is being controlled. First of all, how often has an infringement of Belgian legislation been detected and reported to the Public Health Office? Was there any action in those cases? What sanctions will be imposed? Secondly, how is it that the WHO Code is not even mentioned on the website of the Federal Breast-feeding Committee? Maybe that would help. Thirdly, you say that from 2016 you will tighten the provisions relating to first-age milk. What exactly do you mean by that? Do you mean the measure on its own or the age limit? Finally, I must point out that from the point of view of practice, which I know very well, it is clear that advertising for parents really does not make the difference between first, second or third-age milk. That's pretty confusing. That's how this commercial gets to people all the time. The artificial food industry spends very large sums on advertising and thus fights unequally against the promoters of breast-feeding. Caregivers are still overwhelmed with gifts from the artificial food industry, even though they deny it. Do you share that analysis? Can you fix that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u37	So far, the FPS Public Health has received only one complaint concerning an infringement of the Belgian rules on advertising of artificial nutrition. These were discounts given on first-age milk via online sales. The complaint was delivered to the BFSA, which controls compliance with the relevant provisions. The link to the code of the WHO is indeed on the website of the Federal Breastfeeding Committee, especially on the page about the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative and via the link to the brochure to comply with the ten rules of thumb for obtaining the label. That reference may be moved if necessary. This will be reviewed in the planned review of the website of the FPS Public Health. The WHO Code of Ethics is indeed not legally enforceable. Our legal framework is European Directive No. 2006/141, last amended by European Directive No 2013/46, which was transposed by Belgium through amendments to the Royal Decree of 18 February 1991 on foods intended for particular nutritional uses. There will indeed be stricter rules for infant formulae. It explicitly states that the labelling, presentation and advertising of infant formulae and follow-on formulae must be such as to avoid any risk of confusion between the two and that consumers are able to make a clear distinction, in particular as regards the text used, the images and the colours. The new regulation will enter into force in 2016 when the Commission Delegated Regulation will be adopted by the European Parliament. However, the Regulation provides that the provisions must not enter into force for more than four years. Belgium does not have much room for manoeuvre to introduce stricter national provisions than European legislation. Possible additional restrictions should only be imposed on infant formulae. European rules are strict. Only specialised publications in the field of baby care and scientific publications should be published. Such advertising may contain only scientific and factual data. Advertising must not imply, nor make it believe that infant formulae are as good as or better than breast-feeding. It will examine the extent to which further restrictions are needed in the administration, but it does not need to be said that European harmonisation is being sought. Member States should be able to ensure that the legislation is correctly implemented. One may indeed always report any complaints to the FPS Public Health or the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. As regards the sugar content in baby food, I would remind you that in its dietary recommendations of 2009, the High Health Council recommends that no more than 10% of daily energy intake from sugars should be taken. That recommendation applies to both adults and children. Also this year, the High Health Council comes with updated recommendations. In order to actually reduce the sugar content of the products, the administration is negotiating with the companies concerned, within the framework of the Energy Reduction Working Group. My policy cell is also closely involved in this. So we want to bring down the sugar content so that, step by step, we can achieve that recommendation of 10%. The labelling and advertising of both baby food and food for larger children and adults are regulated at European level. It is mandatory to indicate the nutritional value on the label. One should not make unsupported claims about the composition and/or any beneficial effect on health. Only claims validated by the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, and approved by the European Commission, may be used. The legal framework is therefore very strict and ensures that consumers receive clear information. We encourage breast-feeding through the Federal Breast-feeding Committee, primarily by focusing on continuing training of health professionals in the materials within the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative and by setting up awareness-raising actions, but it is mainly the Communities that are responsible for assisting young parents during consultations, for example at Child and Family and at ONE. During the consultations it should also be seen that mothers have the wrong milk, for example follow-up milk instead of start-up milk. If the mother gives formula, whether or not in addition to breast-feeding, it is only a small effort to ask not only how many shovels she puts in the bottle, but also what colour or number the box of powder milk has. The people accompanying young mothers must take responsibility for this. The transfer of information happens much less from mother to child. The families are not so numerous anymore either. A lot of people only have one or two children. It is harder to find the way, but the guidance of mother and child is very important. The choice of breast or bottle feeding must be made before birth and not when the child is already there. This can be considered and discussed in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u38	We agree on that. I am particularly pleased that you are taking part in your efforts to keep the percentage of sugar in accordance with the World Health Organisation guidelines. I suppose that's what you're gonna do in your sugar plan. That theme will certainly be continued if we continue to work on nutrition in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u39	Madam President, Minister, you know that every year a lot of mutualities, including Christian Mutuality and Socialist Mutuality, do research, the so-called hospital barometer. An article from November my question has been tabled a while ago, and it is clear that the supplements of honorary wages in hospitals are rising very rapidly. This is also apparent from the hospital barometer of the two aforementioned mutualities. That is certainly the case for the supplements in single rooms, which even increased by 6.3 % in 2014, which is huge. For hospitalisation with an overnight stay in a single room an average of EUR 1 461 is paid, which is five times as much as in a double or multiple room, for which you pay 281 euros. In 2014, the average amount for wage supplements was EUR 886 representing 6.3 % more than the previous year. The new figures are likely to show a sharp increase in 2015. By comparison, in the last ten years, the average annual increase in single rooms was 1.3 %. By banning supplements for inclusion in double and multi-bed rooms, fortunately, the costs have already fallen considerably in recent years, but also for the single rooms I believe that measures are needed to reduce the cost to the patient. After all, the patient increasingly chooses to stay in a single room. However, this is not always a real choice, because more and more hospitals are setting up more and more single rooms and so there are not always other rooms available. The rise of the pay supplements in single rooms does not only affect the inclusion in a single room. It also involves the risk that hospitalisation insurance will become significantly more expensive, as insurers will increase their premiums to better cover those costs. This leads to a vicious circle and is especially at the disadvantage of the patient, because it ultimately pays both the premium and the imposition. We also know, of course, that these high pay supplements are linked to hospital funding. The hospitals can thus bind the doctors to themselves. After all, the doctors pay some of the pay supplements to the hospitals. We must not lose sight of the fact that hospitals today need these extra revenues to get their funding. So I do know it's linked to hospital funding. I have a question about that in a moment, by the way. We also note that hospitals are starting to charge more and more cases. It's called comfort supplements or accommodation benefits. These are extras that the patient has to pay, such as for a television set, Wi-Fi or a refrigerator. Patients are not always aware of the fact that, in addition to the doctor's fee, they also have to pay for this kind of business. Especially when patients stay in the hospital for a long time, the bill rises nicely. I wonder whether a television set, Wi-Fi or a refrigerator should not be part of the standard equipment of a hospital at this time. I think it is important that healthcare remains affordable for everyone. This was also included in the resolution on poverty. On the other hand, I understand that hospitals should also get their funding in order and be able to remain financially sound. Hence my next questions. How do you view the ever-increasing premium supplements charged in single rooms? Will you pay attention to that problem in your plan on the new hospital funding? Do you already see how in the new hospital funding you will deal with the pay supplements in single rooms, so that a single room for a patient remains affordable and hospitals can remain financially healthy? How do you feel about the fact that a lot of hospitals are going to charge patients for, for example, a television, Wi-Fi or a fridge, via the so-called comfort supplements or accommodation benefits? Is this supposed to be the basic equipment of a hospital? If you consider that a hospital can charge the costs for such matters, under what conditions should this be done? How can the patient be better informed in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u40	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, of course I share your concern about the affordability of care for patients. In view of these concerns, last year we abolished the possibility of charging pay supplements to patients in common and double rooms in day hospitalization, as provided for in the government agreement. In no hospital setting is it possible to ask for supplements in communal and double rooms. In addition, a hospital is obliged to always have a sufficient offer to provide patients who ask for it without supplements. The record to be submitted by each patient on admission shall inform the patient of his right of choice and its financial consequences. In other words, the patient has the absolute right to choose a room type without supplements. As you yourself pointed out, the financial health of a hospital is partly dependent on the contributions of doctors, including from wage supplements. The plan of approach to the reform of hospital funding has the ambitious objective of improving or maintaining financial health through an efficient use of existing resources. Hospitals must be properly reimbursed in order to be able to carry out their duties properly. However, I have always indicated that the funding sources of a hospital as a whole must be tackled and that one part cannot be removed with the danger that the whole house will collapse. The patient must always be properly informed about the financial consequences of his hospitalisation. On the basis of the patient's law, the patient should be informed about the financial consequences of the professional's intervention, but also, of course, about the so-called accommodation costs. It also seems obvious to me that the patient should be able to refuse additional services or consumables. If these accommodation costs take the form of a fixed flat rate per day, this looks a lot like a hidden room supplement. No room supplements can be charged in communal and double rooms. Patients facing this situation may therefore question their billing, possibly with the support of their sickness fund. The question also arises as to which accommodation costs the hospitals can charge in addition. Article 104 of the Hospital Act states that no financial compensation may be claimed for the costs covered by the budget of financial resources on a flat-rate basis. This applies, among other things, to the cleaning of the room, the replacement of the bedding and the meals, all covered by the BFM. The charging of these costs must also be placed in its historical context. For example, it was not obvious at the time to have a television set or a refrigerator in the room. This service is therefore not covered by the funding. However, the question is whether one should simply update and revise the minimum basic equipment of a room, so that it falls within the BFM. As has already been said, we are taking this issue on board in the context of the reform of hospital funding. Only after we have taken further steps towards a different hospital financing model, in which this year the various low variable, medium variable and high variable packages are established, can we possibly take out the supplements "comfort supplements" or "accommodation supplements," there are all kinds of names for "cannabis."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Of course, you're still working with your services to get hospital funding. I am glad that you want to include the problem of the hidden costs for what everyone considers to be basic equipment, a fridge, a television set or Wi-Fi service, and for which additional payments are now due, in the reimbursement from hospital funding. That is a good thing. I look forward to your reforms in this area and will follow this matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u42	Madam Secretary, Archbishop De Kesel said at the beginning of this year that Catholic hospitals have the right to decide not to carry out euthanasia or abortion. Most political parties reacted disheartenedly, but CD&V agreed with the bishop. Today it's bumblebee again in the paper. It concerns the different views on euthanasia and on whether or not the euthanasia law should be strengthened. For me, a doctor can never be required to perform euthanasia. That's obvious. Each hospital or residential care centre should offer the possibility of euthanasia to patients who ask for it. For me, it is clear that any hospital or residential care centre that goes against this is de facto violating the law. Moreover, doctors who do not like euthanasia should be obliged to refer to a doctor who does. The same applies to hospitals and residential care centres. The patient must be absolutely at the heart of this delicate issue. The law serves to ensure that a patient can die peacefully. With the current discussions about care institutions, we are not doing the patient any service. Madam Secretary, do you agree with me that care institutions that refuse euthanasia are de facto violating the law? Do you have a view on whether or not hospitals and residential care centres apply the euthanasia law? Do we have a view on how many hospitals and residential care centres have never performed euthanasia? Since hospitals are financed by public funds, will you continue to provide public funds to hospitals that refuse to carry out euthanasia? Do these hospitals and residential care centers refer to other hospitals or not? If not, will you do something about it? If euthanasia is not performed, do they carry out palliative sedation in your knowledge? Would we not better register these cases of palliative sedation in order to get a look at this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u43	Mrs Dedry, the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia is a law addressed to health professionals, in particular doctors and pharmacists. The law lays down a procedure to be followed by the professional so that the euthanasia is not classified as a crime. The euthanasia law does not explicitly state how euthanasia should be applied within the institutions, nor does it give the institution the explicit possibility to intervene. It is therefore, as always, an individual consideration of the care provider. I do not think it is up to the institution to interfere in this ethical consideration which the law has clearly entrusted to the care providers. Every care provider must know in all conscience whether he wants to participate in euthanasia. Of course, if he does not, he will have to refer if the patient's question remains repeated and has been put in writing. It should be noted, however, that after the various state reforms, the federal level is no longer competent for all aspects relating to the management and operation of the care institutions. Think, for example, of access to the institutions. A clarification of the euthanasia law on how institutions should deal with this problem could clarify this. It is up to the Chamber to start a discussion on this matter if necessary. This also applies to another point you mention, namely whether or not to require the registration of cases of palliative sedation. We do have the impression, however, that the number of cases of palliative sedation is rising with data from the field "Palliative sedation'. The number data to which you request at least the data that are the subject of the mandatory registration may be provided by the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee euthanasia. You can request it in writing so that we can deliver it to the Audit Board. In view of the recent position, I believe that a debate is pressing. We are always open to a debate, but it must be a debate that does not say in advance where one will land, in the event of a tightening up or greater accessibility to the possibility of euthanasia. If an evaluation is carried out and a debate is held, it can go in the two directions. So to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u44	Madam President, Minister, it is a good thing that we should have this debate in the Chamber and certainly in the Committee on Health. You are right to say that a clearer application of this law would bring relief. As far as the registration of palliative sedation is concerned, I fully agree with you. I asked you another question about euthanasia in the event of unbearable psychological suffering. You replied to me that it is indeed the intention to develop mental health care in such a way that we can avoid such questions. It is always the crisis situations that the press are experiencing, but I do not agree with those who want to tighten up the law now, while the basic elements of the law are not applied in a number of hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u45	The difficulty lies in the fact that matters relating to the euthanasia law are dealt with in the Justice Committee. At the same time, they treat people from their health situation. Therefore, if we decide to discuss this matter, we will have to organize ourselves to ensure that things are done properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u46	Question No 8378 by Mrs Van Hoof is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u47	Minister, for many years now the organization of emergency response has been structured in our country around medical, health and psychosocial relief operations, police supervision, logistical support and information and communication. After questioning the Minister of the Interior on this subject, it seems to me useful to ask you about the plans that exist in the services that should intervene simultaneously, especially in a health and emergency care environment. Indeed, as a result of the threats we face, large-scale situations must also be considered. It seems to me all the more useful to ask you about this because, for some time now, we have heard or read from actors on the ground, intervention services that announce in the media a lack of resources in case of an attack. At the same time, others state that emergency medical services, particularly in the Brussels Region, are fully adapted and ready to deal with such situations. Clarification is needed in this area and you are best able to provide it. Therefore, have the national emergency management mechanisms, apart from nuclear safety, been evaluated recently and if so, what are the conclusions and recommendations? Have crisis relief and first aid facilities been evaluated recently, particularly in large Belgian cities? When was the crisis plan of our country's hospitals and emergency response services evaluated, particularly in the Brussels Region? When was the last crisis exercise involving all levels of intervention completed for the last time? Are your services informed of the findings of the provincial exercises? Did they participate, if any? What is, to date, the capacity for supervision and care (medical reception, accommodation, medical equipment, etc.) of our intervention services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u48	Mr Pivin, as far as the emergency medical aid chain is concerned, the medical intervention plan is triggered in the event of a disaster causing a large number of victims. The medical intervention plan, which is based on medical intervention means (i.e. ambulances, ITPs and MURs), medical-sanitary reinforcements such as the Red Cross and the warning of hospital services, is organized provincially and under the supervision of the Governor. For the Brussels-Capital Region, the plan is under the supervision of the senior official. This is historically the case, it is not my decision. The medical intervention plan shall be activated by emergency centres 100 and 112 or by medical dispatching as soon as the following cases occur: either a minimum of five serious injuries, or ten injuries whose severity of the injuries is unknown, or more than 20 persons potentially at risk or to be evacuated, except in the event of the maintenance of public order. When the intervention plan is triggered, three SMUR teams and five ambulances are immediately sent by the Superior Council 112. If necessary, the number of resources implemented is increased and staff and logistics resources are strengthened. The intervention plan also determines the modalities for training stakeholders and the frequency of exercises. As a result, intervention plans are tested and evaluated several times a year in each province during both municipal and provincial exercises and after each trigger of the plan. With respect to exercises at the provincial level, the Disaster Management Service and/or the Emergency Medical Assistance Service shall normally be informed of or participate in such exercises. Disaster plans are also tested and evaluated on a regular basis. At the hospital level, the hospital services alert plan, the MASH plan, is intended to organize and reorient all the activities of the hospital when faced with an emergency situation. The MASH plan is developed, updated, tested and implemented by the emergency physician in collaboration with the multiple clinical management and departments. The MASH plan allows the internal organization to deal with an influx of victims from outside. Each institution determines the threshold and triggering conditions for its MASH plan. Currently, a revision of these plans is under way in collaboration with the Communities and Regions and MASH plans are verified by the supervisory authorities, i.e. the Communities and Regions, and approved by the Governor. Approval of the plan by the Governor is a prerequisite for approval by the competent authority. The addition of the capacity to take care of all Belgian means is 181 critical or serious injuries and 397 non-critical or serious injuries during the first hour. Capacity can be enhanced the following hours as required. In the letter that Mr Jambon and I sent to hospitals, we ask how long they can turn "classic" beds into emergency beds per half hour or per hour, after the first hour. Following this letter, we did simulations in various hospitals. Following the Paris attacks, a circular was sent to all actors involved in emergency medical aid recalling the existing guidelines and explicitly asking hospitals to submit their MASH plan and their Business Continuity Plan to an inspection and, if necessary, an update. Some have done the update, others have done the simulations. In addition, the Public Health FPS is in constant contact with the government's crisis centre, as well as other relevant security services, with a view to structured consultation. This is a permanent work, because it is better to be prepared for all circumstances. We were able to see that in Paris there had been problems in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u49	I note that the lessons have been learned from situations that others have encountered and that there is a realistic follow-up to the situation that we are dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u50	Question No 8465 by Mrs Cassart is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u51	Madam President, Minister, last year a very interesting book was published by a journalist on the deepest secrets of the food industry. Apparently, there's never any fresh produce in food factories. Everything is ground, dissolved or frozen. The difference in taste is dissolved with chemical flavors. Often the manufacturers themselves do not know what is in it. Nowadays, any packaging already states that the product may contain traces of x or y, because the same equipment is used. The E numbers are also replaced by, for example, topia starch or rosemary extracts, which are equally chemical, but whose name sounds better. Madam Minister, the food industry uses almost nothing but chemical miracles instead of nutritious, healthy, fresh ingredients. Clear food labelling may make it more difficult for some of them. For others, it can also be a way to innovate and it can be an incentive to look for healthy alternatives. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, do we have an overview of the E-numbers on Belgian products? If so, how many of those E-numbers have been replaced in recent years by other similar ingredients with a better sounding name? Secondly, which flavour enhancers are most commonly used in Belgian products? Is there any evolution in that respect? Thirdly, have Belgian companies already been flagged back because there were ingredients, such as traces of nuts, in their products that they had no knowledge of and which were not on the packaging, with consequences for allergic patients? How many companies are we talking about? Fourthly, my main question is this. Do you agree with me that clear food labelling, as it exists in the United Kingdom, can be an incentive to innovate the food industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u52	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, in our industrialised society many people no longer take the time to cook with fresh products. They make more use of industrially prepared food. For reasons of preservation, the attractive appearance of the product, the colour, taste and price, the food industry uses specific production processes and also adds substances. It goes without saying that substances are only allowed after their impact on public health has been extensively investigated. Substances with E-numbers in the labelling are additives, for which authorisation at European level is provided for in Regulation No 1333/2008 and Regulation No 231/2012. A list of substances authorised for use in foodstuffs under conditions, based on that European framework, is available on the website of the Public Health Office. I'll give you the link. My services regularly carry out studies on the intake of additives by Belgian consumers, because not all of these substances are actually used in Belgian products. A general label study carried out in 2012 shows that only a small half of the authorised additives were found on at least one label of a food on the Belgian market. We expect the new data on this from the food consumption survey which is currently being completed and from an ongoing study on a number of emulsifiers. Indeed, food manufacturers often seek to have fewer additives or additives with a better image on the ingredients list. In doing so, additives that have been authorised relatively recently, such as the extracts of rosemary or E 392 you mentioned, are gratefully used. The second question concerns flavour enhancers, of which 17 are currently allowed in Europe under the additives regulation. We are therefore talking about substances with E-numbers. Data on evolution in the use of taste enhancers are currently not available. Your third question is about allergens. The Federal Food Chain Safety Agency, for which the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Borsus, is responsible, carries out dozens of analyses annually on the presence of allergens that are not on the label. In addition, hundreds of labelling inspections are carried out annually, in particular on the legally required allergens as an ingredient. If irregularities are detected, action shall be taken. Since 2014, the website of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain has been listing under the heading "Pulse protection for allergens', the products for which certain allergens are not listed on the label. These are often allergens that are not part of the recipe of the product, but are unintentionally present in the form of traces. This list of non-compliant products results from checks, notifications or complaints. In 2014, nine such products were listed, in 2015 already 36. The product should not always be returned from the BFSA to the point of sale, but the BFSA tells me that it has not received reports of allergic patients. As far as your last question is concerned, I would like to remind you that legislation on labelling was harmonised at European level and has been thoroughly revised. From 13 December 2016, food labelling will be mandatory for the vast majority of pre-packaged foods. Many producers already tend to do so. In your question you used an additional voluntary front or pack labeling, such as the traffic light in the UK, where you work with colors. My services are currently examining which system in Belgium could have added value for consumers or producers. Some studies suggest that the indication of nutritional value at a glance encourages operators to improve the composition of their products. However, this is still the subject of discussions. I also follow closely the discussions on the resolutions on supplementary food labelling in your committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. We shall see, with the committee, where we are going to land with the proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u54	Madam Minister, on 8 January 2015, we were told by the press that an ambulance service in the Maasland was no longer allowed to leave because an in-service training in Aachen was not valid, not least where the basic training was also given. The same ambulance service was asked by another federal government agency, especially Defense, to receive military internships. This therefore indicates a lack of communication and transparency of the rules on cross-border diplomas, further training and so on. There is a lack of clarity about the Royal Decree of 13 February 1989 on training and completion centres for aid workers. The Royal Decree clearly states that basic training in Belgium must be followed. One can ask the Ministry of Health for an exception. However, it is less clear for continuing training of 24 hours a year. Do we have to ask for an exception every year? Is it possible at all that training abroad counts? Do you think that an exception should be requested every year for continuing training in one of our neighbouring countries? Is it enough to do this once? Are there any arrangements for such further training and training with our neighbouring countries in order to coordinate them as much as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u55	Mrs Kitir, I must make it clear to you that there are no training conditions for the ambulance services, but for the individual paramedic. I also emphasise that systems and training in the different EU countries are the country's own and not just comparable across borders. My answer is general and certainly not inspired by the incident you mentioned in the Maasland. In accordance with the Law on Emergency Medical Assistance of 8 July 1964, more specifically Article 6b, a training and completion centre for emergency workers has been set up for each province to ensure both basic and continuing training. These centres provide the certification of the aid worker-ambulancier, which is an absolute condition for the exercise of the function of aid worker-ambulancier. The Royal Decree on Training and Completement Centres for Aid workers/Ambulancers sets out the modalities for basic training and continuous training. Annex 2 to the Decision also describes the training programme. In answer to your first question concerning the granting of an exception for continuing training, I can answer that an application must always be made to the approved centre in advance for a course not organized by an approved centre, regardless of its location. The approved centre will then send the demand to the central services to assess this question by consensus with the other centres and whether or not to approve it. In this way, exceptions or derogations from the initial programme may be obtained. However, the question of examining it must always be there. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that no agreement has been reached on such training at present, given that the law on urgent medical assistance of 8 July 1964 and the Royal Decree on training and completion centres for paramedics clearly set out the modalities. I should also point out that there are very large differences between neighbouring countries in the field of professional activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have clearly replied to me that it is the intention that everyone should apply for the exception to be allowed to study abroad. I can understand this a little bit. However, we are now in a situation where, after more than 20 years, an individual aid worker who works on an independent basis is threatened with being suspended, because he has forgotten to ask for that exception once, and because he has followed his training abroad. In my view, this contrasts with the philosophy that this government is following. People need to learn more. The boundaries are open to everyone. When it comes to employment, we even have to look beyond the borders. It is not so much a question of the person in question not being educated, but it is useful to consider whether such a serious sanction is really necessary in this case. For me, it's a difference when someone doesn't follow their training or has followed them at an institution that doesn't meet the standards that the law allows. This person has been in training there for 20 years, but has forgotten to apply for it for one year. He is now threatening to suspend his entire life's work. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u57	Mrs Kitir, I would not go on to press releases. The checks are there and if such a heavy decision is taken, it is well founded. I do not go into an individual case, but if there is a very heavy dossier, the appropriate measures must be taken. When you need to be transported by an ambulance worker, you should be able to count on them to have the necessary training and skills, otherwise there is a danger to public health. This is why the services act if they do not follow further training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u58	Madam Minister, I fully agree with you that if a patient is to be transported, it must be done by someone who has received the right training. We certainly need to be vigilant in this respect. In this case, not only did I rely on the press release itself, I have been in contact with the person himself. In the Maasmechelen region he is very well known and there are a lot of people who know his work. We cannot say that he has not done his job well or incompetent in those 20 years. So I didn't just base myself on the press release.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u59	Minister, tobacco is trafficked throughout the country during its production, transportation and consumption. WHO estimates that 12% of the 6,000 billion cigarettes marketed each year worldwide are illicitly traded. Moreover, 90% of this parallel trade is made up of real cigarettes from cigar factories, which therefore benefit from it. Combating this illicit trade in tobacco is above all a public health measure. The aim is to prevent proven or potential consumers, especially minors, from having cigarettes at very low prices. In view of this situation, the WHO considers that the most effective means of combating all tobacco trafficking is the establishment of independent traceability of tobacco products. To this end, it has drawn up a protocol "to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products", the first protocol to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. This text, which provides for the implementation of traceability to be financed by the tobacco industry, was adopted on 12 November 2012 by the Conference of the Parties in Seoul. Minister, Belgium signed this WHO Protocol in 2013. However, it has not yet been ratified. Can you tell us if your government intends to ratify this protocol? If so, what is the deadline? If this protocol were to be ratified, what steps would be taken to implement it and to combat tobacco trafficking effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same question as Mrs Jiroflée's, which was asked a few weeks ago, but I would like to reply again. In 2013, Belgium signed the Protocol to eliminate this illegal trade. Belgium has indeed co-signed the international treaty to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco products. She hasn't ratified it yet. My administration is working on it. Currently, thirteen out of a total of forty countries have ratified this treaty. It will then enter into force. Articles 15 and 16 of the European Directive 2014/40 on tobacco products are also linked to the problem of illegal trade in tobacco. There is a traceability system for tobacco products and safety aspects to prevent illegal trade. These two items will come into force in 2019 for cigarettes and tobacco, in 2024 for other tobacco products, cigars, no doubt...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u61	Rolling tobacco, tobacco for pipes...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u62	Yes...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we will finish at 5 p.m., so we will not go further than the questions attached to point 14. If the timing allows, I will still ask my question about psychomotorists. The remaining questions will be asked at a later stage. Let us now turn to the problem of planning and the shortage of doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u64	Madam President, Minister, the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) has published, as every three years, a check-up "Performance of the Health System" developed by three federal institutions: the KCE, the INAMI and the Scientific Institute of Public Health (ISP). Through the analysis of 106 indicators, this report lists the strengths and weaknesses of the system and also indicates where it would be interesting to place priorities in order to maintain or even improve an efficient system. It is apparent from this report that KCE is concerned about problems in primary care, i.e. a shortage of general practitioners. While the situation has improved in recent years, the availability of general practitioners challenges the system's ability to meet future health needs associated with population aging. In fact, the proportion of new general practitioners graduating in all medical specialties does not reach the quotas set by the Planning Commission. To add figures to this problem, the Medical Supply Planning Commission estimates that the proportion of general practitioners among the diplomas should be as high as 40%. However, this figure was only 28% in 2013, which is largely insufficient to renew this sector where massive departures are announced for the next few years. Let us not even talk about rural areas that are very familiar with the problem and suffer more from it. I know very well what I am talking about because I come from a commune of 2,800 inhabitants. Minister, have you read the KCE report? What is your position on this? What is the status of the Planning Commission's work in cadastre analysis? Can you remind us of the planned timing? What are the solutions to prevent this situation from persisting and to increase the proportion of generalists among graduates? Do you have any contact with your colleague, Minister Marcourt, regarding the distortion between the over-diplomation of doctors and the shortage of generalists?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u65	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what Mrs Cassart-Mailleux has already said about the KCE report. This contains a number of remarkable figures, especially about the general practitioner. However, it has a very important position in health care. In other words, it remains a challenge, on the one hand, to attract sufficient staff and, on the other hand, to ensure that the profession remains sufficiently attractive. For the profession itself, it is important to work permanently, and this is what you are doing, inter alia, to reduce administrative burdens, optimize the operation of the guards and so on. Before the summer recess, we discussed the dynamic register in committee. In this context, you indicated that you would develop scenarios for specialities and that actions would be prepared for the bottleneck specialities. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update? Where do you stand with the development of these scenarios and the development of actions for bottleneck specialities? Are there any proposals to further improve the entry of students into general practitioner training? I know that the Communities are competent for the training of doctors and the introduction of subquotas, but have there been discussions with them on possible solutions and actions to deal with the problem in general medical practice? My second question concerns my favourite subject, namely the initial examination on the Walloon side. There have been several articles on this subject. For example, there is the study by the UCL, in which there is talk of a surplus of four thousand French-speaking doctors in 2020 instead of the three thousand proposed by the Planning Committee. The problem is only getting bigger and that also means that it will be more difficult to agree on a correct term and relationship with a negative lissage. I'm starting to get a little hopeless in this file, but you already know that. I have a question following an article published in the French-speaking media concerning the discussion on the French Community Decree which provides for the installation of the medical and dental student selection test at the end of the first bachelor's year. According to some, the decree would also discriminate against students who started their training already in the academic year 2014-2015, but did not fully succeed in that first year. Students who didn't get enough results for the exams in January 2015 could opt for a cure and finish their first bachelor's degree in one year or the option to spread their first bachelor's year over two academic years. Although that last group is still in the first bachelor year, Minister Marcort's decree exempts only that last group from taking the selection test in June 2016. That would be discriminatory for the students who opted for a cure, but eventually did not fully succeed during the second sitting in September. Are you still with me? It's gonna be a soup that way, of course. Let's get that straight. I understand that this would mean discrimination. So I fully understand the question of the students, but I also understand, of course, that this filter and the associated problems that arise from it are the responsibility of Minister Marcourt. It is absolutely not for you to take responsibility for this, but what interests me here is the question of how will the number of students exempted from assessing the effectiveness of the filter be taken into account. Can I assume that the exempt students who do not have to pass a test for Marcort will be counted by you for the purpose of obtaining the quotas? Otherwise, of course, it is only a very clever way of starting with more students in the second year, although of course we do not have a message of our own.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u66	Madam President, Minister, two recent reports provide conclusions that once again illustrate the need to reform the medical supply quota policy. On the one hand, the 2014 report of the Commission de planification de l'offre médicale points to an overrun of quotas and, in its conclusions, refers to the need to take new measures for the quota of doctors in the French Community. On the other hand, the third study of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care confirms the existence of shortages of general practitioners, especially in rural areas, which is very often referred to. I think there are two aspects to be distinguished: on the one hand, there are the findings concerning the forecast of quota exceedances imposed by 2018 and, on the other hand, there is of course the question of the relevance of the quotas imposed. We believe that these quotas are not relevant because they are not based on a specific cadastre. By drawing conclusions on untenable grounds, all the Commission's work is suspected of lack of objectivity and, unsurprisingly, its report has raised strong objections both from the Interuniversity Committee of Medical Students and from the Minister for Higher Education of the French Community. It should be noted that the Commission itself states that actual exceedances should be less than those projected because it does not take into account the following elements: graduates who will not introduce an internship plan in curative medicine, research mandates beyond 2014, deaths and abandonments in quotas. Madam Minister, I would like to know whether the term "abandonment" also covers the retirement of doctors, as I suppose. Furthermore, how do you explain the fact that, despite this reservation on the realities taken into account and the expectation of a dynamic cadastre, the Commission recommends that new measures be taken in the French Community? Shouldn't the Commission focus on finalizing the cadastre so that these quotas can be quickly adapted to reality? The KCE study, carried out in collaboration with the INAMI and the Scientific Institute of Public Health, which confirms the existence of shortages in rural areas, seems to me to reflect more the concerns of the actors on the ground. It is well known that in the Namur-Dinant-Luxembourg area, the age of doctors suggests stark shortages or even total shortages, which is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution with a view to quickly identifying INAMI numbers for young people who will be there. I hope that this proposal can be debated in this committee. In general, alarm bells are regularly drawn. Since the filing of my question, the UCL Medical and Paramedical Information Centre has again published a study with worrying conclusions, since it shows, in particular, that if nothing is changed, from 2021 to 2027, only 22% of Francophone physicians who are about to retire could be replaced by new ones. Shortages are already effective in some specialties. You yourself have recently confirmed a flagrant shortage of geriatric doctors in response to a parliamentary question asked by Mrs Jadin. We'd need another 700 geriatricians in our country. We have just learned that a 70-year-old doctor had to be recalled at CHR de la Citadelle de Liège because there is a shortage of specialists in blood diseases. Minister, will the government continue to deny the realities on the ground for a long time to satisfy those who, in the north of the country, continue to claim that Francophones overconsumption the medical supply, in disregard of all the studies that have demonstrated and yet demonstrate that this is not the case? Thank you for your thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u67	Minister, I try not to question you every time there is a report. However, there is not a month that has passed without a report highlighting the difficulties we have in meeting the needs of general practitioners and specialists. I am not asking you about the links with the organization of studies, which falls under another level of authority. What interests me is that there are doctors on the ground to meet the needs of citizens and patients. In 2015, the WHO identified a problem in responding adequately to the aging population, because there is a shortage of young people to take over doctors and, especially in general medicine, there is a problem with the distribution of these doctors. In its report on the performance of the health care system, the KCE, whose representatives we heard yesterday in committee, also highlights too long waiting times, a lack of renewal and therefore an ageing of doctors, a problem of distribution of general practitioners mainly on the ground. The number of foreign doctors who come to Belgium outside the quota has apparently increased by 33 % since 2010, as they were 504 last year. Solidaris has also published a study that highlights the aging of medical consultants and the lack of candidates to replace them. Family planning centres have long been telling us about the lack of general practitioners to perform abortions. You have had to make a royal order that allows you to retain their licence to doctors practising outside the practice, who do not participate in the guards and other obligations required by other generalists to meet this shortage problem. Each time, the answers received to these findings are that it is an illusion, that there are too many candidates in training, so there can be no shortage. Yet they're here. There is also a refusal to evaluate and organize the distribution of health actors on a territorial basis. For me, this is really a gap in the work done, in particular to make the cadastre more dynamic since this is the objective pursued. Another concern: Ms Denise Deliège and Mr Etienne De Clercq point out, in their work at the Centre d'information sur les professions médicales et paramédicales, that there are many shortages, a problem of renewal of doctors, that we will find ourselves with curves that will no longer correspond to the needs of the field because we do not take enough account of the length of the training and the renewal-ageing cycle between doctors. Everything goes in the same direction, except for the political responses given. I would also like to know what is the status of the work of the Planning Commission and all this work on the dynamic cadastre. I rest on the question of working on a territorial basis that makes it possible to approach the population, a system of care present or not present and the characteristics of this basin of care or this basin of life, no matter how it will be called. Is it not to be said that the important thing is the real labour force rather than the statistics compared with population densities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u68	Madam President, Minister, many things have already been said. A sentence in the KCE report says everything: "The indicators on the current availability of human resources in the field of general medicine and nursing question the ability of the system to meet future health needs related to demographic change." We don't have to project ourselves in two centuries, but in the near future. It's not new! Moreover, all the elements converge. We cannot fail to make you aware of this reality. In addition, there is a study, which does not emanate from the opposition, but from Professor Deliège of UCL. Madam Minister, you are constantly pointing at the number. I will not even mention the workload, but I would like to draw your attention to the age pyramid, which is much more stable on the francophone side. We also know that the deficiencies in training are more acute in general medicine and certain specialties such as geriatrics, paediatrics and emergency workers. The faculties of medicine and dentistry rang the alarm bell on January 29. You know that I regularly come back to you in this regard. You announced that the students who finish this year would not have any problems. However, there are still those who are in the pipeline and who will be subject to the selection set up in the French Community. Of course, we can't say that we're going to take care of the graduates while saying "zut" to those who are still in the curriculum. Guaranteeing an INAMI number for those who succeed is our collective responsibility. I heard – and this is not the first time – a somewhat caricatural presentation. I am telling you clearly - and also at the N-VA - the responsibility of the French Community today is to guarantee what has been agreed. It's a form of contract. There are so many young people who need to be selected to start their studies anyway. This selection is put in place. We need to ensure its effectiveness. On the other hand, with regard to the arrangements chosen, first of all, I cannot hear the N-VA saying at the same time in its competence, it is the Community, and all of a sudden you are showing us discrimination on the terms of the French Community, even though you have forgotten it in legal terms. We'd have to review your file! The Constitutional Court ruled on this matter a few years ago. Go back to the opinion of the Constitutional Court in this case! It's implacable! The selection is in place and effective, I know it because I see what is happening today in medical schools. Madam Minister, we cannot continue to postpone the message and to repeat that there is no problem, that everything is well and that at this stage nothing must be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u69	You say we can't. Who are you talking about? We've got to name it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u70	We can't, you can't go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u71	I never said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u72	You don't know what I'm gonna say yet. You cannot continue to be passive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u73	Mrs Fonck, stay on your question, the minister has to leave at 5:00 p.m.; otherwise there will be no answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u74	I have already heard you say in plenary that there is no demographic problem or shortage. You've been saying it all over again. I repeat that all reports go in the same direction. You cannot continue to deny the evidence. Secondly, I have already said it ten times, and I do not know how to say it otherwise, is it not time that, at all levels of power, all those in charge see themselves here on the assignment of the INAMI numbers, and that the question of the pipeline between the students who are leaving this year and those who are arriving and who are already being selected today is decided? I honestly find that in relation to our young people, doctors and dentists who will graduate, there is a hostage-taking that I do not think is acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, please know that your reply must be very brief, given the time allotted!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u76	Madam Chair, I thank the various speakers for their questions. I have, of course, taken note of the KCE report, to which the administration of public health and health insurance have made a major contribution. This report is certainly one of the various studies that will enable the Planning Commission to set the next quotas for 2022 and subsequent years and to make useful recommendations. We are still awaiting the production of additional data by government analysts. Following the release of the physician activity cadastre in June 2015, the Planning Commission continues its work. The mathematical model of labour force evolution has been redeveloped on the basis of a more powerful statistical and computer tool to allow for more relevant analyses. The physician working group met in January 2016 to discuss the first baseline scenario. It is also general medicine that starts the long list of scenarios that will be developed by the administrative analysts. Then, such a scenario will be developed for each of the 34 medical specialties. The scenarios will be finalized so that the Planning Commission can set and validate the federal quota that will apply in 2022. Quotas must be validated by April/May of this year at the latest. The same work is being done for dentists in order to set the quotas for 2021 as well. Secondly, the Planning Commission will continue its analytical work in order to develop alternative scenarios for the evolution of the labour force. As a reminder, the basic scenario is a scenario of continuity that reproduces for the future the same trends as those observed in the past. Only the demographics are changing and, with it, the structure of the Belgian population's consumption of care. On the other hand, alternative scenarios make it possible to envisage different developments and to model the impact of political decisions or any other variation in the many parameters of the model that the Commission's medical working group will consider plausible. This work will have to be finalised in order to define the application quotas from 2023 onwards in April/May 2017. The federal level has already put in place several elements that have already contributed to improving the proportion of general practitioners, even though the upgrading of medical remuneration remains critical. (...) the various Impulseo funds to assist in the installation of general practitioners who have a follow-up at regional level. The establishment of minimum quotas for certain specialties, including general medicine, also had this objective. With the sixth reform of the state, most of the instruments available to the federal government (the Impulse Fund, the minimum threshold) were transferred to the Communities. These include "subquotas". The members of the Planning Commission are, of course, sensitive to the situation of general medicine in relation to other specialties. I would remind you that the three Communities have a representative who sits with an advisory voice in the Planning Commission and participates in its work. In addition, the Health Working Group of the Interministerial Health Conference is currently working on the drafting of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Communities and the Federal Government in order to resolve the situation of the excess number of students. In this working group, when medical supply planning issues are addressed, representatives of the Ministers of Education are also invited, since this issue concerns both health and educational implications. In 2015, the French Community adopted a decree which indeed installed a filter at the end of the first bachelor's programme. A number of transitional measures were also provided for. It is not for me to judge the content of these measures. It is solely the responsibility of the Minister responsible, Mr Marcourt. I trust that both the French and the Flemish Community will adhere strictly to the agreements on compliance with quotas. The numbers to which reference is made do not occur at the federal level, but at the level of the Communities. It is the Communities that have to decide which students receive a university certificate and thus fall within the federal quota. We've come a long way. Last November, a catch-up movement was reported to try to overcome the historical shortage of general practitioners. In 2009 there were only 92 graduate general practitioners in Flanders. That has already gone up to 209 last year. That's sensitively better. The potential would be present to get 285 graduating general practitioners in Flanders in 2017, which is another improvement. In Wallonia we also see that the direction of the general practitioner attracts more students. However, it remains the case that doctors choose their own specialty after general education. It is therefore up to the faculties and the occupational groups, as well as us, to increase the attractiveness of the professions, for geriatrics, for general practitioners, for psychiatrists and for all other medical professions in which there is a shortage. Mrs Fonck, I have an ongoing dialogue with Mr Marcourt, but he is not yet ready to sign the protocol that I have been proposing for several months. I have a lot of patience, so I'm waiting. But I am also impatient, because I understand the stress of students and their parents. And for students, it only comes in addition to the stress of passing exams. We're working three on the solution. And, as I said, I need a political agreement with the Communities. And you know very well that it's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u77	Madam Minister, before I give the floor to my colleagues, can you tell me whether it would be possible to hold a meeting in our committee with the members of the Planning Commission, before the validation of the scenarios to be held in April or May?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u78	This is not my decision, but I can make the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u79	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. It is clear that you inherited the situation. At the federal level, various measures have already been taken. You mentioned them. The work you do in collaboration with the federated entities is important. But you can't decide everything. You said that you were in contact with Minister Marcourt, but that Minister Marcourt was not ready to sign the protocol. Work must be done within the French Community, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. As regards the attractiveness of the profession of general practitioner, work has already been done. This is a long-term work. The solution is not obvious. But we must continue to work in that direction. The figures you gave us are positive. In collaboration with universities and all levels of government, there is a need to continue to work on this issue. I thank you, in any case, for the work done. As you said, we're all worried about students, families. But I would remind you that this is a situation that you inherited. It is now time to make every effort to ensure that certain solutions are found.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You outline a good evolution in the attractiveness of general medical practice and the increase in the numbers. There's still work to be done, that's right. The subquotas are in the Community's hands, but in making the profession attractive, we do have a lot to eat. I have already mentioned a number of dossiers, such as the GPs, in which we certainly still have to take steps. I am not afraid that the discussions with Mr Marcourt are still stalling. Although, I'm still a little surprised. Mrs Fonck, it is true that I should not interfere with the modalities. If that were the case, there would probably have been something quite different. In fact, it is up to the Communities to determine the modalities of the initial examination. We do have something to say here about the figure that will then be charged to show whether or not it is effective. I am tired of the games that have been going on up to now in that area and continue to happen. I will continue to follow this dossier very closely. I have often said that we must bear the consequences of the failure of the Walloon Community to accept its responsibility for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u81	Madam Minister, all this does not support me in the view that it is necessary to be able to reform the system on the basis of an objective cadastre which takes account of the age of doctors and the geographical and socio-economic differences between the two Communities. It's not all that pink on the side of Flanders. In reading the KCE report, it must be noted that there are also doctors in excess. Perhaps it would be better not to put sticks in the wheels respectively and to consider, in the interests of each Community, the problem as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u82	Perhaps you were not present at that time, but we have already explained in detail how the work with the cadastre works. We talked about all the modalities, from age to activity, to urban or rural geography. All these factors are taken into account and that is why we are talking about "dynamic cadastre".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u83	Let us hope to see more clearly by April so that, at least, students, their families and everyone's needs can be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u84	In cooperation with the secretariat of the committee, we will see, on the one hand, whether we can organise a moment with the Planning Commission to continue the exchanges we have already had with it. I cannot accept saying that we must suffer the consequences of what is happening on the part of the French Community, even if I find that what is happening there in connection with the federal government is not ideal either. However, on the French-speaking or Dutch-speaking side, we cannot really talk about the consequences in terms of the costs of the health care system that would be due to a surplus of French-speaking applicants or physicians. Finally, the Planning Commission said that, in its dynamic cadastre, it did not have the capacity to introduce the territorial dimension. I cannot accept the idea that anyone who observes our health care system, including patients who accept deadlines, is faced with a shortage of doctors who are responsive to the needs. I therefore believe that there is an urgent need to introduce this territorial dimension, as well as an alternative way of assessing needs, perhaps by abandoning our mathematical models.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u85	Minister, work is under way on the cadastre. But clearly, quotas will only be determined for exits from 2022. However, there are major elements supported by figures: long before 2022, only two thirds of the replacement needs in the French Community - I am not talking about numbers - will be met between 2018 and 2026 if we rely only on the quotas that are currently unchanged. The work you do at the cadastre level is aimed at the 2022s and beyond, but the difficulties in terms of needs for patients will arise long before, starting in 2018. Last but not least, I am thinking of the students who have to go through the ping-pong between the federal and the Communities. A political agreement must be reached. A convention is not signed unilaterally! It is negotiated and must be signed, in this case, by three parties. I am sending the exact same message to Minister Marcourt. I would remind my colleague from the N-VA that in Flanders there is also an excess and there is no competition. There is an examination, not a competition, where the number of what has been put in place must be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u86	We don't make an exchange!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic333x.u87	The selection is decided in the French Community, which must respect the decisions taken. Compared to the work done by the deans of universities, the number of students who will continue their studies is in line with the figures determined by the federal government. It is her responsibility and she must apply it!
