ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this Chamber of the Presidency. We have a lot of questions, so let's get started. We will try to keep pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u2	Minister, I will ask the right question this time. They're already in the right order. Operation Medusa, which provides for border controls on the West Coast to stop migrants from Calais, was extended by ten days on 12 April. Border controls were launched for clarity on 23 February. At the committee meeting on 15 March, you said the following about the progress of the operation. I am not going to quote the full text of your reply, but it is actually about Article 25 of the Schengen Borders Code, which provides for a first ten-day period, followed by an extension of 20 days, with a maximum total period of two months. In the meantime, the operation was extended for 20 days until 12 April. At the end of that period, a last extension of 10 days was introduced. Actually, the operation should be over by now. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. May I assume from your previous reply that this 10-day extension is the last extension? This is indeed the case in practice. What measures will you take after these 10 days? How many people are being deployed for this assignment today and in how many shifts? How many transmigrants have been found in the coastal region so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u3	Mr Top, it is a good thing that you accepted the President's call for rapid progress. Since you have already answered them yourself, I do not have to answer your first question anymore. I shall then come to your second question. Based on an analysis of sites of interceptions and notifications, police controls or poke actions can be mobile and flexibly targeted at hotspot locations. There's no permanent police deployment at the moment. Powers were withdrawn for national priorities on Terro and national reserve for prison strikes. When capacity can be reoriented, they are used for non-permanent Medusa actions according to the principle I have just quoted. We're monitoring the case. Local police are monitoring the case. When necessary, we will act again, but I will not use additional capacity if it is not necessary. I have the impression that the Westhoek case is under control. With regard to your fourth question, on 24 April we had checked 1 778 transmigrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u4	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You have indicated that the situation is now more or less under control and that it is being monitored further. This question lives with the people in West Flanders and more specifically in the coastal region. I am pleased that the situation is being monitored and that a permanent mandate should not be given, because the pressure on the local police forces and on the reserve is high. Let us hope and assume that the situation can remain this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u5	Minister, this is also a question from a while back. It may be partially outdated and the answers may already have been formulated. On 2 April a number of young people from Molenbeek tried to reach the Beursplein. These young people were driven back. A number of people were arrested at Beursplein and Molenbeek. On several photos on Twitter was shown that defence was also present in Molenbeek itself. That is why I would like an answer to the following questions. Why was defense present in Molenbeek during these riots? In what context and on what protocol were these soldiers present? What mission did the military present carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u6	Mr Top, the military were present as part of their daily mission to secure specific places. They were not specifically deployed in the framework of the Order Service for that announced manifestation. The military were deployed in accordance with the initial protocol under which all military personnel are deployed until now, except those around the nuclear base. That's a bit of a different protocol. Any other military deployment is subject to the initial protocol that we concluded in January 2015. The military have not been given a specific mandate regarding the facts of 2 April which you mention. The soldiers in the picture were assigned to the railway police with the order to secure the metro-exit Count of Flanders to the Commissariat. They were deployed as a result of the daily reinforcement. So they were there the day before and they were there the day after. Since the metro station was temporarily closed, they were no longer able to carry out their initial tasks and moved to the Commission where they were then shown. So it's actually a coincidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I've received a more than satisfactory answer. It was actually a striking observation on the photos and the footage. That's why I'm asking. This indeed fits into the normal protocol as you say. Your answer is therefore sufficient for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u8	Minister, geographical profiling is used to try to prevent crimes. This is done by mapping the spatial and chronological behavior of criminals. Maping their daily routine and minor errors makes their behavior predictable and that offenders can be taken into account or links can be made. Originally, the technique was mainly used as a tool to capture multiple victims, but today its application is also growing in counter-terrorism studies. The federal police have been using geoprofiling techniques for several years, but unlike the Netherlands and Germany, our country has not yet freed up any means to use a geoprofiling expert or to acquire a geographical computer system that has counterterrorism applications. Such a computer system was already designed by a Canadian company in collaboration with experts in geoprofiling. Minister, how many people are being deployed to the federal police today to do geoprofiling? Do you intend to recruit additional people who can apply this technique in the future? Are you aware of the existence of a geographical computer system with counter-terrorism applications? Is such a programme already being used within the federal police? How do you view investment in such a computer system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u9	Mr Demon, the cell of behavioral analysts in the Department of Behavioural Sciences of the central management of the technical and scientific police currently has five persons who all perform geoprofiling missions. Since the organic table of this cell provides for 6 relationships, there are now 5, 1 place was opened under phase 4 of the implementation of the optimization of the federal police. Six persons have applied for this position. The selection interviews are scheduled for May 24th. In addition to the Canadian company that has developed geoprofiling for crime phenomena in general, geoprofiling has now been explicitly applied to terrorism by the American Kim Rossmo of Texas State University. He himself gives more information about this in an article in the scientific journal Politicing. We will mention this on the website in the written reply. This information has been known very recently by the Belgian police services. It remains to be seen whether the techniques described by the American Rossmo can apply in the Belgian-European context. In the course of the following weeks, this information will be checked and assessed against the feasibility in the Belgian context. Afterwards, a balance will be made as to whether or not this can be done and will be applied by the federal police. You may know that I am in favour of introducing more innovation technologies into police work. I refer to ANPR, PNR, iPolice and so on. Given the use of such geoprofiling technologies in the area of jurisdiction of the judicial police, this will also be co-examined and approved by my colleague in the Justice Department. We are therefore working on the evaluation process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u10	Minister, our intelligence services are doing a good job. If we can better support such matters, we must give them the support they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u11	Minister, the excerpts from the audit report of Whyte Corporate Affairs published in the press a while ago make the back cold. We learn not only that there are conflicts and tensions that prevent the Belgian nuclear security agency from functioning properly, but also that there are many internal doubts about the Agency's independence: "an impression that the Agency's independence from the political and economic world is gradually being reduced", writes the listener. Employees ask themselves "if management is not under pressure to conclude certain compromises, particularly on nuclear issues". This finding is apparently shared by external respondents, who say that "AFCN seems weak, and sensitive to political and economic influence". As a reminder, at the PTB, we have already for a long time denounced the links between Electrabel and, for example, Minister Marghem's office, which has reviewed the composition of this cabinet, as well as a government policy that is subject to the private interests of energy giants. All controversial decisions on the maintenance of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 cracked reactors or the extension of Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants were made with the clear support of AFCN, which put its weight in the balance, arguing that its analysis was scientific and independent. It turns out they're all super profitable decisions for Electrabel. I do not recall Germany's position, etc. I want to remind you that a nuclear power plant is not a biscuits factory. The stakes are enormous and the consequences could be disastrous as we saw in Fukushima. The PTB therefore calls for a debate on the basis of this public report. We also believe that there should be a comprehensive nuclear-exit plan. My question is simple, Minister, have the Agency's conclusions actually been adopted under pressure from the political and economic world?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u12	Minister, I think I'm going to ask the shortest question I've ever asked. Its length will be inversely proportional to the importance of its content. [[It relates to the audit of the Federal Agency.]] Given the seriousness of the findings, given the responsibility of the management and the administrators, you cannot remain, as a minister, in this usual position which sees you fall behind the authority of the Agency, since it is this same authority that is called into question. My question is therefore very simple: what conclusions do you draw from this audit, and what concrete follow-up will you give it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u13	Minister, much has already been said about this alarming audit, which was commissioned in response to the mistakes made by the Director General of the AFCN last year. It is quite surprising that this audit ended up in the press. How did you learn about the findings of this audit? I was going to ask you if we could dispose of it, but it has since been distributed to parliamentarians. Minister, how do you feel about what is in this audit? Do you share the findings? Is the report before us final? Are you considering follow-up to address identified deficiencies? Did you have an opportunity to talk to Jan Bens about the content of this audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u14	Minister, a number of fellow Members have already mentioned a number of relevant elements. So I don't have to repeat it. The reading of the full audit reveals many concerns. In the version that has been made available to Parliament in the meantime, a number of things have been blackmailed. After reading some concrete testimonies from the field, even my mouth fell open. I know the workings of the agency quite well and can be quite critical about it. Even for me, however, the full audit was a surprise. The audit reinforced doubts about the independence of the Agency, as well as about the communication approach of the Agency. In my question, I would also like to emphasise that last element. A great deal of attention has already been paid to the position of independence, and I hope that your answers will also pay attention to this. However, the importance of communication should not be underestimated. It has been my belief for a long time that the nuclear sector must move forward in this area. I am also confirmed by the FANC's communication audit. The note states that the so-called "scientific culture' provides a certain degree of secrecy. That's really something we need to get rid of. The quotes from the note on independence were included in the written version of my question. In the meantime, you have been able to take note of this, not only through my question but also through the audit. I'd like to ask you a few more explicit questions as a custody minister. What is your response to the content of the full audit? In what specific cases would there have been political influence? Are you prepared to have this further investigated by or with these or other auditors? What steps have you taken since you had that information? In the meantime, there was a meeting of the board of directors, in which a government commissioner sits. What was the position there? Have you also developed initiatives? What was the role of the cabinet in establishing the audit and in choosing the office? What was the position of the Government Commissioner on the Governing Board in advance and at this time? What conclusions do you draw from this audit and also from the management audit that has been carried out in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u15	Minister, many things have already been said, but there are two important things I would like to touch on again. The whole audit puts two things in a different light, in particular the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 and the re-launch of the crack plants. Let us remember, however, that with regard to the extension of the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2, the FANC had in fact to speak in principle at a time when Parliament had already given the green light. If one speaks of possible political influence, this is certainly not to be ruled out. With regard to the safety guarantees for the Objective 3 and Tihange 2 tearing plants, we must recall that up to twice the FANC advised positively on the reopening, without a unanimous opinion from the international expert committee. Each time there were members within the Committee who objected to the reopening and yet the FANC allowed it. Let us also remember that the FANC entrusted Electrabel himself with the investigation of the cracks. For example, Electrabel was allowed to choose the experts who had to carry out the research. Of course, we all knew that already, but in the light of the report we are now familiar with, this is once again going to be in a different perspective. I'll come to my questions. What action will you take on the audit of the FANC? The audit calls for urgent measures to improve the functioning of the FANC. Which one do you propose? Will you take the necessary measures to respond to the criticisms and proposals of the audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the file is closed. I have only one question and I come back to the conclusions of the audit carried out, in particular on the communication by AFCN. This audit is very critical. Therefore, Minister, I wish you could have told me what useful follow-up you are going to give to this audit, following its publication. We actually received it with coloring but...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u17	Mr Minister, my question concerns the audit of the FANC, but I think we are on two tracks here. In the meantime, this audit has been distributed to Members of Parliament, but I thought you had ordered an audit mainly in relation to the communication issue within the FANC. What I read in the press, however, is a completely different direction. The same is said here by my fellow Members. It is more about the independence of the FANC, which I do not think was the intention of the study. Those press articles were also published when the report was not yet available, so I have my reservations about this too. I even hear that certain demarches "would" have happened at the translation agency in order to leak. Mr Minister, I have the following questions Do I have the conclusions on independence, as they were written in the press? Or are the wrong conclusions and should we simply address the problem of communication? Do you know if certain demarches would have been made through that translation agency? If so, will you have that examined?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, AFCN is aware that some aspects of its organisation in terms of communication could be improved. That is why, at my request and at the request of the AFCN Board of Directors, it was agreed in mid-2015 – after a difficult communication from Mr. Bens, as Mr. Nollet mentioned – to commission a full audit of the communication and an annual evaluation of the members of the Executive Committee. This is an unprecedented measure. The two missions were carried out separately by specialised offices, which were selected through a public tendering procedure. The AFCN Government Commissioner received a copy of the audit on April 8. Someone asked me when my office was informed. So that's the answer. I would point out that I am only talking about the communication audit. The results were presented on 29 April to the members of the Board of Directors, who had previously received a right of review in the reports. I have given the Commissioner of the Government the task of scrutinizing with the Board the content of the findings and recommendations of these audits. Indeed, it is up to the AFCN Board of Directors to draw the conclusions of these audits. I will, of course, support the measures deemed necessary. At the meeting on 29 April, the recommendations contained in the report were approved. The Director General of the Agency was then asked to implement them as soon as possible. I will quickly mention these recommendations. First, the Agency must give an important place to communication in the organization chart. Secondly, it must adapt the profile of the person responsible for communication to this new situation. Third, it must review the missions and tasks of its communications services and/or change their composition. Fourthly, it must re-examine the main objectives of its communication in order to strike the right balance between transparency and pedagogy. Finally, pending the formal implementation of the above-mentioned titles, the Agency must carry out a series of more tactical actions. The old report we are talking about here, which causes so much fuss in the press, is that of the FANC's communication audit. It is a comprehensive report of a dozen pages, which gives an overview of both the external circumstances and the internal situation of the FANC and its impact on the Agency's communication. What the report does not do is specifically evaluate the independence of the FANC. The authors of the communication audit confirm that the passage quoted in the press is in no way a conclusion of a lack of independence. At no time have they heard evidence or examples during the audit that support the impression of reduced independence among a number of persons. The reports in the press and the statements in the report on economic and political independence have also alerted me. I asked the Government Commissioner to continue in the Management Board specifically on that point, which was not included in the recommendations, but as a peripheral point. I know some of you won't believe me, but the last thing I want is a politically or economically influenced FANC. The Agency is independent and therefore the government follows it. In the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee, the Bureau of Whyte Corporate Affairs will be questioned again. In an e-mail dated 1 May 2016, it confirmed the independence of the agency that has been questioned in the press over the past few days: "Our mission was to analyse the Agency's internal and external communication. We have done this on the basis of conversations with a number of internal and external stakeholders. As explained yesterday at the beginning of our presentation, our final report reflects the perception of the stakeholders questioned. It is therefore in that spirit and with that nuance that you should read the following passage from the report." That passage states that there is an impression that the independence of the agency towards the political and economic world is gradually reduced. I quote: "This sentence is in no way a conclusion of a lack of independence." This sentence shows that in our interviews with internal and external stakeholders, we have heard several times that there is an impression that this independence is sometimes under pressure or reduced by, above all, a lack of a clear vision of the Agency. At no time have we heard evidence or examples during our audit that make this perception a reality. The conclusions drawn by the person who leaked the report and by the media at the beginning of this week do not correspond at all to the spirit of our report." So much for the quote from Whyte Corporate Affairs. I assume that the members of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety will also ask that question. Thus, according to the authors, the conclusions drawn by the person who leaked the report and by the media do not correspond at all to the spirit of their report. It is also regrettable to me that some people consider it appropriate to deliberately leak an internal report to the press prematurely, even before the members of the Management Committee and the Board of Directors of the FANC have been able to look into it themselves. In this way, a complete organisation and its individual employees are publicly harmed, although the strong commitment and expertise are generally recognised. As a blow to the flame, the leaked report is also instrumentalized to attack the decisions of the FANC in certain files. However, the conclusions of the audit report do not at any time call into question the decisions of the FANC. On 10 May, a copy of this document was sent to the services of the Chamber, which appears to have arrived from the communication audit to be distributed among the members of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee. As far as the second part is concerned, the assessments of the management are personal data and should therefore be treated with respect for the privacy of the data subjects. What I can tell you is that in the evaluation of the different directors, three levels of performance have been maintained by the audit firm, which is very good for some, good for some and weak. We take note of the very good evaluation of some members of the Executive Board, who we thank and encourage to continue in this way. The board members who have been evaluated as well will receive additional support and training to continue working on the identified improvement points. For those who have been given an insufficient form, the Management Board will take the appropriate measures. In any case, until further notice, I maintain my full confidence in Jan Bens, the Director-General of the FANC.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u19	Minister, I take your words: "I have full confidence in Mr Bens. The conclusions drawn by the press do not correspond to the spirit of the report." It is rather dismaying to see that, finally, at the end of a long answer, you are sweeping the problems of independence raised with one turn of the hand. It's an important problem. I no longer count the number of times you have repeated, particularly in this committee, that your policy is to follow what the AFCN decides. Whenever there is a decision to make, you will reply: "I will follow what the AFCN will decide". In view of these problems of lack of independence, we are at the heart of the problem of your pro-nuclear policy. I am therefore not surprised that you are denying the conclusions of this report. It's obviously easier. If you didn't, you wouldn't have an alternative to your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u20	What conclusion are you talking about in the report? I don't deny any. I clearly confirmed that the Administrative Committee had decided to implement each conclusion, each recommendation in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u21	If, on the one hand, you recognize that there is a problem of independence at the level of the FANC, you cannot say, on the other, that you maintain full confidence in the leadership of the FANC. It's one or the other, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u22	Mr President, the situation is very serious. I feel like we didn't read the same report. The Minister asks for examples. I'll give him some. A spokesman said that he was sometimes forced to respond to a journalist because he was forced to do so; he had no choice. He knows what he's talking about isn't on the road. So he feels awfully bad. Facing that, minister, you can't turn around the pot. These are not recommendations in the air! These are facts. That's what a guy who works, and who's supposed to say what's going on since he's a spokesperson, says in audit hearings. Do you want any observations made and against which there is no recommendation or consideration? I'll give you some. Note No. 2 in the document circulated to the Sub-Committee on page 4: "The audit highlights an extremely tense internal climate and a very negative working atmosphere". Next page: "Open tensions and conflicts within the Management Committee". Finding #3: "A divided direction and a lack of shared vision. The auditors stressed the lack of collegiality, the lack of leadership (this clearly concerns Mr. Bens!) and positioning, lack of understanding of the priorities to be given, lack of authority". These are terms used in the audit report No. 3 as distributed. Finding 4: "Low institutional capacity. The Agency is not recognised as capable of imposing itself in the landscape and showing the direction in which it is moving." And in relation to that, nothing! Nada! Niets! No recommendation, no decision in your head: complete and blind confidence in Jan Bens! What more do you need? The auditors make recommendations because they are asked to do so, but the observations they make and which explain why the communication is more serious and more important and in relation to it nothing! Neither in your response, nor in what the board of directors is putting in place, nor in what management is considering itself! And that is in the part of the documents distributed. What I have just quoted is not in the black part of the documents. It is in relation to this that I would like to say that the situation is serious: it is because we do nothing about it and we act as if everything was going well. Your position on these findings is totally below the required level. It is your political responsibility to also take these findings into account and draw the necessary operational, political and organizational conclusions. And I did not even mention the independence aspect that was developed by my colleagues. I have talked about internal conflicts, the incapacity of leadership, the lack of communication sensitivity, the lack of pedagogy, the logic of silos; these are terms that are included in the first chapter of the report, which does not talk about communication but explains the context in which communication occurs. There's nothing on this! It's all right, trust Mr. Bens! That's not right, minister. That's really not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u23	Minister, I will not be so categorical, but I think the way you react to the actions you are asking for following the conclusions is sound. On the other hand, when you finish your answer by telling us that Mr. Bens retains your full confidence, I cannot follow you. I have been a member of the nuclear safety subcommittee for almost ten years. I am therefore this issue of nuclear safety, the monitoring of contacts with the Agency and with the previous Director General of the Agency for years, and I have never felt as much lack of confidence as I do today. I must say that I have lost confidence in this direction. The events that have been accumulating for months can only lead to mistrust. I think at some point you'll have to make yourself clear. The line you follow saying that you have your agency and you have to trust it, because it is made up of specialists and is independent, is challenged by the audit. The audit says, however, that officers bring us to these conclusions and feel that, from within, the Agency's independence from the political and economic world is not guaranteed. This is very alarming, especially when you rely on the opinion of this agency, on the basis, in particular, of a guarantee of independence, which is being questioned here. With regard to the decisions taken, I have also read that some experts have said that the previous director would not have taken the same decisions, in particular regarding Doel 3 and Tihange 2. Some said that if Mr. De Roovere was still in place, we would certainly not have made the same decisions. I am also concerned about this, especially since Mr Bens said, while he was operating manager at Doel ten years ago, that Doel 1 and 2 could still be used brightly for forty years without problems, and that we had to start trying to convince the policy. Then, a few years later, it is he who has to submit a report, and we think he will be objective. We still have a problem with this. I don't think you're going to be able to stick to that line indefinitely. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u24	I think you are a little optimistic about the reading of the audit. I fully recognise that the strict communication problems that are being addressed are being addressed with a number of recommendations. It is a good thing that they have been approved by the Management Board. I trust that this will be followed up as well. The commotion, which has been there, will ensure that follow-up. On the other hand, communication problems are not isolated. This is the merit and relevance of the audit: it is not a problem of the FANC's communication service, the problem is more fundamental and concerns the operation of the FANC. Mr Nollet mentioned the examples: a divided management committee, an unclear position throughout the institutional landscape, no clear vision, a lack of leadership. Those findings are all made. I do not think they can be left blue or referred to the board of directors. Moreover, so far these findings have not been translated into recommendations or actions. That is problematic, especially at a time when there are a lot of sensitive nuclear dossiers on the agenda. There's some criticism of the method. As a Member of Parliament, I try to do what I am paid to do: to get things moving, to get things moving. Unfortunately, my experience, Mr Jambon, is after five years that these methods must be applied in order to get that agency moving. It is a tanker that moves very hard. After five years of questioning, there are now a number of recommendations to improve communication. Around the other findings, there is no recommendation yet, and I regret that, because in principle the Green Group is the Agency's main ally in the field of nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u25	Mr Minister, I am a little surprised that the alarms about the operation of the agency, which are contained in the report, even if not in the recommendations, are largely ignored. But by ignoring problems, they certainly won't be solved. With your answer, you certainly ignore the problems. I sometimes have the impression that we are dealing here with a feuilleton, in which we are continuing to read at the end of the episode. I am convinced that the discussion we are having here will certainly be continued and that we will then have to admit that we were already aware of the poor functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u26	Minister, there is an audit of the communication, it is an element, but there is still the functioning that the audit reveals at the level of the AFCN. I believe I read a number of signals and flashing lights in the words that are written. It is not the e-mail sent to you by the listener on 1 May, which says "it is not at all in the press what we heard, the state of mind of the report". In any case, there is what is written in the document, and there are a number of comments on my part in any case. Second remark. You said there were five recommendations. You will apply them, etc. I would like them to be assessed relatively quickly in implementation and implementation, to see how we are moving forward and where we are going. We will soon have an opportunity in the nuclear sub-committee to review this audit and to have more details. At this meeting, we will focus on really analysing what has happened, in particular, in the content of what is said and not just in the state of mind, as it is presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u27	Minister, I note that you insist on an annual evaluation and that you have submitted the principle of independence to the government Commissioner, who in turn submitted it to the authorities themselves. I note that you insist on the implementation of the recommendations. All this reassures me that you take the problem of independence very seriously and are very committed to the principle, contrary to what some fellow Members here want to make appear. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the premature leaking in the press has certainly not served the truth in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 11044 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u29	Deputy Prime Minister, an information published in Het Nieuwsblad takes up the statements of a young candidate for jihad, questioned by the Brussels courts after his arrest. He states that one of the jihad-qualifying tests imposed on him by the recruiters as well as four of his companions had consisted, for each of them, in the aggression of a homosexual met in a gay place, taken home, violently beaten, tied up and stripped of his money and his valuables. The purpose of this mission was to show the "courage" of future combatants, their ability to fight within the caliphate. It was also intended to bring back money to finance jihad. Deputy Prime Minister, do you have any information confirming these acts of aggression and theft? We know that in the so-called caliphate, we don't hesitate to rush homosexuals on the tenth floor as soon as we know they're homosexuals. How many cases have they been the subject of complaints? Have you contacted gay companies to invite them to warn their customers about these practices? How is it possible to act to protect homosexuals from this danger without risking to fall into the crime of facies and stigmatize gays of Arab origin, especially since candidates for jihad are also Europeans converted to Islam?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u30	Mr Flahaux, the statements to which you refer are the subject of a Brussels judicial file which is not yet under investigation but in information. The information is covered by professional secrecy. So I only have the information in the press. According to this information, these are only declarations which still need to be confirmed, supplemented and/or nuanced by the investigation. I will contact my colleague the Minister of Justice. Once we have more precise information, we will not hesitate to take the necessary action. I'm not aware of any similar files. To answer your last question, I am sensitive to the safety of all citizens on Belgian territory, regardless of their sexual orientation. To do so, the police monitor on the ground, inform citizens and take the necessary measures. Nevertheless, she is not the only social actor involved and, in this respect, I believe that the work of the associations complements that of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers, which correspond exactly to what I wanted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u32	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the nuclear and radioactive terrorist threat has become one of the major challenges to international security. This threat is constantly evolving. That is why, since the first summit held in Prague in 2008, on the initiative of President Obama, on nuclear security, priority has shifted from the limitation of nuclear arsenals by States to the security of civilian nuclear. This security is intended to prevent the destruction of nuclear sites, as well as the theft of nuclear and radioactive materials contained therein. They could be used to make dirty bombs. This issue was addressed at the fourth Washington Nuclear Security Summit on 1 and 2 April, in which you participated. The signed agreement is a compromise between international action and the maintenance of the sovereignty of States, and hence their responsibility to secure their nuclear sites, both civilian and military. However, in the face of the threat of those whom I call the "Naz Islamists", enhanced international cooperation has been decided to increase atomic security with verification mechanisms and systems in order to prevent terrorists from taking possession of them. After 22 March 2016, the security of our nuclear sites was enhanced, and I congratulate you. The investigative evidence found on information held by terrorists about nuclear sites and their officials both in Belgium and in Germany, at the Jülich nuclear research centre, made it necessary to adopt additional measures to avoid attacks on our nuclear sites and any attacks using dirty bombs. The Kleine-Brogel site has also seen its security enhanced. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you tell us, without going into the details that must be kept confidential for security reasons, what kind of threats have been assessed by OCAM in recent months in nuclear matters? What measures have been taken to address them? [[What assessment is it or will it be made, and by which agency?]] The Summit defined prevention, detection of nuclear material, modalities for intervention in the event of theft, sabotage, malicious acts, illegal transfer, illegal trafficking, unauthorized transfer. What changes has this led to in terms of how these matters should be dealt with in Belgium? As this threat has an international dimension, particularly in the area of trafficking, what measures have been taken jointly to strengthen the fight against this aspect? What are our most important and active partners on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u33	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, since the attacks in Paris on 13 November 2015, all Belgian nuclear sites have become more vigilant. This increased vigilance is reflected in a series of additional security measures at nuclear sites. I cannot, of course, give you the details so as not to question the effectiveness of all these measures. In collaboration with the other bodies concerned, AFCN closely monitors the threat to Belgian nuclear sites, in order to ensure that they are adequately secured at all times. The Nuclear Security Summit (NSS) provided both a state of affairs, a reflection and a course of action for the future. The commitments made during the NSS constitute commitments of a political nature at the highest level and non-legally based on principles and guidelines which the participating States will subsequently have to decline within the framework of international standards, their regulatory framework and their national practices. Through diplomatic efforts around the Summit to encourage States to take the necessary steps, the International Atomic Energy Agency was able to announce, a few days after the Summit, on 8 April 2016, that the required number of States had ratified the amendment to the Convention for the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, thereby enabling its entry into force on 8 May 2016. The Convention and its amendment are an essential tool for combating the global threat of nuclear and radiological terrorism. This Convention has already been transposed into Belgian law. As far as Belgium is concerned, the most concrete political commitments are certainly the following. First, the maintenance, development and implementation of our nuclear safety regulatory framework. Secondly, the development of our ability to respond, that is to say, to intervene. I refer you to the deployment of armed forces to our nuclear sites and the establishment, in the medium term, of a federal police force specializing in surveillance and protection. Thirdly, the development of cybersecurity. In this regard, I refer you to the creation last year of the Cybersecurity Centre, with which the AFCN collaborates. These points naturally constitute the road map, the mandate of our competent national authorities. The work of the NSS focused on demonstrating to the participants the need for close and in-depth international cooperation. The action plans agreed at the summit thus aim to strengthen the coherence of multilateral nuclear security cooperation within the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has a key responsibility and a central role in this area, the United Nations, Interpol, the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism (GICNT) and the Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. In addition to multilateral cooperation, Belgium shall ensure that intensive bilateral cooperation, depending on the subjects, is established or strengthened, in particular with neighbouring countries and with our main allies. I would add that none of the OCAM's analyses led to the conclusion that there was a specific threat to nuclear sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u34	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your thorough and thorough answers. I will highlight two points. First, the problem of drones in the vicinity of power stations. Secondly, for certain power stations such as Doel and Chooz, the cooperation set up – I imagine – with neighbouring countries to enable better security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 11091 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u36	Minister, civil protection is helping the population in the event of small and large disasters. In addition, civil protection also provides reinforcement to emergency services, with heavy and specialised equipment. You are in the process of reforming civil protection. You have already clarified that the tasks of civil protection will be more strictly defined and that there will be less overlap with the tasks of the fire department. The current civil protection posts are concerned about the possible deletion of posts and the tasks they may or may not carry out. It is therefore necessary to clarify this very quickly. It has been a few months since the first steps were taken. What is the status of civil protection reform? When do you want final countries with a reform plan? Some posts are highly specialised in a specific part of the current task package. I am thinking here, for example, of the fact that I am from Bruges, so the North Sea is very close to my heart for the fight against things that are taking place in the North Sea. Will such tasks not be hampered by the possible closure of specialised posts? Many volunteers are required to keep this in mind and choose civil protection just because of the specific task a particular civil protection post carries out. In the post in Jabbeke, for example, many volunteers choose to help if things happen at sea. It is not feasible for volunteers to move 100, 150 or hundreds of kilometres. In what way do you see the commitment of the current volunteers, if certain posts were to close?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u37	During the first half of 2016, the exercise will take place on the assignment of the tasks to civil protection or to the relief zones and on the criteria for the number and location of the barracks. I said that earlier in my explanatory statement. Negotiations will continue in 2016 with the social partners on the status of fire brigades. In addition, negotiations on equipment and housing will also be conducted, as will those on budgetary netting, which are related to this. I have always said that if we change tasks again, material and people will also be transferred. This must therefore also be the subject of a fair set-off. That happens in the course of 2016. It is planned that the reorganisation will be complete in 2018. As regards the possible closure of barracks, two sets of criteria will be used. On the one hand, there are the economic criteria: the state of the current infrastructure, the necessary costs, the expandability of the sites and so on. On the other hand, there are operational criteria: location, accessibility, mobility and so on. The logic of the fire reform means that the new, larger relief zones are responsible for the civilian security chain. This is also one of the starting points in the reform of civil protection. The factors "urgency' and "neighbourliness' shall relate to the relief zones, taking into account their responsibilities and also their scale. At present the exercise is made on the distinction between urgent and specialised tasks. Effective and efficient deployment of specialised equipment also depends, inter alia, on the appropriate analysis of the incident by the Director of the OPS command post, the DirCpOps in specialist terms, to quickly identify the risks, the procedures for summoning the required equipment, targeted investments and the permanent presence of specialised personnel in the civil protection barracks. It is important to stress that civil protection distinguishes two types of volunteer: on the one hand, those who help, for example, in filling sandbags in the event of flooding and on the other hand, those who take on the more specialised work on the basis of their training. If a volunteer wishes to devote himself in the future to some specialized task, he will have to undergo the necessary training. Everyone will, of course, be trained or trained for the assignment that rests on him. For a number of volunteers it is possible that they would no longer feel called because the barracks are too far away from his residence. In that case, the person still has the alternative to engage as a volunteer in a rescue zone. This transition can also be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u38	I paid a visit to Jabbeke a while ago. I've seen that the specialized equipment is there. There were a lot of volunteers who really chose to help if something happens at sea. People from the FPS Health and the Environment are also present. These matters cannot immediately be placed under economic or operational criteria. The same goes for the volunteers. I think you're bypassing that point. The volunteers have chosen to help when things happen in the North Sea. With the Flinterstar and such, it has been clear that these people are needed. Maybe there should be a third criterion. Those people aren't supposed to help fill sandbags. If they volunteer in that place, they didn't choose that. Furthermore, the timing is not really clear to me. You will place the tasks in categories in the first half of 2016. You want to be operational on the field in 2018. When will you decide how many barracks you'll work with?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u39	Yesterday we made the decision to start the work in those IKWJS. After all, we have a model to focus on. How fast everything can go, will depend a little on the work in those IKWJS. I hope to be able to propose this at government level before the summer. However, I must make some reservations because it depends on the work in the However, my cabinet is ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u41	Mr Hedebouw is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u42	Mr Minister, after police forces in Antwerp have already been called into question for racism and corruption, Brussels and Mechelen agents are now also being called into question for similar facts. Every time, they're cops who abuse their power to attack vulnerable people. In recent months such facts have also been brought to light by the Ghent police. In my view, therefore, there appears to be a problem in some police forces in the cities. We often see young, graduate cops starting to work in cities. Often there is a different mentality and multiculturality, different from what they are used to in their home environment. Training of agents already includes a part of social orientation. You indicated last year that you wanted to optimize the quality of the training. Have changes been made to the social orientation section? If so, which one? If not, do you intend to make changes to this as a result of the incidents in various corpses over the past few months, which are of course still under investigation? Is attention given to this problem even after training? Do agents, for example, receive further training on relevant social problems during their careers? What will you do to reverse the image damage that some police forces caused by these incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u43	Mr President, it just so happens that two members of the same group are asking a question on the subject. As you can see, we are very concerned. Normally, the other groups were also present, but in the meantime they may find this less relevant. Minister, last weekend there were reports of the police in Mechelen. There was a very extensive reportage in the Gazette of Antwerp, which you have certainly read. Mr Demon mentioned the situation in Brussels and Ghent, and the problem of racism in the police force is also real in my city of Antwerp. I am certainly not saying that the entire Antwerp police force would be racist. I didn't say that. I did not say that a significant part of the police would be racist, but I do say that there is a problem of racism among a limited group of police officers in the corps. However, it is not because it is about a limited group that can't screw things up, or that it's not an important problem, that needs to be addressed. It is a day-to-day reality and this has been confirmed in the report of the P Committee, which appeared in the media on 25 April. It is clear from the report that agents are guilty of racist behaviour or statements, and that they are little or no contact with them by their colleagues. There's some kind of duty of silence. When police officers do turn to their superiors and perpetrators, they are often treated as victims. The report shows that even the Internal Supervisory Service is part of the problem. The examination of the P Committee has focused specifically on the Antwerp corps, but I believe that the circumstances apply to other corps as well. That also turns out to be after last weekend with the fuss in Mechelen. People testified that the situation in Mechelen may be even worse than in Antwerp. What lessons can be drawn from the study? What practices can be applied to police forces to better deal with diversity and diversity in the corps? How do we tackle racism and discrimination? However, it must not be limited to this. One has to go one step further. The diversity, which is a reality in society, must also be reflected in the police force. In Antwerp, 42% of the population is of various origin. Often residents are born and raised here, but still they have a different origin. It makes sense for that to be reflected in the police force. We note, however, that this is not the case. At present, the diversity of the corps is only 7%. I am therefore very pleased that Commissioner Muyters is now presenting a diversity charter. That is a start; we cannot yet say that we are here, but it is certainly a first important step. I hope that he will succeed in turning the mentality, partly on the basis of that diversity charter, because that is really necessary. You have a role to play in this as a competent minister. How do you integrate that into the training of agents? There is also a need for continuous training of agents, because not only new agents need to learn how to deal with diversity. Those who are already in the police force must also be trained in a fun way, for example by bringing them into contact with those people and by making it clear that discrimination is not tolerated in any way. There must be zero tolerance to discrimination anyway. Do you intend to work effectively on this? How will you respond to the recommendations of the P Committee and implement them in all police forces, both in the federal police and in the various local corps?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u44	In the past, diversity in basic training has been addressed in module 5.4. Since the entry into force of the new basic training, diversity in cluster 12, social orientation, has been dealt with throughout the entire duration of basic training. The Diversity Cell of the Federal Police and Unia, the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre, coordinate a working group Cluster 12. The working group addresses the cluster managers and the teachers. The group aims to harmonise the cluster between police schools. In addition, an online toolbox was set up where teachers and cluster managers can collect and exchange information. This will make it possible to respond quickly to new themes and make the necessary teaching material available to the teachers. In April 2016, only recently, Unia made another offer to the various police schools to make its expertise available in the framework of basic training. Mrs Lanjri, the research report highlighted the following points of improvement: concrete measures on the prevention and control of racism and discrimination in the workplace; the role of executives in responding adequately to discrimination; increasing internal diversity through recruitment and increasing the willingness to report to ethnic and indigenous workers. The main operational orientation of the diversity premier service was also identified as one of the reasons why, in the view of the P Committee, there were still too few concrete policy initiatives. In the meantime, several initiatives have already been taken in this area in Antwerp. The integrated diversity policy was described in the diversity policy paper, with the key message: "Everyone else, always of service." I will give you the most important lines. A pilot project is currently under way in the Antwerp police force in collaboration with the city services to invest locally in their own recruitment campaign among minorities. The intention is to get a better, representative reflection of the population within the Antwerp police force. The initiative has been very welcomed. I asked for a formal evaluation of the pilot project after six months. As I have already explained here, the pilot project is about two years from now. The first evaluation will be carried out before the holiday. In the event of a positive evaluation, a number of other cities can be added to the pilot project. I have received questions from Mechelen, Ghent, a number of Brussels areas and from Charleroi to introduce the project with them, provided that a positive evaluation is carried out. The first indications I get from Antwerp are certainly positive. Especially in the places where the problem of diversity arises, I think the local areas are best placed to recruit from the community, for example through their own communication channels. With a national campaign, the intended candidates are achieved far less adequately. Furthermore, I would remind you that every local police chief is responsible for ensuring compliance with the standards and values in his own corps. This is the consequence of a police landscape with 190 employers, of which 1 employer is the federal police and 189 employers the local zones. Respect for diversity is an integral part of this. Large corps often have their own diversity cell in that respect. At the end of 2015, the Federal Police Commissioner General developed a new diversity policy in collaboration with the Federal Police Cell Diversity. The Diversity Cell works closely with Unia to develop and shape that policy in practice. The Federal Police have an internal Department of Prevention and Protection at Work, which is responsible for the well-being of all staff. In order to promote diversity and fight against all forms of discrimination and racism, the federal police developed a new policy of diversity by the end of 2015. This policy is based on four pillars: firstly, increasing knowledge and skills; secondly, diversity as a common thread throughout all human resources processes; thirdly, communicating with respect for diversity; fourthly, strict compliance with anti-racism and anti-discrimination legislation. As a result of the new diversity policy of the federal police, there has also been a fundamental change in the supply of training. Anyone who wishes to receive training in the matter of diversity must first follow the basic module. This includes legislation on anti-racism and anti-discrimination. Specific modules are then proposed according to the job that one has in the organisation. The new trainings have been proposed by the Federal Police cell Diversity, as I said in collaboration with Unia. On top of the offer of permanent training, Unia also offers its expertise to all units of the integrated police who so wish. I can tell you that many police zones follow such a route that is adapted to their needs. It is clear that a rural police zone far from a major city in this area has different needs than, for example, a metropolitan police zone. Since 2014, all members of the integrated police force have also been able to participate in the training of Holocaust and Police and Human Rights. That training is given at the Dossin barracks. The aim of this training is to give rise to a critical reflection on the attitude of police officers in the performance of their jobs. The first evaluation report of the project shows that in order to have a maximum impact on all levels of the police organisation, it is essential that the project is not separated from other aspects related to the primary processes, the primary processes are mainly the basic functions of the police service and with human resources. Through the provision of training, additional responsibilities are systematically faced by managers to guide employees in the field of professional and integrity on the one hand, but on the other hand, to manage situations in such a way that cross-border behaviour is avoided as much as possible. To meet this, a new training module for managers of the middle and officer framework is provided and an overview of possible actions and practices is provided on the police floor. Diversity and integrity are key issues for the Federal Police Executive Committee, for the local police permanent committee and for all police forces. Where infringements of deontology and of legal requirements are detected, appropriate action shall be taken by the competent authorities. The way in which the recent events to which reference was made are an example of this. It should not be forgotten that every member of the staff of the integrated police is an ambassador for the good image of the police. Each member of staff shall have an exemplary role and contribute to the image of the whole organisation. Everyone must contribute and take their responsibility. Leaders should set a good example. In the case of dysfunctions, they must respond appropriately and adjust where necessary. Proactively, diversity and integrity are discussed during events such as the Police Village following, among others, 21 July, recruitment events, open-door days of police schools. In its internal and external communication strategy, the federal police pays attention to diversity and deontology. In September 2016, Kazerne Dossin organizes an international conference on Connecting Law and Memory, in collaboration with the federal police, with the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, the Council of Europe and Unia. This project involves the organisation of a three-day international congress in 2016 that connects knowledge and expertise of human rights education at both Holocaust museums and memorials as well as in civil services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u45	Thank you for your detailed answer. Our colleague already referred to the diversity charter signed by the Antwerp Chief of Staff and the mayor. Perhaps it is an idea to set up a charter and have it signed by the corps to actually commit themselves to tackling problems in this area and its consequences such as image damage. For me, it is not entirely clear which form or form is required and which is not. I understand that in one case or another it was a choice? Those who would certainly benefit from such a formation may not make the choice to follow them. Should not consideration be given to making certain reproduction elements mandatory, so that diversity ambassadors join the police. I invite you to take the idea of such a charter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u46	For the sake of clarity, the training can be chosen voluntarily by people, but can also be required by hierarchical superiors. It remains the employer's responsibility to see where remedial action should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u47	It is true that diversity policy needs to be pursued, especially as our society is becoming increasingly diverse. The fact that some corps like Antwerp have the opportunity to recruit locally is a good thing. This will undoubtedly help us move forward a number of steps. There is another problem, though. There is recruitment policy and retention policy. Many candidates can be recruited and convinced to take the step without lowering the bar. However, as a result of the events in Mechelen, we now see that young agents are not holding up, because they are being bullied away or have to deal with racist comments. An effort is therefore also needed in the area of retention policy by introducing a zero tolerance against discrimination in the corps. The wide range of proposals for the new diversity policy is brilliant. But it's all pretty noncommittal. It is a choice whether one agrees or not. The course is included in basic training, but I think it is wrong that agents who have been on the Antwerp and Mechelen police force for ten to twenty years need such a course, because apparently they do not know how to deal with diversity, can choose whether or not to follow it. The supervisor can also impose the course. Unless you mean that, Minister, I would suggest that it should be compulsory, or rather self-evident, for managers and police officers from central cities where there is a great deal of diversity to take the course effectively. That makes sense. Thus the supervisor can also pass that on to his subordinates. It is good that the course is included in basic training, but there is still work to be done for those who have not had such basic training and who really need it. If the supervisor decides that the course should be followed, it is considered punishment. That cannot be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u48	The responsibility of a manager is not just to pass penalties. One also needs to appeal a little to professionalism and skill. If a leader in a police force of a zone where there is a lot of diversity finds that a lot of his agents cannot handle it, then common sense learns that they will take initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u49	We share the same view in this regard. We both think that this is only logical and that it is common sense that policemen take courses. May I assume that the corps of Antwerp, Mechelen and Ghent will soon receive these trainings? It doesn't have to be mandatory for me, as long as they follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u50	It is the chiefs of the police of Antwerp, Mechelen and Ghent, who will have to take initiative. We make an offer, they are the employers, we make the offer, we insist, we say that those courses are there and they are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u51	You have a beautiful product, but it's in a glass box and if no one grabs it, we're left with a beautiful product.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u52	It's not in a glass box. It's being used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u53	We must ensure that the leader, the chief of police, does so effectively and logically respond to the training offer. Perhaps you, as a minister, can say that you think it is logical that it should be offered effectively to the corps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I have watched the TV news at 1:00 p.m. of the RTBF and I have already had virtually the answers to the questions I am going to ask you on the ASTRID network. The commission of inquiry heard the head of the network this morning, and I have already read about the Belga dispatch that has just been released, which mentions that 8,000 attempts to communicate via the ASTRID network among 34,000 attempts would have failed on the day of the attacks. As we all know, on the day of the attacks, there was a saturation of the Belgacom network and other gsm networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u55	Except Base because they denied the delisting standards imposed on Brussels. On that day, Base said, "We don't care about standards." That's why Alexander De Croo is seeing, if in specific circumstances,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u56	I didn't know. He's seeing if we can agree to increase the power of antennas. We heard this morning that the leader of the ASTRID network had not been officially warned of the attacks, without any impact because we were all warned through the press very quickly. However, care should be taken to ensure that this does not happen again. We can also hope that nothing happens again. Returning to the ASTRID network, testimony indicates that WhatsApp has been used to communicate with police officers. It's still pretty crazy. Minister, do you have any new, additional elements that could have added value to the information I heard in the news? Do you confirm the deficiencies that have been observed? Was it possible to identify the causes? Have you since considered measures to address the weaknesses identified, so that such a situation does not occur again in the event of a new crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u57	Mr Thiébaut, on 22 March, the ASTRID network was used by its users in an intense and never encountered way, with five to eight times normal use on some masts. This was due to a number of factors: incidents at several nearby sites, failure of public mobile networks which led to a postponement of communications, etc. First of all, I would like to stress that the network has remained fully operational. He did not experience any interruption of service. During the day of 22 March and without entering into too technical elements, the vast majority of traffic concentrated on 6 masts, out of a total of 600. The following figures were observed: 4,305 radios, 579 communications groups, 35,153 group communications and 21,142 minutes of conversation. 76% of the calls made were transmitted through the network. 22% of calls could not be completed. This situation is mainly due to the fact that the users themselves interrupted the communication by releasing the PTT button (push to talk) and thus lost their place in the queue, given the concentration of traffic on a few masts. As soon as the events took place, the public limited company ASTRID worked on the analysis of the situation and worked with the user advisory committee to assess the situation and propose together with the users an evaluation and ways of improving it. Two areas of improvement have been identified: a technical axis and a human axis. For the first, it's about building capacity in large cities and critical points with real-time network monitoring. For the human axis, the training of staff, intervention services, a reminder of the procedures for the use of Fleetmappings (the choice of communication groups) and improved procedures for exchanges between SA ASTRID and the authorities will be strengthened. Some of these actions are already under way or will be launched in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u58	I already had about the same explanation. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the locksmith associations in our country have long been calling for recognition of their profession as a safety profession. It is true that people often have to call on a locksmith at a very inconvenient time, such as at night or at weekends, because they can no longer enter their homes. At that time, we have no idea who will present themselves as locksmiths, what confidence one can have in that person and what the possible rates associated with that assignment are. Several television reports have also shown that there are a lot of unsavory practices in the sector. Sometimes very expensive tariffs are asked or travel costs that the consumer cannot refuse, given the emergency situation in which he is in. Do you like the recognition of locksmiths and regulation of the sector? If so, do you provide for a possibility under the Private Security Act? Will you provide for this when updating the law on private security that you have already announced? Or do you see another piste to regulate this legally? Which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u60	Mr President, Mr Demon, it is true that locksmiths carry out certain activities which can be regarded as security activities. Not all of their activities are covered. We are indeed rewriting the law of 10 April 1990 on private and special security. In doing so, we take into account the situation of locksmiths. Some of their activities will therefore be incorporated into that new law. The bill is currently under discussion in the government. I will be able to explain this in greater detail as soon as the draft law comes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u61	Is that answer sufficient, Mr Demon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u62	It is enough, Mr President,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the Protocol 235a of the negotiating committee for police forces provided for the government to introduce the concept of functional remuneration. The government agreement states that the number of allowances and allowances will be simplified within a closed envelope and will evolve into a modern and functional remuneration scheme. The police must be given a modern staff status with functional remuneration rather than a proliferation of fees, allowances and premiums. The current system of fees is too complex, too opaque, the allocation is not uniform and too sensitive to abuses. Our party has long been asking for the introduction of a functional remuneration. As you will be aware, the Statute also makes certain functions very difficult to fill. Think about the chief of police, for example. You replied a year ago in this committee that the task force set up under the previous government had not come together for more than a year. The Working Group drew up a general quantitative picture of the extent of all allowances and allowances. The social secretariat of the integrated police was asked to keep this data up-to-date. After the summer of last year, you wanted to start the functional remuneration, so that the debate could be held in the Chamber at the end of 2015 or early 2016. Since that timing is now over, I have the following questions, Minister. What is the current state of play on the functional remuneration file? What's the new timing? What does the general figure look like? What does the further process of implementation look like? A new working group was set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, some preparatory work has indeed been done on functional remuneration, but in view of other priorities, I am thinking here of the threat of terrorism, the police's pension file and the key tasks debate, the planning had to be adjusted. This also explains that in the letter of order to the Director-General of Resources Management and Information of the Federal Police, which I recently approved, I registered that task for 2017. As far as your second question is concerned, I can provide you with the preliminary list of allowances and allowances. Functional remuneration includes a system of remuneration tailored to the function performed and which is simpler in composition than the current multitude of allowances and allowances, i.e. somewhat selective and differentiated and rather barema-oriented, but without relapsed into compartmentalized multitude. This is a very complex exercise. The experience since 2007 on the weighting of the functions of Level A of the administrative and logistics framework in the police services shows this. The Director-General, the DGR, will, of course, continue this dossier, in consultation with local police representatives, where concepts are already being prepared, including with regard to mandate holders. Apart from the task force, there are already conceptual debates in progress that will be usefully fueled and used as input later on. You asked about the timing, and that's a logical question. However, the debate will be very difficult because we have to do this, and you have mentioned the coalition agreement, with a closed envelope. That is to say, if one were to give someone something, one would take it away from another, and that is never an easy debate. Rationalisation insists, especially in view of the multitude of premiums and allowances, but I am fully aware that asking the question is very easy, but that putting it into practice has a different degree of difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u65	Minister, I understand that timing is not always obvious and I am glad that we are already getting the table. The exercise is indeed complex, but I hope, together with you, that we will be able to achieve results on this dossier in this legislative period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u66	Minister, we discussed this last week in plenary. The federal police are responsible for the organisation of an arrondissement communication and information centre. For the province of Oost-Vlaanderen this assignment is carried out by the Communication and Information Centre Oost-Vlaanderen, the CIC OV, where the dispatching is divided between three conversation groups, Dendermonde, Ghent and Oudenaarde, and three support groups per 12-hour shift. On 14, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 23 March the discussion group Oudenaarde and the support group SP11 were not manned by lack of staff. The police zones normally divided into the conversation group Oudenaarde were asked to switch to the conversation group Dendermonde or Ghent. As a result, the workload of the operators of the CIC OV increased and the intervention teams on the site were less quickly operated. The support group, intended for non-urgent interventions, e.g. the channel used by the district inspectors or for police operations, was not even served at all, while one of the starting points at the start of the integrated police was the guarantee of a minimum level of service for governments and citizens. In addition, the lack of staff creates an unsafe situation for citizens and employees on the ground. There is a real risk that a citizen in need will not be helped quickly enough, hence the following questions. Are you aware of the problems within the CIC OV? If so, what measures do you intend to take to solve the problems in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u67	To your first question, I could simply answer 'yes'. I am aware of the problem you outlined in the CIC East Flanders. In the last two weeks I received several letters from East Flemish police zones, in which they included the problem of the CIC OV. In recent months, together with the government and the police, I have made a great deal of efforts to find more adequate solutions to the personnel problems in the operational services of the police, in particular in those services that ensure police core tasks. The CIC OV is one of them. These solutions are accompanied not only by the provision of additional staff resources and the reorientation of staff resources, but also by the optimisation of the functioning of the police. I'll come back to that later. The CIC OV is manned by both federal and local policemen. Like a number of other federal police entities, the CIC OV has a deficit. The exceptional measure applied during the nights of the six days mentioned was decided by the Head of Service of the CIC OV. It is responsible for the operational operation. The measure was implemented because the CIC OV was faced with an important and above average number of sick staff at the top of its deficit during that period. As far as the specific situation in East Flanders is concerned, of the relations which should have been completed, there has been a gross reduction of 72%. As I have explained here on several occasions, I am working with my fellow officers and the police on more structural solutions to deal with staff shortages in the police. In the very short term and specifically with regard to the CIC OV, a recruitment path has been drawn up in consultation with the trade unions which can be expected to have a workable effect again within the year. In order to close the deficits with the federal police, 8 additional staff were provided. In this context, the first selection tests were carried out at the beginning of April. In anticipation of this, however, 8 people from the CIK have already been deployed. I've temporarily deployed 8 people and we're recruiting eight to withdraw them. This year, through a KB, I want to determine the detailed rules regarding the operation and crew of the SICAD. That stands for service, information and communication arrondissementsdienst. That means we're gonna replace the CIC with the SICAD. A data intersection is also included. You may know that in the context of the optimisation of the federal police, the former CICs and the arrondissemental information intersections are merged into one entity, that is the new SICAD. At present, the Co-ordination Committee of the Integrated Police Services is preparing a proposal to serve as a basis for the design of KB with regard to the operation and crew of these SICAD debt instruments. As the GPI model puts it, a workable relationship between local and federal policemen is foreseen here. I cannot anticipate the content of this proposal, but I would like it to be adopted this year. In the short term, therefore, we want to develop the SICAD's into real real-time intelligence centres where the collected information can be exploited immediately and strengthen the information position of our people on the ground so that our police teams' red tape and security can be increased and the deployment of police capacity in operations and investigations can be more targeted and effective. This project is closely in line with the modernisation of operational ICT, e-police and the ANPR network that will be deployed from this year on. So I've got to get these SICAD guys together, 'cause that's where the hits from ANPR come in. So that's all connected. Additional funds are also provided under the interdepartmental commission. The resources we make available for the camera network are not only for the camera dressings but also for the reinforcement of the SICAD dressings as regards staff. As a result, the budget was made available for the recruitment of 200 additional staff, not only for East Flanders but for all SICAD debt holders. Those recruited 200 staff members will be trained during the next session in autumn 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I understand that this is indeed a core task. You have also explained your long-term plans, for which I thank you. I understand that in the short term you will also provide for those 8 employees, which has solved the problem at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 1180 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u70	Mr President, Minister, since the partial reopening of Brussels Airport following the attacks of 22 March 2016, a pre-check-in area has been installed outside the airport so that passengers are checked before entering the buildings where the baggage is checked. In the weeks following the attacks, this upstream control resulted in important lines that could last several hours. Many passengers also missed their flight because of these lines. But, more importantly, these gatherings were potential targets that were much more visible and concentrated than the situation in the airport lobby prior to the attacks. We were able to see this by visiting the airport on Friday, 22 April 2016, with the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. We went through the lines and the crowd outside was quite impressive. Furthermore, the President of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), Tony Tyler, was also critical on Tuesday, 26 April 2016, when he was in Brussels, as he himself had to wait many hours. He even added that this system was binding on passengers and put them at risk, given the concentration of people it represented. Finally, the CEO of Brussels Airport also told us, on 22 April 2016, during the visit of the commission of inquiry, that, for him too, this situation caused many disadvantages but that he had to comply with the instructions he received from the police forces. Minister, what analysis do you make of this pre-registration system at the level of the police services and the interior office? Since the beginning of May, the situation has changed. As you announced, controls are no longer systematic for all passengers. Among the solutions envisaged are the positive profiling technique which would have been inspired by the practices in progress at the Ben Gurion airport in Tel Aviv and which seems to hold the rope. This technique involves allowing passengers who clearly do not have the profile of terrorists, such as families with children who are obviously leaving for vacations, for example, by controlling only the residual part of the passengers. The drifts of this type of method, "facial" control and targeting of specific ethnic profiles, are also regularly denounced. Minister, do you confirm the use of this technique at the Zaventem airport in the coming weeks because there is now an almost complete reopening of the airport? If this technique is used, what measures will be put in place to avoid falling into a drift of systematically controlling certain ethnic profiles rather than others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u71	Colleagues, I think this is the fourth time I have answered the same kind of questions. All right! Here are some elements. At first, we had the choice: first, we found an agreement with the police unions for the rapid reopening of the airport – we were talking about the opening of the airport at a capacity of 20%, very soon after the attacks. We would then respect the demands of the unions after their experience on March 22. They insisted on measures that, under normal circumstances, we would never have taken. We have had a lot of empathy for the demands of the unions and we have implemented these measures. It worked at first. We only experienced problems for one and a half days, when the airport reopened to 80% capacity on Mondays and Tuesdays before noon. You're quite right, but I don't think that's the big problem at our airport. We solved this quite quickly; people saw the chaos that it caused and they were much more open to other solutions. The solution that has been implemented since Wednesday morning, given that we had reopened on Sundays, is not ethno profiling at all. Not at all, not even profiling. The problems of chaos are solved; everyone agrees. Today, people go through pre-screening very quickly and the problems are solved. The police therefore make a selection of the people who have to go through the pre-screening. This means checking their identity card, checking their ticket and checking their luggage. There are three control elements. First, the suspicious behavior; it's pretty clear. Secondly, the professionalism and experience of the security services. Finally at random, which means that everyone has the opportunity to be designated for thorough control, but we are not going to control everyone anymore. It's not about ethno profiling or profiling. Controls are carried out at random and in the light of suspicious behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have taken note of the three points that you give me about your new methods and that partial selections of the people to be checked will be made. Are you inspired by specific examples abroad? What are the trainings and coachings that have led to this type of process? We're talking about several sources. I have quoted the Israeli sources, which you have drawn from. I don't know if you can comment on this now, otherwise I will formulate a new question in order to know what training or sources you have used to implement this new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u74	I'll ask you a new question! It will be interesting to evaluate the procedure, probably in a few months. As far as the selection at random is concerned, I also wonder how this is going in practice. I will also ask you a further oral question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u75	Mr Minister, my question concerns a number of gaps in current camera legislation, which prevent the optimum use of cameras to detect traffic offences. First of all, since the 2011 Camera Act, no offenders can be filmed from anonymous cars because secret use of cameras is not allowed. However, the devices are purchased and available. Many agents also received special training to use the ProVida system. Secondly, another problem is the use of dashcams. In early April, you announced that the police will be able to use dashcams in the future. On 9 March last, the correctional court of Leuven, as one of the first, accepted images of a private person's dashcam as legitimate evidence. Thirdly, there are questions to be able to use existing cameras in public places to identify traffic offences. Now one can only use these images for information purposes. Minister, what changes to camera legislation are you working on? To what extent will the problems I have just outlined be resolved? How many ProVida cameras were purchased at the time? Through which zones? For what amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u76	A change to the Camera Act is indeed in preparation. As I have already announced, with regard to the use of the cameras by the police forces, it is intended to remove the surveillance cameras of the police forces from the Camera Act and to include them in the law on the police office. The aim is to draw up a technologically neutral legislation that will remain valid for any existing or future technology, so that, so to speak, a legislative change is not immediately required if a new technology comes onto the market. This will make it possible for police forces to use the most appropriate technologies to carry out their tasks as efficiently as possible. As far as timing is concerned, the intention is to amend the Camera Act before the end of 2016 and also to have it adopted by Parliament. I hope to present the Camera Act to the government before the summer so that we can get the timing and get the law through Parliament this year. As far as road traffic offences are concerned, it is important to bear in mind that other legislation is applicable. It concerns Article 62 of the law on police on road traffic. This is still there, in conjunction with the law on privacy protection and Articles 44/1 et seq. of the Police Office Act, as for any processing of personal data by the police. That provision regulates the way in which traffic offences are identified. It states that the determinations based on material evidence provided by manned automatically operated aircraft shall have probative force as long as the contrary is not proven, in the case of violations of the law on road traffic police and its implementing decisions. In the case of unmanned automatic appliances, the findings are evidence to the contrary, in the case of infringements mentioned in the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002. Failure to comply with the maximum authorised speed shall be one of the offences referred to in that Royal Decree. The devices referred to in Article 62 may be surveillance camera dynamometers and shall only be subject to a type approval in the cases where those devices carry out measurements. As for your second question, for the local police, the Permanent Commission of the Local Police has no knowledge of whether such devices were purchased. The federal police bought nine aircraft, for a total price, including the purchase, installation and accreditation, of 11 779.35 euros each. Those devices are not currently being used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u77	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u78	Minister, a while ago you announced that you, together with your colleague from the Justice Department, would change the law on police duty so that policemen could also patrol the Internet, so that you could visit, study and make copies of websites. This could be done anonymously, under a pseudonym, as ordinary citizens do. It's similar to policemen who sometimes patrol in civilians. According to the current law, this is now soon regarded as undercover work, for which a investigating judge is required and strict conditions apply. In the debate I also mention the voice of Philippe Van Linthout, president of the association of investigators and specialist in cybercrime, who stated in the press for some time that he does not think that infiltration is possible, if there is lasting contact with a false identity, or provocation, because, for example, a name is used that lures paedophiles. Now there are no rules and it's the wild west. Meanwhile, the Privacy Commission gave a favourable opinion on the change of law, but also set some limits: Minister, what is the state of play in the legislative amendment that has been announced? Will the opinions of the Privacy Commission be taken into account? That will probably be the case. Do you have any information on the number of violations of the current law by police officers in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u79	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the presence of police services on the Internet is already permitted under current legislation. Because the law describes the jurisdiction in general terms, it was our intention to specify them for patrol on the internet. In this way, we want to offer the services more comfort in the performance of their tasks. However, the advice of the Privacy Commission on the initial draft law did not take sufficient account of the administrative finality of patrolling the Internet and would affect police work. With the new law that we had proposed and the restriction imposed by the Privacy Commission, the police would have fewer weapons than they do now. So we have opted to choose the current legal situation over a legislative amendment. The police are patrolling today. I set up the Internet Referral Unit at the beginning of this year, so there are now continuous patrols by the police on the Internet, in accordance with current legislation. As far as infringements of the law are concerned, I must refer you to Mr Geens, who has the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u81	Minister, in the port of Antwerp, the security task of the military has been partially taken over by drones for several weeks. This is the first time that the army has deployed drones in the fight against terror on its own soil. Until now, they have been used mainly for exploration missions abroad or for the detection of environmental pollution off the Belgian coast. The drones have a range of about 100 kilometers and can fly both during the day and at night. The port of Antwerp, which is about 130 square kilometres in total, normally requires 140 men to keep an eye on everything. Since the drones were deployed, the same can be done with only 30 soldiers. With the drones, the army will take care of the observations from the command post on the military domain of Brasschaat. The federal police have to analyze everything and decide when and how to intervene. Have the footage worked out in the last few weeks? How many drones are currently deployed above the port of Antwerp? At the port of Antwerp, 140 soldiers need no less than 110. Isn't the use of drones a solution for the surveillance of various other locations in our country? The private sector is also active in the field of surveillance in the port of Antwerp. The sector also has drones. How do you feel about working with the private sector so that the military's drones can be deployed elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u82	Mrs Gabriels, at the moment there is one drone active in the port of Antwerp. Based on the images provided, the Antwerp shipping police were sent out five times for an intervention, resulting in the preparation of two information reports on suspicious acts. The use of drones for surveillance assignments is an interesting slope, which should be further investigated. It's a first experiment. You just pointed out the benefits. In practice, it turns out that it is. We therefore await the first evaluation of the drone's deployment above the port of Antwerp. The use of drones by private companies over the port area is currently prohibited by law. It is clear that the private monitoring sector has always had a great deal of interest in new technologies that can be used in the execution of surveillance orders, possibly in support of the government. In the context of the amendment of the Private Security Act, it will therefore be considered how drones can be used in practice, including by the private security sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u83	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u84	Mr Minister, our police council is, quite frankly, waiting for the answer to this question. We want to introduce a combitaks. The municipalities and the federal government together contribute to the means by which the zonal police have seven basic tasks to perform, namely reception, intervention, community service, victim care, detectives, public order, and since 2009 also traffic. In addition, various private initiatives sometimes make a special effort, which costs money and adds to the tasks of the police. That is when, in these times of terror, services are already under pressure. A number of zones and municipalities therefore charge a fee by regulation for tasks of administrative police. It is a compensation for services relating to the specific and direct interest of a private individual. This can also be done on the basis of Article 90 of the law on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels. That article provides literally: "The City Council or the Police Council may adopt rules on the collection of compensation for tasks of administrative police. The King shall determine by decision of the Council of Ministers the conditions and detailed rules for this collection. However, the above decision has not yet been taken. It remains unclear, especially in multi-municipal police zones, what can or cannot be done. You have already indicated that you wish to make an overall assessment of the division of tasks between the police and the organizer. I come to my questions. What was the outcome of the overall evaluation of the division of labour between police and organizer? Can multi-municipal police zones legally apply for compensation for tasks of administrative police at this time by means of a regulation? If so, who are the revenues from this tax? Should each individual city council approve the tax regulations, or should the police council approve it when it comes to police performance? If not, how do you view the numerous zones and municipalities which have already adopted such regulations? Are you working on an implementing decision for Article 90? If so, within what time limit can this be expected? Do you have any idea what the assignments will be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, in the current state of the law, there is indeed a contradiction as to the extent to which multi-municipal zones can adopt rules for the collection of administrative police orders under Article 90 of the law on the organisation of the integrated police without having an implementing decision. In the circumstances, therefore, it is not for me to judge the police areas which have adopted such a regulation. However, I can say that the situation is more transparent for the single-municipal zones, as it remains convinced that the municipal decisions taken prior to 1 January 2002 can be further implemented under Article 223a of the new municipal law. In the past, moreover, it has been suggested that the Royal Decree of 14 September 1997, adopted at the time in implementation of Article 23a of the new Municipal Law, now repealed by the Integrated Police Act and re-established in Article 90 of the Integrated Police Act, remains legally in force pending the adoption of the future draft Royal Decree. I can also tell you that this division of tasks has been addressed in the context of the key tasks debate, but that this issue has not yet been fully resolved. The discussion with the local police is still ongoing, so I cannot say anything about that. We know that there is a problem and we are discussing with the local police in what direction we can make it evolve, but I cannot give more details at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u86	Minister, I fully understand that more municipal areas are not yet able to take a legal decision and that we should wait until further steps are taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u87	Mr President, Minister, on Thursday 21 April the European Justice, Home Affairs and Asylum Ministers sat together in Luxembourg on Muslim terror and the refugee crisis. In the margins of that meeting, the G11 came together, with you as chairman. During this consultation, it was decided to set up a working group to find out how Member States can cooperate more closely on the exchange of information between security services, an important issue in the fight against terrorism. By the beginning of the summer, the working group will have to have its report ready and hope for a breakthrough. In June, Europe will have to decide whether to increase the exchange of information. The aim is to draw up, through the G11, a proposal that the other 17 Member States cannot ignore. Due to the fear of revealing confidential information and sources or of damaging ongoing investigations, EU Member States have not been keen on more data exchange in the past. According to your spokesperson, to circumvent privacy concerns, locks are needed so that the information does not fall into the wrong hands. In addition, he makes the comparison that the Belgian information database contains a package leaflet of dozens of pages containing who can and who cannot look in files. If there is a comparable European database, the package leaflet will have hundreds of pages. It is up to the working group to work this out now. That's not an obvious assignment. Does the G11 envisage a European database similar to the Belgian one? You stated that if we succeed in convincing the other Member States of more exchange of information in June, we will be ahead of more than five light years. Could you clarify this briefly? When will this working group take off? Is it realistic to have an effective proposal in just over a month's time to convince the other Member States of this exchange of information and its need?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u88	Mrs Gabriels, we are not thinking of a new European database, but of stepping up the exchange of information through existing systems and databases such as the Schengen Information System, the Prüm framework, the Europol information system and the Focal Point Travellers. Europol, too. The intention is to share all relevant terrorist information through these systems and databases. In addition, the G11 also wants to play a leading role in putting the PNR Directive into practice as soon as possible. I have to tell you that the exchange of data has already improved in the last year, but much remains to be done. The European counter-terrorism coordinator Gilles de Kerchove presented figures at the Justice and Home Affairs Council in April. This shows that implementation by Member States is still not at the desired level, despite repeated calls at political level to strengthen the exchange of information and to make maximum use of European instruments. There is now a programme on the table with concrete actions, responsible actors and a timing to identify the data exchange. If we succeed in getting this programme ratified at the June Council, a major step forward will therefore be taken effectively. I have to say, all the praise here to the Dutch Presidency that really does a call to action there. As long as I am in the Council, there has been a lot of talk about this, and I have to tell the Dutch that they are really doing a call to action right now. The working group we are discussing came together on 2 May last in Amsterdam to examine the action programme. The result will be discussed with all EU Member States on 17 May in the COSI, the Standing Committee on Operational Cooperation in the field of Internal Security. So that was yesterday. Finally, the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 9 and 10 June should endorse the action programme. This timing is indeed ambitious, but as far as I am concerned it is quite feasible. We are also going to put our shoulders on it so that this can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u89	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u90	Minister, you know that I am preparing a bill to amend the football law. Over the last few months, I have spoken to several football clubs and police officers who have pointed out to me the problem of controlling people with stadium bans. In the event of a violation of the football law, the Football Cell may impose a stadium ban and, if the KB is fully in order, also a perimeter ban. An administrative notification obligation may also be imposed. I asked my question immediately after the last games of second class. After the match Antwerp-Eupen there were violent riots because of the unexpected result for the Antwerp-supporters. Both on the Bosuil and in the streets of Deurne Antwerp fans confronted the police. 13 police combi were damaged, a police combi was set on fire and a bus booth destroyed. To the media, Robert Vinck, president of the Antwerp supporters' associations, stated that there were several English and Dutch supporters present at the Antwerp supporters. I don't know if those were really supporters of Antwerp. Last year, 1 169 people were banned from the stadium because of the FPS Home Office Football Cell. Of the 72 Antwerp supporters with a stadium ban several would have been present at the game, so in the stadium. Antwerp FC would explore the possibilities to write out life-long stadium bans following the violence, field trespassing and throwing objects on the field. I think that is a bit of an operetta legislation, because stadium bans make little sense if they are not complied with and especially if they are not verifiable. Cathy Van den Berghe, director ad interim of the Football Cell of Home Affairs, has even stated to De Standaard that it is particularly difficult to exclude those hooligans from the stadium, despite the fact that they have a stadium ban, among other things because tickets are not always registered. That's not legally required either. There would also be quite a lot of tickets purchased in group, which would then be resold, among others to people with a stadium ban. Mrs van den Berghe also pointed out that the problem exists: stewards should not request the identity card. Legally, of course, that may be correct, but if no one is allowed to verify identity, then you must explain to me how the identity of people with a stadium ban can be traced. Do you not think that this legally correct measure will throw the child away with the bath water? There are several proposals for identification to be made at the entrance of the stadiums, but not by stewards. It could even be done electronically. There are also proposals to replace the notification obligation with a registration obligation with a residence obligation during the competition, coupled with random checks. Power may also be conferred on authorised persons to request identity cards at the entrance. Mr Minister, I have the following questions in response to these incidents, which were very striking, but which are not isolated facts. Firstly, is it true that on 30 April there were several people with a stadium ban in the stadium and in the perimeter of the Bosuil Stadium? Do you have an indication of the number of persons involved? Secondly, were the police and the security officer already aware of this during the game? What decisions were made then? Thirdly, how do you react now that you know that people with a stadium ban can be present in the stadium quite easily? Fourthly, what measures are you considering taking to prevent a repetition of similar facts in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u91	Mr Vermeulen, as a result of spotting, eleven names have at present been mentioned. The exploitation of the captured footage could reveal a number of infringements of Article 21 (1). It is also emphasised that a person with a stadium ban can be in the vicinity of the stadium without problems. The riots in Antwerp have mainly occurred around the stadium, where people with a stadium ban could also be pleasantly active. As for your second question, the spotted supporters with a stadium ban were noticed in the stadium's stands during the game. Those supporters, which are part of the risk core of the RAFC supporters, were embedded in the core. During the football matches several riots took place. The general atmosphere in the gallery concerned could be described as very agitated. It was therefore considered that an action against those excluded supporters at that time would be an important escalation factor. Therefore, police evidence collection and post-trialisation was opted for. Thirdly, the control and enforcement of the stadium bans is now based on the visual identification of the person, in particular initially by the stewards at the entrance of the stadium and then by the spotters. Spotters are civilian police officers who are specially trained to identify the behavior of the supporters, in violation of football law. The Football Act and the KB of 20 July 2005 establishing rules for ticket management on the occasion of football matches provide that the organizer of the meeting must take the necessary measures to prevent persons who are prohibited from entering the stadium. Fourthly, the sentence provided for also acts as a deterrent in the whole of the non-compliance with the stadium ban. Article 24 (2) of the Football Act provides for a minimum penalty of EUR 1 000 and a stadium ban of one year. If the services estimate that taking action at the stadium is too high a risk at the time, then it may be chosen to be reduced subsequently on the basis of the findings. Finally, the various partners involved, the police, the Football Cell, the Pro League and the Belgian Football Association are working together to strengthen and develop the control and enforcement of stadium bans. In any case, the punishment for violating the stadium bans will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and for confirming that several people were present. The atmosphere was already quite tense and even aggressive at the time. I understand that you cannot act at the moment, but perhaps the next opportunity had to be used to pick people out as quickly as possible. I understand it was difficult. I do not really like the fact that people with a stadium ban can enter the stadium and that the only control by visual identification is by stewards or spotters. I can still understand by scoffers. They're people who do that professionally. They know the risk supporters very well. You can't say that about stewards. They're volunteers. They are not always the most educated. In a stadium of 20 000 supporters, the few stewards can never tackle that problem. Other measures will be needed for this. The bill that's finished isn't about that. We had not finished that discussion at the time, but I assume that we will organise a consultation with Members of Parliament and stakeholders, the football association, the Pro League and the Home Office to see how much stricter measures can be taken to replace that obligation of notification by a registration obligation or by an electronic check or a system that works at least better than mere visual identification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 11286 will be converted into a written question. Mr Crusnière will come later. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 11306 was converted into a written question. Mr Nollet promised that he would return to this committee later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u94	Mr President, Minister, according to a recent report issued by the P Committee quoted in the press, two thirds of the 80,000 annual robberies committed in Belgium are not specifically monitored by the technical and scientific services of the Federal Police. It would appear that the best intervention rates are in Eupen (70% of the cases) and that the Brussels Region is the region at the bottom of the pack (24.3% of the flights reported). Of course, as the P Committee acknowledges, it would be foolish to envisage systematic passages of the scientific police, i.e. a 100 per cent coverage rate of burglaries, but the latter still advocates a 40 per cent rate. However, according to the report, this objective would be difficult to achieve due mainly to a shortage of qualified staff. Minister, I am aware that this human resources problem is not new and that, like other jobs that are in short supply, it is difficult to find the experts that your services need. Nevertheless, the situation on the ground calls for concrete solutions. Can you provide us with an update on the shortage of personnel in the technical and scientific services of the federal police? What measures have been adopted to facilitate the hiring of this type of staff and thus remedy all or part of the deficiencies? Is it planned to better target this type of profession in the context of the forthcoming information campaigns on recruitment into law enforcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u95	Mr Calomne, the training of federal police personnel is determined by the annex to the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015 laying down the distribution of federal police personnel. The distribution of the jobs taken up in this training of the personnel within the Federal Police Directorates and Services is determined in an internal regulation established after consultation with the Senior Advisory Committee by the Federal Police Steering Committee. There is therefore no organizational framework specific to the technical and scientific police established by royal decree, as was still the case before the police reform in 2001. For deconcentrated forensic service laboratories (DSPs), the following personnel framework, the TO3 component, has been established. They noted that these data do not take into account the subsequent unavailability of statutory leave or part-time work. Several jobs for technical and scientific police laboratories were opened in phase 4 of the internal mobility of the Federal Police as soon as the TO3 was set up. The procedures for the selection of candidates are currently being implemented throughout the country. In addition, other jobs for the basic framework have been opened in classical mobility (2016-02), notably for PTS laboratories in Limburg, Liège and Mons. Subject to budgetary agreements, a recruitment of some 40 senior lab inspectors, 17 of whom are already part of PTS labs, is planned in the second half of 2016. Training at the National Police Academy is scheduled to begin on 1 October 2016. Finally, a comprehensive specialized PTS lab training will also be implemented by the National Police Academy, as of October 2016, for new recruits arriving in PTS laboratories via mobility. The RDG, through the recruitment and selection department, initiated a working group with the DGJ. In terms of recruitment, more targeted recruitment is being undertaken in order to be more efficient in terms of selection times and to have tests more tailored to the needs of the organization in relation to the competencies of the candidates. With regard to the distribution by judicial district, the table has been provided to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u96	Minister, thank you for your relatively comprehensive and reassuring answers. I note that the problem is in the process of being resolved. This will still be the case during 2016, according to your information. I wanted to encourage you in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top 11381 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u98	Minister, you were very pleased last week with the fact that the latest Federal Police statistics show that the number of criminal offences fell from 729 438 to 664 910, a significant decrease of 8.8 %. As a reason for this, you indicated the threat of terror, which means that there are more soldiers and agents on the streets and the chance of being caught is greater. Due to the increased level of threat, the police have had to take internal action and certain ordinary police tasks have not been carried out for some time. For example, some municipalities need to involve private security agents because there is only one police patrol driving around overnight and that is not enough for the police areas in question. You yourself indicated that several cities and municipalities are using surveillance companies for different purposes. The crime figures of the Zottegem-Herzele-Sint-Lievens-Houtem police zone showed that 5 000 flash fines were issued less last year than the year before due to the terrorist threat. A large part of the year was specifically threatened by policemen. That's why inspectors weren't allowed out alone anymore. Flash checks are carried out by a single inspector with the flash car and that was no longer possible. Data on drug offences also decreased as a result of fewer controls. That's why I'm giving the next thought. Threat of terrorism is reducing crime, which we consider to be a little too short. After all, what we measure is not necessary no matter what happens. Is the fact that there is a decline in crime rates not due to the fact that there were fewer findings, as the focus was rightly on the fight against terror? It is in any case attentive to such statistics. Can you confirm that the local areas have not carried out a number of tasks as a result? What were the main tasks involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u99	Ms Gabriels, the publication of official police crime statistics for the first three quarters of 2015 saw a decrease in registered crime for the fourth consecutive year. On the other hand, an increase was observed prior to that evolution for three consecutive years, with 2011 as the highlight of the censuses, which have been carried out in accordance with the same methodology since 2000. Each evolution, both in a positive and negative sense, naturally requires the question of why. However, the answer to that question is very complex, not only because the concept of "crime of crime" in itself is already a container concept that includes, for example, theft, violence, damage, financial and economic crime as well as infringements of the environment and public health, but also because the explanation for crime is a multifactorial one, and one must be satisfied with the knowledge that an objectification of the various elements is often lacking. It also deals in police statistics with registered crime, which, for a more complete picture, should be supplemented by information on victimisation and reporting, the dark number. A clearly new factor in society last year, which is, however, different from previous years, is the threat of terrorism. It has effectively provided soldiers in the street scene and an increase in border controls and, consequently, the chance of being caught. There were also more police deployments at major events. However, the focus here was mainly on public peace and security. On the other hand, for example, non-armed agents were removed from the street for the sake of their personal safety. However, the calculation of the police deployment or possible shift in the field of action requires an additional in-depth analysis of capacity recording, which is currently not available at national level. What can already be said here is that the proportional share of the score crime, where registration is highly dependent on the efforts of the police, such as drugs, dummy marriage and money laundering, has remained proportionally equal in the whole of crime between 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The decline will indeed have a majority of causes. In any case, it is always better to note a decrease. I assume that the police zones have been less able to carry out certain tasks, given the threat of terror.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u101	Minister, on Tuesday evening 26 April you were present at the site of the Provincial Training Centre for Security Services in Zedelgem for the opening of the very first simulation house in our country. That's a nice project. The simulation house is primarily intended to provide the police school, police services and outsiders from inside and outside the province with contemporary, practical and realistic training and training facilities for tactical interventions and scenario training for the police. The house consists of two floors, an outbuilding and an outdoor space in which lifelike spaces are imitated. For example, a reception, a café, an apartment, a bank machine and a storeroom were built in the block. There are also functional spaces to train specific skills and tactical intervention techniques, such as a police cell and a Salduz interrogation room. Under the supervision of a total of 47 cameras, training agents can practice techniques and skills. Exercises can be filmed by the camera system, which allows feedback. Also sound and light can be perfectly controlled. In addition to police schools, other safety schools, such as fire and ambulance schools, could also be used for multidisciplinary exercises. Cooperation between emergency services is of the utmost importance in many emergency situations and can therefore be put at an advanced stage on that site. Finally, other target groups from the private and public security sectors could also benefit from such training. Mr Minister, can you clarify how you see the cooperation with the private surveillance sector? Which safety schools can actually go? What other target groups from the private and public security sectors will be able to train? Are there plans for joint exercises between the various emergency services on the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u102	Mrs Gabriels, the simulation house of the POV has indeed been developed for multidisciplinary education and training. This means that any discipline, police, fire department or emergency medical assistance, separately, can organise to a greater or lesser extent multidisciplinary activities, as well as multidisciplinary training or exercises. This is done on the basis of scenarios in which multiple disciplines practice together. In addition, we must not lose sight of the external security services. As an example, I mention De Lijn's security service, private surveillance, GAS officials and MUG teams. They can also use the simulation house. For police and urgent medical assistance, the simulation house is certainly both multidisciplinary and multidisciplinary. Tactical interventions by the police, interrogation, interfamilial violence, carbon monoxide, overdose drugs, working in confined spaces, cafés, problems or fights at a bus booth, evacuating a staircase, how to deal with aggression, the possibilities are endless, especially in the apartment of the simulation building. So there are a lot of multidisciplinary possibilities. D2 and D3 are often confronted with each other during real interventions. D2 is the police and D3 is the fire department. In our view, it is also an added value to know each other's abilities and possibilities. For example, can D3 intervene in a home situation in the event of a threat of suicide? How do we best approach potentially dangerous people as a team? How can D3 protect us when we have to perform a care in a café? What role can D3 have during interventions with MUGS? In terms of content, there are many possibilities, which add value for all parties. The added value of the simulation infrastructure is the ability to film and debrief the images. For the warm exercises or compressed air exercises of the fire school, the simulation house is less or not suitable. For that, of course, we have our specific infrastructure, such as the fire hall that was put into operation last year. What is possible is an evacuation exercise in case of fire in a café or certain search exercises in smoke or blindfolded search of victims, where the images can be used afterwards when debriefing. For firefighters, multidisciplinary scenarios may consist, for example, of amok in a café, accompanied by a fire with victims, where a rescue must be made of the residents of the apartment above the café. Soon, the different security services will be working together to identify the scenarios that can be organised together. I was confirmed that several exercises will be planned before the end of the year. However, it is not yet clear when and which. That planning is currently being prepared. As far as the private security sector is concerned, I can tell you that at the beginning of June there will be a meeting with the various representatives of the private security sector to discuss with them what is possible. After that, I can tell you more about it. The conclusion will probably be that the various private security organisations can rent the site and use it with their own instructors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u103	It is indeed a beautiful project. Mr President, perhaps with this committee we can visit more such projects instead of asking questions all afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u104	We'll definitely do that sometime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u105	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, four members of your party want, following the Antwerp approach against drugs throughout Flanders, to roll out a mess of drugs, because they believe that a firm drug policy, as in Antwerp, would bear fruit in the rest of Flanders. In concrete terms, they propose a 10-point action plan in a brochure. It says that they want to fight intensively against drugs and drug-related crime on all fronts. We also read in the brochure that the major drug crime has to be dealt with very hard and that a strict repressive approach would also have a deterrent effect. From 19 to 22 April 2016, the UN held another conference on drugs for the first time in 20 years. They did so at the request of three Latin American countries which believe that the war on drugs is a lost battle. Large-scale military operations, hundreds of thousands of deaths and billions of investments, despite the fact that drugs are still on the winning side. According to the Global Commission on Drug Policy, 100 billion dollars are spent on the drug war worldwide, without the desired result. The use of drugs is increasing and many new resources have been put on the market in recent years. The main effect of repressive policies is to push prices up. Apparently, the drug mafia has an annual turnover of an estimated $300 billion. The war on drugs is not a solution to the drug problem, experts say. On the contrary, he does more harm than good. Under pressure from the US, Latin American countries have sent the army to the streets, says Coletta Youngers from the Washington Office on Latin America research institute: "This has not led to less drug trafficking or use, but to a large increase in human rights violations." Minister, did Belgium take part in this UN conference? What position did we defend there? Would you like to roll out the Antwerp war on drugs all over the country? What is your position on the failure of the war on drugs? Again, that is the opinion of experts, not our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u106	Belgium was represented at the conference. The delegation consisted, inter alia, of the Permanent Representative to the UN in New York and its Deputy, the Permanent Representative to the UN in Vienna, two representatives of the FPS Public Health, a Representative of the FPS Justice and the National Coordinator on Drugs Policy, Mr Brice De Ruyver. Our country has stressed, among other things, that drugs are primarily a health problem. This is also the starting point of the framework paper on integrated security and the associated national security plan which will soon be disseminated. For your second question, I will stick to the coalition agreement. That's what matters are about. As far as your third question is concerned, the fight against drugs is a global approach. This is a triptych, consisting of prevention and curation but certainly also repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 11426 will be converted into a written question. Question No 11427 and interplation No Fourty-sixty-sixty-six of Mrs Pas are being postponed. Interpellation No. Mr Dallemagne's 149 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u109	Mr President, Minister, as President of the Hainaut-Est relief zone, I would like to ask you about the shortage of staff and the situation of volunteers in my area, as in other areas. Volunteers account for almost 40 per cent of the workforce. Only, there's not enough left. There has been a decline in the number of women, and the shortage of staff is particularly acute in rural areas. In question, the new measure, which limits the working time of volunteers to a maximum of 24 hours per week, to be allocated over a year. As a result, some volunteers must already lift their feet because their hours are already very high. The solution is to recruit. But there are also obstacles to this recruitment. Among other things, the number of hours of training that had already increased from 90 hours to 1 p.m., and since 1 January 2016 to 260 hours of training for a volunteer firefighter. They are also dispensed on weekends, so that more than one can be cooled. Volunteers agree to take the training and even get involved because they have no other job, but subsequently they find a job and abandon the ship, while they have received the training. In fact, a voluntary firefighter's activity is difficult to reconcile with professional and private life. This lack is also due to the perverse effect of professionalization, which further reduces the number of potential volunteers, since volunteers are professionalized. That said, fortunately in recent times, since it allows them to become operational more quickly. In addition, all firefighters, including volunteers, are currently required to have the FCA (federal certificate of fitness). Only 7 candidates passed the CAF, for the entire Hainaut, during the first session held in Jurbise. Minister, what is your view of this situation? To what extent does this shortage also affect other areas? What concrete solutions do you propose to remedy this situation? What measures could be envisaged to revive vocations? What about the measure that limits working time? Is the limit not to be revised upwards? Are measures envisaged to address the availability of firefighters and reconciliation with professional and private life? Increasing staff costs a lot. The municipalities do not have the financial means to meet this additional cost. How could the state help municipalities with this funding? What about the government's promise of 50-50 funding with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u110	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, as I have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions in this House, the importance for our country of volunteer firefighters to carry out civil security missions is no longer to be demonstrated. Volunteer firefighters have every reason to be in emergency areas. In the past year, the voluntary fire brigades asked me about a possible withdrawal of the volunteer firefighters following the establishment of the rescue zones. In order to achieve this objective, the Commission accompanying civil security reform has drawn up a questionnaire to gather information on the voluntary departure of volunteer firefighters. Almost all emergency areas responded to the questionnaire. It follows from the replies that the departure of volunteer firefighters, for reasons other than pension, professionalisation, choice between volunteer and professional in the same area or due to removal, is on average 2.50%. There is therefore no question of massive withdrawals of volunteer firefighters. It is planned to update this survey approximately every six months. It will also take into account the recruitment of firefighters by rescue zones in order to determine whether and to what extent the number of firefighters, both professional and volunteer, varies. The recruitment of firefighters is a decision that falls entirely within the scope of the emergency zones. It is they who also decide according to their needs if they recruit volunteer firefighters or professional firefighters. The Federal State intervenes at the level of the organization of the federal certificate of fitness, by constituting a pool in which the relief zones can draw their future members of the operational staff, the aim being here to harmonize for the whole Kingdom the recruitment tests and thus to make possible the mobility of personnel between the relief zones. To date, nearly 800 people have passed the federal certificate of fitness and obtained the sesame to apply in an emergency area. According to my information, it was 87 people, not 7 people, who obtained the federal certificate of fitness following the organization of the first session of events organized at the Jurbise Fire School. It is true that the percentage of success in this session is lower than in other fire schools. An evaluation of this session was made by KCCE, the competent centre for civil security. The results of this evaluation will be taken into account in future testing sessions. In addition, in order to support emergency areas in the recruitment process, my services are currently finalizing a campaign to recruit volunteer firefighters. This campaign is designed to meet the local needs of relief areas. It has different aspects. First of all, the provision of field equipment to the relief areas. The areas will be able to launch a campaign when they deem it necessary and organize themselves with fire schools so that the organization of the Federal Certificate of Fitness tests will disappear in the wake of the campaign. Second, the creation of a national web site to enable potential volunteer firefighters to know when and where Federal Certificate of Qualification tests are being held and vacancies in emergency areas. Third, a series of small films will be made to try to remove some of the prejudices that candidates would have over volunteer firefighters. Different aspects of a volunteer firefighter's life will be explained. One of the films will be dedicated to the tests of the Federal Certificate of Fitness in order to give an image as close to reality as possible. The campaign is expected to start in July 2016. One of the objectives of the fire service reform is to ensure a certain uniformity of fire services throughout the Kingdom. This objective is achieved partly by the federal certificate of fitness, but also by almost identical basic training requirements for volunteer firefighters and professional firefighters. The limitation of volunteer firefighters' service time to 24 hours per week meets Europe's requirements to supervise the volunteer firefighter's service time, while allowing the volunteer firefighter to continue his/her commitment to safety. This duration must be calculated taking into account a reference period of one year, which allows for great flexibility, since it allows volunteers to spend up to 1,248 hours per year. With regard to measures to enable volunteer firefighters to continue to combine voluntary firefighting, work and family life, progress is also being made. Educational leave has just been accepted by the Flemish Region. This will allow volunteer firefighters to follow certain modules of firefighter training as part of their activity with their principal employer. The application for recognition of an educational leave will now be submitted to the Walloon Region. It's a big step forward. In addition, my services are examining the possibility of entering into agreements with employers' federations to improve the availability of volunteer firefighters during the day. I think I've already answered your 7th question several times. But as far as funding is concerned, the additional costs of reform are covered by federal allocations to relief areas. An evaluation of these funds will be carried out by my departments in consultation with the relevant partners, in particular the Unions of Cities and Municipalities. If the new obligations are covered by federal funding, there is no need to double the financial resources of the relief zones. One of the objectives of civil security reform is to streamline the means. Economies of scale can be achieved through a thoughtful interaction between the different stations in a rescue zone. Some measures taken in the past to ensure the protection of a communal territory, such as the 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, are no longer useful in the context of a network of posts. It will be up to the relief zones to adapt their investments to take account of the zonal dimension. In this regard, a multi-year programme of policy and a staff plan are essential for the relief areas as soon as possible. I will conclude by recalling the federal government's financial effort to gradually increase federal allocations to relief areas of €137 million this year, to reach just over € 147 million in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u111	That's a very comprehensive answer. Thank you, Minister. We look forward to progress on solutions for firefighter availability and reconciliation with privacy. This is good news, especially with regard to educational leave. The results obtained in Hainaut are challenging. We would like information on what explains these very weak results, which prevent us from being able to recruit volunteer staff. It would be interesting to have some thought about this, in connection with the governor of the province. I have noted that the campaign material will be available in July. We are also looking forward to being able to increase our workforce because in this case, we will professionalize some 20 volunteers. This will allow us to engage them and make them operational faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u112	Minister, I would like to ask you about civil security reform since the passage into zones and the expectations of civil protection officers in particular. In fact, the Royal Order of the Missions of 10 June 2014, negotiated by Milquet, provides that non-specialized missions return to the relief areas. These missions to the areas have been actively involved in the refinancing of the areas. At the same time, civil protection is being applied a whole series of budget contractions. However, in the field, interventions in column 1 of the Royal Decree are still carried out by civil protection. This weighs heavily on the operating budget of the civil protection units, which should no longer be responsible for these missions. Moreover, despite the timing of the civil protection reform nine years later, it is still not being launched. Dissatisfaction and the lack of prospects for civil protection personnel are acutely felt. Staff still do not have the standard status assigned to the areas and to the prison guards when they are currently doing exactly the same work. Equal pay for equal work. And the government has promised and recognized this status. Moreover, the various agreements have not really been negotiated in the presence of all parties, including civil protection actors. Minister, what about the involvement of civil protection around the negotiating table? The civil protection officers are waiting for a communication from the minister who was promised for Easter, and then postponed in the first semester, but there is still nothing moving. When will civil protection reform be implemented? How will this be done? You are advocating a reorganization of civil protection by removing units and a constant operating expense envelope. What about it? A staff deletion has been established to keep the "staff costs" envelope constant. These operating savings, resulting from the abolition of units, have not been foreseen for the improvement of staff status, as planned. So what have they been allocated to, except for a reduction in the operating budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u113	My colleague, during the preparatory discussions on the reform, some civil protection officials were actively and repeatedly consulted, including trade unions. As soon as the government has agreed on a comprehensive reorganization of civil protection covering both its missions, units, status and system of work, the proposals drawn up will be the subject of trade union negotiations. I can assure you that on this occasion, my services and I will be particularly attentive to the aspirations and concerns expressed by staff members. During the first half of 2016, the exercise will focus on the assignment of missions to civil protection or fire areas and the criteria for the number and location of barracks. We will therefore make a distinction between the urgent tasks that will go back to the relief zones and the specialized or long-term tasks that will fall within the scope of civil protection. The aim is to finalize the reorganization in 2018. This means that everything will have been done on the ground. Decisions will be taken in the coming weeks and months. My services are currently in the process of preparing draft texts on the various issues. At present, work is well under way. However, since no draft has yet been submitted to the Council of Ministers, it is premature to decide on the modalities. As regards the possible closure of barracks, two sets of criteria will be used, namely the economic criterion and the operational criterion. An economic criterion refers to the state of the current infrastructure, the necessary investments, the possibilities of extending the sites, etc. Operational criteria are defined as the situation, the possibility of opening up, mobility, etc. The decrease in the number of barracks will result in lower overhead costs, which will provide financial resources for the upgrading of the status of civil protection personnel. There is no question here of making savings; the budget will be kept, the envelope will remain closed, but will be used to finance the status, which will be the same as for the relief areas. We'll work with less overhead. Following the previous point, it should be mentioned that there will indeed be a harmonisation of the statutes of fire departments and civil protection. For civil protection personnel, this will generally result in a considerable salary increase. The budget neutrality of the operation lies in the reduction in overhead costs, as a result of the decrease in the number of barracks. Neutrality, and no decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u114	Minister, thank you. It is important to make that clear, and I think it will be such as to shed some light on the situation. There may be a communication problem, because evil-being is important. They have been waiting for nine years since the law was published. This feeling of injustice they feel in relation to workers in the fire zones is real and profound. If you actually work in a closed envelope, their status should inevitably improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u115	The interplay No. Mr Dallemagne's 149 was postponed. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Question No 11482 by Mr de Lamotte 11487 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Nollet's 11344, 11503, 11590, 11591, 11592 and 11593 are converted into written questions. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Matz's 11552 and 11567 were postponed. Question No 24, by Mr De Gucht (H-l Mr Crusnière's 11298 and 11513 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u116	Minister, the law of 10 August 2015 provides for the possibility of refusing to issue the identity card, withdrawing the card or declaring it invalid for persons for whom there is evidence that they wish to move to an area where terrorist groups are active. Prime Minister, how many identity cards have been refused, withdrawn or annulled since the entry into force of the law? Secondly, after the maximum duration of the withdrawal, in particular three months, how many persons were granted a new card? Thirdly, how many people were granted an extension of the measure? Finally, in how many cases was the card re-allocated in a shorter period after the OCAD has informed you that the measure is no longer necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u117	Mr Yüksel, the law of 10 August 2015 introduces the initiative on the withdrawal of identity cards from the OCAD. By Royal Decree of 26 December 2015, that law entered into force on 5 January 2016. To date, six persons have been refused, withdrawn or declared void. In the case of four persons, the decision to withdraw was served for a period of three months. In the case of one person, that service is pending. In the case of one person, the decision to withdraw has been served for twenty-five days and a possible reaction is awaited. The three-month period is not over in any of those six people. To date, the OCAD has not returned to the opinions given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic424x.u118	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is too early to make political statements on this. We will, of course, follow up on the matter further.
