ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 8719 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u2	Mr President, Minister, a couple of weeks ago, I asked the Prime Minister about the statements made by the BBC by the Greek Minister of Immigration, Yiannis Mouzalas, who gave the Secretary of State Theo Francken comments which he would have made during or on the margins of an informal meeting of the JHA Council in Amsterdam, and which were of this content: "I don't care if you drown them, I just want you to reject them." On this occasion, you asked me: "(...) I would just like to point out to you that yesterday I was already questioned on this subject by the Greek ambassador to whom I replied. My answer is well known to all as it has been taken up in the media." The Prime Minister backed up your remarks and the simple press release of the Secretary of State, noting that you had already indicated in committee the content of the exchange with the Greek ambassador, the Prime Minister even speaking of a parliamentary reply. I listened to the recording again and I assure you that's what he's saying. The problem is that neither the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on External Relations on Wednesday before the plenary session nor the media seem to repeat your statements in connection with the Greek Embassy, unless we have been distracted. However, there are only two attitudes in this very serious case where we cannot be content with the so-called "one-size-fits-all". Either Mr Mouzalas is telling the truth and the words attributed to Mr Franken are proven and therefore deserve a punishment of the heaviest, or the Greek Minister lends Mr Franken remarks which he did not make. And then we are faced with what must be called a serious diplomatic crisis with Greece, which could not be resolved without a public apology from the Greek government. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What steps have you taken to shed light on this matter at diplomatic level, both vis-à-vis Greece and the Netherlands, which hold the rotating presidency of the European Council? What was the content of your interview with the Greek ambassador and what conclusions have you drawn? Who initiated such an interview? But I'm already deducing from your smile that I've probably been distracted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, in practical terms, I said this on 28 January 2016 in plenary session: "Yesterday, I have already been questioned by the Greek ambassador to whom I replied that my answer was known to all because it was taken up in the media". Of course, you will not find any trace of the exchange with the Greek ambassador in the committee's minutes because it does not usually sit here. Just to give you the details of what happened, I – as I do at the beginning of each European Presidency – took part in a lunch, at the invitation of the Ambassador of the Netherlands, who was called "Community breakfast". I presented the vision of Belgium and Belgian Foreign Affairs on the presidency that opens and on the major topical issues and then agreed to participate in a debate by answering questions from the various ambassadors present from all the members of the Union. The Greek ambassador asked me what exactly the Secretary of State had said in relation to what a Greek minister had said. I replied to him what the Prime Minister replied a little later in plenary on the same day, namely that the Secretary of State formally denied, by communiqué, the information reported by this Greek minister. We stayed there. We have nothing to apologise for or to initiate any procedure in relation to the fact that someone allows himself - which is not the rule - to express the point of view that would have been expressed by a colleague at an informal meeting, otherwise informal meetings are no longer useful, and a fortiori, when the point of view reported is false. Mr Franken clearly denied that. I told the ambassador of Greece. The Prime Minister has made this clear to Parliament. I can tell you again today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u4	Minister, I sum up because I am very distracted, like many people clearly. You summarize your inquiry here, only the questions in plenary session are filmed. To be sure not to say too much nonsense today – since, apparently, I said in plenary – I went back to the recording this morning. You are saying that the words and the exchange you had with the ambassador of Greece are known to all. You're saying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u5	My answer is well known to all as it has been taken up in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u6	For my part, I didn't find her in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u7	My answer is Mr Franken's denial.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u8	In that case, your answer is that Mr. Francken is telling the truth in his statement. If that is your answer, I hear it. I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u9	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u10	We also agree that when the Prime Minister tells me in plenary that you have answered a parliamentary question, that is not true. And he says it. He stated that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had had the opportunity to respond the previous day in a committee or in a parliamentary response. We can chip on the terms, but you have something else to do, and so do I. At the moment, the only thing we have is a denial by Mr Franken. The Greek minister maintained his remarks. I therefore repeat what I have already said, namely that we are in a serious crisis where a Secretary of State representing Belgium, even at an informal meeting, would have made very serious remarks. And the only denial we have come from the Secretary of State in question. We have to settle for it. Perhaps the government and the Prime Minister are content. But I'm not content with it. I repeat that there is a doubt, that the situation and these remarks are serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u11	Mr President, Minister, yesterday you received praise in this committee for the leading role you want to take in the Europe of the six founding EU Member States. In this capacity, you also took part in a consultation to reflect on the political future of the EU. Over the last few weeks, we have been struck by the EU's pros and counters. I suspect that in the coming weeks and months, and in particular up to the Brexit referendum, we will often be confronted with this. The meeting of the six Member States has already been communicated in the press. I am not asking you for a double explanation, but whether you can explain the position that you have defended there. Do you also see in that meeting a confirmation that Europe is no longer taboo? How are we supposed to interpret this meeting of a limited group? What does that mean within Europe's greater cohesion? The Brexit has already been discussed in detail. Italy has played a prominent role in setting up the dialogue and this is part of the attempt by the government in Rome to forge a closer union. An online survey for citizens is being opened in Italy. What do you think of that? Is that a good initiative that can also be implemented here?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u12	Minister, the reports on the informal meeting at the beginning of February of the six founding EU Member States can also give us hope. Stand still and think carefully about the course to be taken at such a difficult and challenging moment for the European Union, when we are faced with the migration crisis, the Brexit and the pressure on European values and standards, is a positive initiative. The aim seems to be to strengthen internal cooperation and unity. The criticism that a small meeting table will be added to Europe is ill-considered, because in the face of the enormous challenges, various initiatives must be taken to increase the chances of strengthening the European Union. Enabling the experienced network of experts from the six founding EU Member States can be a very interesting idea. I note, on the basis of reports in the media, that you have participated constructively. Of course, there are also questions about our position regarding a two-speed Europe. I would like clarification on this. Minister, what is the nature of the informal meeting or, where appropriate, meetings? What themes have been addressed? Can you clarify the Belgian position? What effect will the conclusions of the meetings have? What is your position on a two-speed Europe, and how exactly do you see it? Do you not think that such important steps for the future of Europe should be discussed more intensely here in Parliament? I read somewhere in the press that a next meeting might take place in Belgium. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u13	Minister, following the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, informal consultations were held on Tuesday 9 February at the initiative of the Italian Prime Minister, Renzi. We have an important role to play in this. Can you explain the position taken by Belgium during that discussion, specifically with regard to the asylum crisis, a Europe with different speeds and the Brexit? Have any other topics of conversation been part of the conversation? What conclusions are drawn from the discussion and how, in your opinion, will they affect the direction of the European Union? Are the six Member States planning to transform informal consultations into formal consultations involving several European Member States? If so, how do you think this will be done in concrete terms? If no, can you explain what would be the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I agree with my colleagues' questions. The European environment is particularly gloomy. Whether we like it or not, last week's Brussels summit was a precedent. European summits live a little at the rate of one damage control to the other. This summit in Rome seemed to be a clarification, a dynamic, positive and constructive initiative. A press release recalled the willingness of the founding members to take the initiative to strengthen European cohesion. You invited your colleagues in late April-early May. In concrete terms, what will be the menu for this meeting? Today we need to move from words to deeds, to concrete initiatives, to this political union. This initiative was symbolically interesting, but it must now be translated into very concrete action. What will happen to her? How will it turn into a real momentum?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, next year the European Union will be celebrating its 60th anniversary. At the invitation and initiative of Italy, the Foreign Ministers of the six founding countries met in Rome on 9 February to prepare this anniversary and to discuss the basic principles underlying the construction of Europe. The informal meeting also provided an opportunity for founding members to examine the evolution of the European project and the major challenges facing the Union. As founding members, we want to send a voluntaristic message with this meeting about the European construction, which has always been based on a spirit of solidarity. This spirit of solidarity was discussed, among other things, in the context of the refugee crisis. This is currently one of the biggest European challenges. Priority should be given to the efficient and humane implementation of the decisions taken and better management of the Union's external borders. Cooperation with the countries of origin and transit should be further strengthened. Europe needs a balanced and comprehensive geographical approach based on solidarity and responsibility. Another topic of discussion was the fight against terrorism and the defence of our values, with full respect for human rights and the principle of the rule of law. This challenge is great and requires the Union to play a role as a global player, including in the areas of security policy and foreign policy. Helping to secure peace and stability in the world is a strategic priority and of fundamental importance for the EU and for its future. This informal form of consultation also allowed us to reflect on the means that would enable us to relaunch the European Union's integration process. The founding countries have long been trying to develop a vision based on the realization that further integration is desirable in some areas. Variable dimensions should be possible, as is already the case with the euro area and the Schengen area. There was also, of course, talk about the Brexit and the unpredictable outcome of the British referendum. Some Member States, in particular Britain, may not want to further integrate. However, several important issues require a stronger European solution. The communiqué adopted at the end of the Rome meeting stressed that the ministers present remained committed to continuing the process, creating an ever closer union among the peoples of Europe. The process started at this meeting is expected to continue until March 2017, when the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome will be commemorated. The exercise is currently being conducted between the six founding countries, but it is not excluded that it should be open at a later stage to other Member States. In this context, we will examine possible progress under the existing treaties, as well as how to move forward in the longer term, possibly with amendments to those treaties. The next meeting will be held, at my invitation, in Brussels, probably at Val Duchesse Castle, where the Treaty of Rome has been negotiated. The process is at this stage still informal. These are exploratory discussions, which obviously do not require a formal position from the government. However, the principle of ever closer union was clearly defended by the Prime Minister on behalf of Belgium at last week's European Council. The Belgian Government currently has no plans to launch an online survey, such as Italy, in which citizens would be questioned about their vision of the future of Europe. The European Union has the Eurobarometer, a system in which scientifically sound opinion polls are conducted in the Member States. I am prepared to listen to the proposals and comments made by Members of Parliament, but so far it has been about an informal meeting of six foreign ministers. I did a similar exercise a few years ago with a dozen fellow Members following an initiative by my German colleague, Guido Westerwelle. At the end of the process, we gave a note on the future of Europe to the Presidents of the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament, and the leaders of the political groups in the European Parliament. Other actors, such as all fellow Members of the 28 Member States, also received this note. I will try to raise different issues at the next meeting. I believe that, among the topics that will be discussed again, are the deepening of economic and monetary union and the migration crisis. Of course, the European security and defence policy will be at the heart of our discussions, since foreign ministers are meeting. We will therefore try to move forward on certain issues, but which depend on other members of the Council. This is an initiative which, I do not hide from you, also tends to show that, if some partners – as we have seen with Great Britain – do not wish to participate in any European development, others want, not to make progress on all the issues, but to consolidate Europe in several areas where it is clear that the common policy allows us to move forward. As I have just said, this is clearly the case for economic and monetary union. This is also the case for migration policy and security and defence policy. Of course, we will continue to work on other topics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u16	Minister, it is a good thing that as many reflections as possible are formed in times of crisis. That was Cameron's intention at the time, three years ago, to stimulate the debate on Europe and to make everyone think. The six have also thought and reflected. In this respect, I continue to welcome this initiative as long as it is not just in the position of the United Kingdom, in or out. That's not the only thing we stand for today. This crisis involves much more: migration and finance, but also growing further towards a meaningful and more efficient Europe. I believe that this opportunity is also part of the consultation in which you participate with the six.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u17	Minister, I understand that the intention is to stop doing so in March 2017, unless it would appear that it is an interesting forum to do something together in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The informal nature of this meeting has the advantage of being pragmatic. I think it's an interesting exercise. It is very easy to continue with this. You also refer to a previous initiative, the initiative of Germany which you have addressed. A letter was also sent at the time. I would just find it interesting to know what the state of affairs is today, following that letter. Where are we today? Is the status quo or have things actually changed? Finally, a general message: membership of the European Union means taking but also giving. In the context of the refugee crisis, you yourself refer to the fact that solidarity is accompanied by responsibility. I believe that this is the only message that is important to continue to underline. This applies to all Member States. We believe that it is essential to stress this again here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u19	Mr Minister, informality suits me as long as it is a solid initiative and there is an agenda. The worst thing would be to have another disappointment. Today, we really need new initiatives and new impetus, with real, ambitious policies at European level. It has been a long time since Europe took a fundamental decision, an important initiative. We are far from major decisions such as Schengen or the single currency. There is no real strong and important news that is mobilising citizens, and during this time Europe continues to be hit on all sides. And this has rather accelerated since the European Council, there are demands to dismantle Europe. You have cited defence, it is an excellent area for which we can take an initiative, as well as in social matters. There are a number of areas where, at six, we can try to move forward and remobilise European citizens. I expect a lot from you in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I would not like to take the mood off by talking to you about zinc and death, but that is still what I am going to do. I come to tell you about an old problem, namely the cross-border transfer of the deceased between Belgium and France. As you know, many French people can be hospitalized in Belgium but also stay in nursing homes. The problem is that nothing has been planned to facilitate the return of the deceased to their country of origin. When I say that nothing is planned to facilitate the return of the deceased to France, I mean that the procedures are complicated and costly. For the signatory countries of the Treaty of Strasbourg, including France and Belgium, the coffin transiting from one country to another must be made of zinc. In addition, the death pass is issued by the local authorities. This involves cumbersome administrative procedures and significant costs. While this measure is understandable for health reasons on a relatively large journey, it seems inappropriate for a journey that does not exceed a few kilometres in border areas. It is for this reason that since 1963 a simple authorisation is sufficient for the bodies of deceased persons to cross the borders within the Benelux. But why is there no provision for small trips between Belgium and France? I have learned through the press that various political steps have been taken since 2010 to address this problem. It appears that a bilateral agreement is currently under discussion in the FPS Foreign Affairs. We are apparently in the stage of analysis of the counter-proposal received by France. Minister, where are we on the record today? Do you already analyse the counter-proposal given by our French neighbours? Have the Regions and the Federal State already agreed on this issue? If so, what has emerged? Can you give me a timeline for the progress of the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u21	Mr President, Mr Delannois, as you have pointed out, the problem is well known to my department, since we have been working on it for some time now. To be precise, on 11 April 2014, Belgium had submitted a draft treaty to France. On April 24, 2015 - a year later - a French counter-proposal was sent to us. This French counter-proposal is currently being discussed in consultation with the relevant federal public services – Justice and Public Health – the three Regions and the German-speaking Community. Over the past few months, several reactions have been received and analysed. In order to formulate a common response to the French counter-proposal, my services are now preparing a consultation meeting, which should take place as soon as possible. I hope that we can move forward more consensually in this area than in certain commercial areas of investment protection; otherwise, we will obviously be blocked before we can respond to our French colleagues. I hope there is a willingness to find solutions in each of the regions and in the German-speaking Community. But I can assure you that we will not fail to move forward on this issue, obviously taking into account the different competences I have just mentioned. If necessary, I would suggest to my French colleague that we coordinate perhaps the next step. There was indeed a Belgian proposal, a French proposal and a Belgian reaction. At some point, a number of concrete choices may have to be made. We are now trying to formulate a Belgian reaction to the French counter-proposal and, if possible, to arrive at a text. Having said that, I cannot guarantee that the position is, for the time being, unanimous between the various federal departments and the various federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope common sense triumphs. We often talk about Europe, but I think it is very concrete cases that make one believe it or not. I am the mayor of a city on the border, and I can assure you that this is the kind of things that we hear systematically about, not necessarily in the case I have just mentioned. The same applies to police, agreements to be concluded with the French State concerning emergency zones, etc. We are all convinced here by Europe, but we also need concrete examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u23	Minister, there is a totalitarian regime in Eritrea where unprecedented atrocities are committed against its own people. The country is sometimes referred to as North Korea of Africa or an open prison, in which all citizens and all residents from birth are in principle serfs or slaves of the military dictatorship of President Isaias Afewerki. Eritrea has no freedoms. There's a lifelong conscription. The regime has total control over the media and public life. Those who fall into disgrace risk torture or disappearance. It should not be surprised, therefore, that the Eritrean diaspora, until recently, accounted for a quarter of asylum applications in Europe. According to UNHCR, some 2 000 Eritrean citizens per month are trying to flee their country to life and death. Once these refugees arrive here in Europe, they are still not liberated. They're still dragging a yoke with them. The Eritrean government, through its embassies, is imposing a recovery and reconstruction tax on extravagant people and their descendants, who are called diasporataks in the head of my question. If these extravagants do not pay the tax, they put left behind relatives and friends at risk. In 2011, the United Nations called on the Eritrean government, through Resolution 2023, to put an end to these reprehensible practices. Unfortunately, the call wasn't enough. Recently, in February 2016, the British Metropolitan Police launched an investigation into such activities. I would have liked to ask you a number of questions about the issue in a Belgian context. Do you know whether the Eritrean Embassy uses such practices in Belgium, particularly in Brussels? Since the imposition of the tax would be contrary to the Vienna Convention on diplomacy and there has also been an explicit condemnation of the United Nations, will you and will you address the Eritrean ambassador on the issue? Finally, many Eritreans venture to a perilous crossing of the Mediterranean Sea, to escape the oppression in their country. Will our country direct to the European Union and insist on a stricter approach by the Eritrean government in order to stop such migratory waves and practices? Thank you, Minister, for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u24	Mr Luyckx, the practice of lifting so-called diasporataks by Eritrean diplomatic posts in respect of the Eritrean community abroad is known to me. However, on the basis of the information I received, it is not clear whether this practice is also being applied by the Eritrean Embassy in Brussels and if this were the case, under what modalities. We will contact the Eritrean ambassador for this. Taking into account the relatively limited bilateral relations between Belgium and Eritrea and the cross-border nature of the migration from Eritrea to the EU, of which only a very small number are heading towards Belgium, our country prefers a common European approach to this issue within a wider framework of structured political dialogue and development cooperation in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreements. This consultation shows an increasing awareness among the Eritrean authority of the negative economic impact in the long term of a sustained wave of especially young people leaving the country, after the phenomenon was ignored for years. There were some positive signs of a willingness on the part of the authorities to adjust policies. Thus, the regime committed itself to implementing 92 recommendations resulting from the UN Universal Periodic Survey. It was also announced that the duration of national conscription, an important push factor of youth migration, would be limited to 18 months. In addition, the authorities recognise the need for economic reforms to offer the population opportunities in terms of employment and basic prosperity. Specifically on migration, the country's participation in the so-called Khartoum Process and, more recently, the EU-Africa Summit in Valletta has shown its willingness to seek sustainable solutions. The country was encouraged to submit projects under the newly established trust fund. In addition, a cooperation plan under the 11th EDF was signed very recently between the EU and Eritrea for the next five years worth EUR 200 million, with due attention to good governance and human rights. Belgium will follow this issue with due attention, in particular the necessary concreteisation of the Eritrean authorities in relation to the commitments made. We will also contact the Eritrean Ambassador to obtain more details on such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u25	Minister, I do believe that we should not only support an EU initiative or consultation, but that we should also assume our own responsibilities and contact the embassy on a bilateral basis. There are many promises and initiatives in this regard. We can only see, in the media and also from the testimonies of the people who fled there, that the situation is poignant. People are being abused and shot there. I think we should beware of considering all these intentions and initiatives as sufficient. Between dream and deed are laws and objections. And in this case also melancholy, which no one can explain, as the poem continues. Apart from that, I will certainly commit myself to that theme and I will follow it up further. I look forward to the results of the discussion between you and the Eritrean Embassy in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u26	Mr President, Mr. Minister, the Deutscher Richterbund (DRB), the prestigious association of German magistrates, stated in early February its opposition to the establishment of a Court System (ICS) under a possible agreement on the TTIP, knowing that the ICS was replacing the ISDS system which was discussed at length earlier. The DRB – which is not nothing, it is a highly respected institution in Germany – sees neither the legal basis nor the need for such a court. The DRB is of the opinion that the ICS's implicit idea that courts in EU Member States do not provide sufficient legal certainty to foreign investors is wrong. If the partners in the current negotiations (the United States and Europe) identified weaknesses in the judicial systems of the Member States, they would then have to remedy this by introducing new legislation at national or European level. It is, according to these judges, in this way that the rights to which any litigator in Germany and the European Union can claim can be guaranteed: the creation of arbitral tribunals for particular groups of litigants is, according to this association, inappropriate. According to the DRB, an ICS would also affect the existing judicial system within the Member States of the European Union. The association thus makes an interesting parallel between the ICS and the European Patent Court. In an opinion delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on 8 March 2011 on the latter, it is considered that these parallel courts would deprive "the courts of the Member States of their competence to interpret and apply Union law and the Court of Justice of the latter to answer, as a preliminary ruling, the questions put by those courts and, as a result, would distort the powers conferred by the Treaties on the institutions of the Union and on the Member States which are essential to the preservation of the very nature of Union law." Hence, minister, my questions. Is this opinion, from a very influential association from the most important EU country, both politically and economically, likely to give you doubts about the implementation, after the now aborted ISDS, of an ICS in the context of the possible TTIP? When the possible consolidated text of the TTIP is drawn up, do you intend to seek the opinion of the CJEU on the compatibility of this draft text with the policies and rules of the European Union and in particular with the Treaty of Lisbon? Indeed, on the basis of the terms of Article 218, § 11, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, any Member State may request an opinion from the Court of Justice of the European Union on the compatibility of an international agreement which the Union intends to conclude with the requirements of the Treaties, including, in the case of trade agreements, with "Union policies and rules" (Article 207, § 3). For the same reasons, do you intend to seek an opinion from the CJEU on the text now drafted of the CETA, knowing that it introduces an ISDS system, for which compatibility with EU law is even more questionable and contested by many associations and citizens in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u27	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the main reason for establishing an investor-state dispute resolution mechanism under a free trade agreement is that for many countries these agreements are not directly enforceable in the national legal order. This is the case for the United States and within the European Union. The purpose of the investor-State dispute resolution mechanism is to protect foreign investors from any form of discrimination or unequal treatment for domestic investors. With the new Investment Court System principle, the Commission wants to ensure equal treatment between US investors in Europe and EU investors in the US. The Commission's ICS proposal provides for an article which provides that a ICS court is not competent for the interpretation and application of the national laws of the Member States and EU legislation, thereby avoiding any interference with the jurisdiction of the national courts and tribunals and the Court of Justice of the European Union. I have no doubt that, in drawing up this proposal, the European Commission has pursued the objective of respecting the fundamental standards of the European Union. In addition, this type of mechanism is reflected in more than 1,400 bilateral investment agreements that Member States have concluded in the past. European investors are generally the largest users and even rely on ISDS provisions contained in investment agreements concluded between Member States, thus within the European Union. Germany – since you are referring to legal debates in Germany – has itself concluded more than 135 bilateral investment agreements that include such a mechanism, including with a number of EU Member States. As I have already told Parliament, the Commission has received the support of a very large majority of Member States for this new ISDS system. I have just mentioned Germany, but France, Italy and Greece with their current government also support the Commission's proposal. As far as the intentions of questioning the Court of Justice or other actors are concerned, we will see this at the end of the process. For the moment, I believe that the Commission is doing its utmost to avoid endangering the fundamental standards of the European Union and is also doing its utmost to prevent interference with the competences of the national courts and tribunals, as well as those of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I do not, of course, agree with you on the importance of a number of associations in the countries of the Union, but on the basis of the information available to me, the concerns expressed by the Commission. Deutsche Richterbund have had no impact on the German position on the new system of investment jurisdiction proposed by the Commission also known as ICS. I congratulate you for taking the trouble to read in detail the concerns of this certainly venerable association of German jurists. I think that the members of the parties of the majority – the great coalition – in Germany have certainly taken the pain as well. But this does not seem to have had any effect since the German Government supports the Commission's proposal. I am ready to open a reading room to make available the opinion of this association.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u28	Minister, that will not be necessary since it is already available. But if you want, I'll send it to you. I even translated it. A Richter, in German, he's not a lawyer, he's a magistrate, a judge. It is not an eminent association of jurists, but of magistrates, which is fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u29	Unfortunately, I went through modern mathematics when I arrived in humanities. You may remember that in modern mathematics, there is a theory of ensembles. However, judges are a subgroup of the legal category. Nothing prevents me from calling your magistrates lawyers, being myself a lawyer but certainly not eminent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u30	Of course, but if you speak as a lawyer with respect to the ICS or ISDS, it is not the same as if you are speaking as a judge, that is, a person potentially brought to trial before a court, which is fundamentally different. And the judge in Germany, more than anywhere else, is an extremely important person in history and society. What does the association say? She says that investors' rights can be guaranteed through normal courts and tribunals. That's what she tells you and reminds you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u32	Mr Minister, I attach more importance to judges from courts and tribunals, including the Court of Justice of the European Union, than to judges from law firms paid extremely high prices by multinationals, whose aim is to guarantee the interests of these multinationals and not the domestic legal order. I have indeed told you that the ISDS clause is present in many trade agreements, including the European Union. But this is not a question of this clause, but of the ICS clause proposed by the European Commission, Commissioner Malmström, because the ISDS closure is inconceivable, not only for lawyers, not only for judges but also for citizens in general. Finally, I have proposed that the text of the TTIP be validated, possibly finalized, by requesting the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union – which has never been done. This is an open door, a constructive proposal. I do not claim, like some of my colleagues, that the treaty finally negotiated will not be compatible with the rules of the European Union. But it does not cost anything to seek the opinion of the European Court of Justice. And if Belgium could take the initiative to do so, it would grow and it would be a good thing in terms of transparency and respect for our treaties and values.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u33	Minister, China is an important trading partner for the European Union and also for Belgium. When China was incorporated into the WTO in 2001, it was recognised that China was not a market economy and was subject to various anti-dumping measures. That transitional commission in China's WTO accession protocol will run until 11 December 2016. In any event, the decision whether or not to grant China an automatic market economy status must be taken in the short term. China is seeking recognition for a market economy, which can have a major impact on our country's jobs. One fears a great loss of jobs and, among other things, the flooding of our market by cheaply subsidised steel from China. Last week we saw demonstrations against this. Minister, what criteria do you consider to determine whether or not China is entitled to the market economy status? Do you think that China meets the five specific criteria of the European Union in order to be regarded as a market economy? What would the impact be on Belgian jobs, investments and our competitiveness? What is Belgium's position on this, taking into account the international legal obligations to which we are subject? What options are discussed at European level? Is there agreement between the various Member States and institutions on this? You discussed these matters during Commissioner Malmström's visit. What was the tone of that conversation? Is there any consultation with the other WTO members on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u34	Mrs Claerhout, not only the EU criteria are important in the possible granting of market economy status to China. The commitments made in the past in the framework of the World Trade Organisation take precedence over the EU's application criteria. The EU anti-dumping regulation lays down five criteria for determining whether an exporting country is eligible for market economy status or treatment, as stated in the text. These criteria are the following: first, free market forces; second, transparent and international accounting rules; third, no distortion of competition by the public sector and state-owned enterprises; fourth, bankruptcy and property law; fifth, an independent financial sector and an ongoing exchange rate. Belgium advocates an in-depth impact analysis, both legally and socio-economicly, before taking a decision. That Commission analysis was promised to us by this summer. I have reminded you once again of the European Commissioner, Mrs Malström. As you know, anti-dumping policy is an exclusive EU competence. Member States should therefore take a final position only after a concrete Commission proposal. This proposal can be expected after or together with the Commission's analysis, i.e. by the summer. At the moment, the EU has proposed three options: firstly, the no option, where there is no award, the EU does nothing; secondly, the yes option, where there is an award, the EU says yes and nothing more than that; thirdly, the option consisting of an accompanying package in the form of a more effective trade defence policy, which would include the decision to accompany a legislative amendment with the aim of either strengthening the European defensive trade instrument erga omnes or introducing specific protection measures for the most vulnerable sectors. I am not saying that there will be a reorientation, but the Commission is working more and more towards the third option with an accompanying package. However, it is too early to say anything about this now. Given the importance of this dossier for the Belgian economy, the strategic steel sector in particular, I myself, my services and our embassies are already proactively consulting with other WTO and EU partners. I drew Commissioner Malmström's attention to the impact of the different scenarios on the steel sector and on the other sectors. We will continue to analyse the possible reactions of the European Commission. First we make an impact analysis and then we make a choice between the Commission's various concrete proposals by the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that you will follow up this dossier closely in the coming months and that you will discuss it with Commissioner Malmström, especially in the steel sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u36	Mr President, Minister, under the previous legislature, the House adopted a resolution on the protection of the Christian community and other religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Middle East and the Middle East. In this context, my group has stressed the importance of freedom of expression and has intervened to stress that it is indeed a question of combating any form of discrimination, not of highlighting one group of the population or opposing one group to another. Indeed, non-believers are also increasingly being persecuted around the world, called agnostics, humanists or atheists. Judgments of justice are ever more severe for "crimes" such as blasphemy or apostasy. Examples include the murders of bloggers and secular publishers in Bangladesh, the death sentences for apostasy in Saudi Arabia and Mauritania, and the case of the atheism war in Egypt. Nor do I speak of the "blasphemers" and "apostats" murdered by Daesh, hence the current concern. The non-believers who live in these parts of the world are under threat, and this has been completely ignored. Yet they also have the right to our indignation and protection. Minister, what information do you have about the evolution of human rights and the freedom of expression of non-believers in those countries that advocate humanism as a threat? Has the number of persecuted non-believers increased as a result of the rising violence of the Daesh group? When I ask you the question, I understand that you are going to answer in the direction of an increase. What are the views, attitudes and initiatives of Belgian and European diplomacy in relation to this situation? What clear concept of freedom of expression does our foreign policy defend? In the face of the dramatic situation in these countries whose future lies in the post-Community where a true society can politically and socially emerge and organize itself beyond the membership of a particular group, how do the various international bodies advocate this more general approach to freedom of expression, not just membership of a group or religion, vis-à-vis the different governments of these countries? Finally, what are the initiatives taken by the United Nations and the European Union in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u37	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, I would first like to point out that I share your point of view. It is a question of combating all forms of discrimination and not of highlighting or opposing one group of the population. With regard to freedom of religion or belief, Belgium supports the position of the European Union, which adopted guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief in 2013 and on online and offline freedom of expression in 2014. These guidelines confirm that freedom of opinion and freedom of expression are a fundamental right of everyone. These two freedoms are essential to the realization and exercise of many other human rights, including freedom of religion or belief. Blasphemy laws are defined as laws that criminalize blasphemy and limit the expression concerning religious or other beliefs. The European Union recommends decriminalizing these offences and strongly opposes the use of the death penalty, corporal punishment and deprivation of liberty to punish blasphemy. In the guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief, the Union focuses not only on the right of persons to believe, but also on the right of persons not to believe and freely to manifest their beliefs individually or in common. Freedom of expression, of which freedom of the press is a priority in the work of Belgian diplomacy. I can confirm that this issue is being addressed in many bilateral meetings, particularly in countries with repressive legislation in this area. This issue is also highlighted by Belgium in the context of the universal periodic review of a number of countries. Within the United Nations, the European Union and Belgium promote freedom of religion or belief, strongly oppose religious intolerance and call for greater protection of persons belonging to religious or other minorities from persecution and violence. Since freedom of religion or belief and freedom of expression are closely linked, both efforts are an integral part of the fight against intolerance and discrimination based on religion or belief. Every year, the European Union submits a resolution on freedom of religion or belief to the Human Rights Council and the United Nations General Assembly. Belgium co-sponsors them. Our country also supports the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief and intervenes in interactive dialogues with this Special Rapporteur in the context of the Council's activities. As I said, Belgian diplomacy regularly intervenes in these matters. I never fail to do so, with my colleagues from the countries concerned, including to indicate our concerns about a number of individual cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I had no doubt that we were totally on the same wavelength on this subject, but I wanted to stress this issue. Beyond the groups and communities that are shown for their persecution, it is true that individuals who have decided not to believe and to have the spirit free from religious thought are even more cruelly persecuted than men or women who share other religions. It's really important to worry about all those people around the world who have chosen to have a free mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u39	Mr President, Minister, since the fall of Gaddafi in October 2011, Libya has been plunged into chaos, now facing violence between armed groups and with two parliaments and governments fighting power. Last week, the formation of a new Libyan government of national union, composed of eighteen members, including five ministers, was announced by the Presidential Council, born of an agreement concluded in December under the auspices of the United Nations between representatives of the two rival parliaments. Stakeholders hope that this can be a first step towards the end of the conflict in Libya. However, its approval would remain uncertain, as the parties involved in the Presidential Council did not agree unanimously on the legitimacy of this new government whose appointment would not have been fully transparent. Indeed, the situation remains ambiguous in this country, with the other unrecognized parliament, located in Tripoli, also claiming power. The situation is urgent, with Daesh taking advantage of this power vacuum in Libya to implant and take control of the city of Sirte and its surroundings. The great powers believe that only a government of national unity can be a reliable interlocutor to fight Daesh in the country and to better curb the departure of thousands of migrants from the Libyan coast to Europe. Minister, how do you look at the new government formed under the supervision of the United Nations? Does the European Union support this implementation? What about the management of humanitarian aid on the ground with regard to the formation of this new government? What is the current security situation in Libya, particularly with regard to the establishment of Daesh and its security implications?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u40	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the proposal made by the Presidential Council for the formation of a new Libyan government of national unity is a positive step for the country. Parliament must look into the proposal in the near future and the representatives are clearly once again divided on the matter. The formation of a national unity government is crucial to meeting the many challenges facing the country. Every peaceful action that promotes the formation of the government brings hope. The European Union stands ready to support this government in the implementation of the agreement once the government is formed. I welcome the efforts made by the United Nations Special Representative on the subject, Martin Kobler, who is trying to close this case after all the efforts made by Bernardino Leon in the past. One of the fundamental principles of the political agreement is a commitment to address the humanitarian situation of refugees and displaced persons. The agreement states that the Government shall provide humanitarian assistance to areas and persons affected by the conflict and that the signatories shall support the efforts of the Government, the United Nations and other relevant institutions. In accordance with the agreement, the monitoring committee for the implementation of the provisional security arrangements to be set up by the Government should, inter alia, facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance. The security situation is precarious in several Libyan regions. Since the pressure on Daesh in Iraq and Syria has increased, the Libyan branch of the organization has been strengthened. It controls the territory of Sirte, but elements of Daesh are also present in other cities such as Derna. As demonstrated by the organization's attacks over the past few weeks, Daesh's ability to lead large complex operations is important. I would add that the terrorist threat also emanates from other groups linked to Al-Qaeda. Given the country's strategic situation between Africa, the Middle East and Europe, insecurity in Libya can threaten the stability and interests of the region as a whole. The international community is therefore following developments in Libya very closely. The situation was discussed, in particular, at the coalition meeting against Daesh in Rome in early February. Current developments confirm the urgency of the formation of an effective government. I hope that this can be achieved on the basis of the agreements that are submitted to the Libyan representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u41	Minister, thank you. Should the political process be speeded up to halt the development of the Islamic State? We know it's one of the nodes of the problem. Unfortunately, yesterday, the parliament recognised in Tobruk was unable, for lack of quorum, to obtain a vote of confidence, so that the sitting was postponed until next week. It doesn't sound like white smoke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u42	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u43	Minister, on 15 February 2016, the Bosnian government submitted an application to become a member of the European Union. This request is somewhat unexpected, given that less than a year ago an association agreement was concluded between the EU and Bosnia. In addition, the country hardly meets any requirement for European membership. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a political and economic dysfunctional country, with high youth unemployment and deep-rooted corruption. We were therefore surprised that the request was welcomed enthusiastically by Federica Mogherini, who said that accession was a good thing for Bosnia and for the European Union. Our party's vision is to concentrate initially on the deepening and strengthening of the European Union as it is today, including a possible enlargement of the Union, rather than focusing again on further enlargement. European citizens sometimes have the impression that the union is becoming a kind of pigeon house: Bosnia can join or not, if the United Kingdom gets out Scotland may become a new Member State, Catalonia has started an independent procedure. Taking into account this framework, we opt for deepening. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. What do you think of Bosnia's application for EU membership? How do you estimate their chances? Do you think it is appropriate to restart a membership procedure in these eventful times for the EU? Do you believe that the start of the accession procedure does not send a wrong signal, as it gives some legitimacy to what is going wrong in Bosnia? Finally, what attitude will the government take to the Bosnian application for EU membership?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u44	Mr President, Mr Luykx, the Thessaloniki European Council in June 2003 offered the prospect of integration in the EU to all the countries of the Western Balkans. The first step is the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there was a political standstill for a few years due to internal political contradictions which made the necessary reforms impossible. The 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement could therefore not enter into force until June 2015. This breakthrough followed the new approach to the reform process and the mediation of the European Union. An agreement could be reached between all political views on an agenda with the most urgent reforms. It is to be welcomed that the Bosnian Government intends to continue the path of reform towards EU integration. She could have made other choices, too. The accession application can be seen in that light. However, there is still a long way to go, and the submission of an application does not automatically imply the start of accession negotiations. The Council will decide at a later date on whether sufficient and meaningful progress could be made on the aforementioned reform agenda before candidate status can be granted. This does not seem to be the case today. Only then can steps be taken to reach the actual accession negotiations, and conditions will be attached to them. So there is progress and a will to come up with real reforms, but now we have to see whether they will actually come about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u45	Minister, I do believe that we will have to show a dose of realism and not fall into an early positive reaction. Perhaps the impression given by Mrs Mogherini was premature. I believe that Bosnia's biggest problem is that no one seems to have the solutions to the many problems there today. The intention to respond to Bosnia's demand remains positive, I understand that, but we must take into account the reality of Bosnia. After all, we are far from a solution there. We cannot simply offer a perspective on membership in view of the current European context. The European Union is not the Eurovision Song Contest. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u46	Minister, some attention has already been paid to the subject of my question in the press. In a recent judgment, the Council of State annulled the Royal Decree of 31 March 2014 which promoted 16 diplomats from the fourth to the third class. In a fairly critical judgment, the annulment of the decision was argued. I would like to say it with the words of the Council of State itself. The promotion should be based on a comparison of the titles and merits of the candidates on the basis of objective, reasonable and pertinent criteria which are carried out so carefully that a differentiated ranking results. That's important. There should be no doubt about the way diplomats are launched and accredited. It's an important position and certainly not an easy job. Everyone, including the diplomats, will benefit from promotions in an atmosphere of objectivity and clarity, so that there can be no doubt that the selected people are also the best people in the right place. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Could you give a brief explanation of the case brought before the Council of State? Would you like to adjust the selection procedure? Do you see any possibilities for that? Should the procedure be repeated for the candidates involved? In the past, the N-VA has always advocated that the External Relations Commission should be assigned a role in this. Is that negotiable? Do you think it's a good thing? Finally, what does it look like for those involved? Does the decision have an impact on their further appointment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u47	Mr President, Mr Luyckx, in judgment No. The Council of State decided on 8 February 2016 that the Royal Decree of 31 March 2014 promoting 16 diplomats to the third administrative class of the foreign service career was to be annulled. It is therefore the promotion to another class, not a decision to go to another post in our network. It's an internal promotion. To answer immediately one of your questions: I do not think it is possible to come to Parliament with just a promotion and an internal evolution in our administration. First of all, it should be noted that the only selective reference in the question is to the judgment of the Council of State. The Council of State also noted that all candidates were indeed compared on the basis of the same criteria. It cannot therefore be claimed that this promotion procedure would not have been transparent. It should also be stressed that a new statute for foreign career has entered into force since August last year. It already provides for an amended promotion procedure. For example, candidates will be able to put forward their own arguments on the basis of which they consider that they are eligible for promotion. I had already asked for a new procedure, and that is the case with our new statutes. The competent executives within the FPS Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation are currently analysing the judgment. The administration will then submit to me a proposal on the procedure to be followed, taking into account the judgment of the Council of State which deals with the procedure rather than the substance of the promotion dossier. I am now waiting for a proposal from my administration for a new procedure instead of the 2014 procedure, taking into account the new statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u48	Thank you, Minister. This is indeed about the promotion that has been destroyed, not so much about the different posts. If that were not apparent from my question, then this is the case. I think it is very important for all concerned that there is clarity about this and that they feel legitimized by the justice and policy of the FPS to do what they have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I have tested for you the transparency of TTIP. The majority resolution on TTIP stresses the importance of transparency, which was the subject of debate in this committee. My colleagues were telling me that there was a great deal of progress in transparency since the consolidated texts could be consulted at the FPS Foreign Affairs. So I went there. One may wonder why access is limited to Members. If there is such a desire for transparency, why is access not extended to all citizens? Members who go there are deprived of all their business, they cannot have a computer. They get into some kind of small bunker and the documents are in a safe. A civil servant, of course very friendly, keeps an eye on us to see if we do anything illegal. No copy of the documents can be made in a sufficiently technical English language. We don't even have a dictionary available for the translation of certain words. The loudest thing is that before you look at these documents, you have to sign a form that says you won't reveal what you've read. All this calls into question transparency and democratic debate, because what we have seen in these difficult conditions cannot be revealed. Minister, do you consider that the conditions for access to these documents really allow for transparency and democratic debate? Do you intend to act to change the conditions for access to these texts, as many civil society actors are calling for in a fight against the leadership of this TTIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u50	Mr Van Hees, I would first like to point out that it is not a question of giving access to the text of a treaty that would have been concluded between the European Union and the United States. The aim is to give access to a series of elements and negotiating positions of the European and American partners who have led a number of rounds of negotiations and who continue to do so. It is a question of giving access to documents reflecting negotiating positions. Even before this access was foreseen, I had obtained, with colleagues and after a number of pleas, the release of the European Commission's negotiating mandate, which was done. This is not often, it has not been done for many other negotiations, but for TTIP. Secondly, at a bilateral meeting that took place some time ago, I asked European Commissioner Cecilia Malmström to continue along this path, namely to publish regularly a number of Commission documents and positions on the Commission's website, so that they are accessible to all and not only to civil society, as you are referring to. I have also asked her to agree to present the state of the negotiations to the various parliamentary assemblies, not only at the federal level but also in the regions, which she has done to the satisfaction – and I am talking about the substance – of the parliamentarians who have been able to meet with her both at the federal level and in the Regions and Communities. The Commission has also consulted widely with the public through an approach that honors it, in order to hear the reactions to these negotiations. As I have already had the opportunity to mention, an agreement was also reached with the United States at the end of December on the establishment of national TTIP reading rooms in each of the Member States of the European Union. These reading rooms allow access to confidential documents that explicitly describe the positions of the United States in the negotiations. It was the United States' position that had to be negotiated for an expanded consultation. For the same reason, these documents are confidential, while all the negotiating positions of the European Union are available on the European Commission's website. That is also why a commitment is required not to explicitly mention the positions of the United States reflected in the documents. It seems to me quite obvious that we must proceed in this way if we are to get our American colleagues to agree that we should be aware of the positions they are defending during the negotiations. The Belgian reading room, which I believe is one of the first at European level, was opened on 26 January at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In line with the division of competences between the federal and federal levels, Belgium also requested and was the only one to obtain an exception allowing access to the reading room outside the federal level alone. This gives us access to all the federated entities, with a large number of parliamentarians. And I myself said that if parliamentary groups did not have members in the committees concerned one day by the analysis of a future TTIP, they are also given access to those members. This is also your case since you have been able to access it despite the fact that your group does not have an effective place in the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is also the case for other groups, particularly I believe in the German-speaking Community, to which I have also given this access. But we are the only country to have obtained and requested access, including for federated entities. To sum up and not to mention the work of the European Parliament, in order to exercise parliamentary democratic control over the TTIP negotiations, Belgian Members of Parliament and federated entities can count on free access to all European negotiating texts, via the Commission's website, on a negotiating mandate declassified at my request and that of a few colleagues, on the participation of members of my administration and even Commissioner Malmström in the hearings that have been organised and finally on the consultation of texts describing the negotiating positions of the United States in the chapters already under discussion. I am sorry to note with you that American negotiators work mainly in English. But that doesn't seem completely absurd to me. I simply hope that there are members in all parliamentary groups who can read documents in English, which, I repeat, are the American negotiating positions. We can always think about further improvements, but I confirm to you that I am quite satisfied with the increased transparency that I have been able to obtain for TTIP, with the help of some European colleagues and with the constructive engagement of the Commission. Together with the parliamentary questions that I continue to answer as today and with the regular contacts with civil society - again this week, with the National Council for Sustainable Development, with which I have had the opportunity to discuss the TTIP - these measures seem to me to be fully responsive to the needs of our democratic State. I am pleased that, as the reading room was opened on 26 January, we received requests from 16 February to consult the documents in the reading room of my department. Before your visit was announced, we had received the visit from a member of the Flemish Parliament. Only one, out of just over a hundred people to whom we authorize this visit. Now, I think we have, if I am not mistaken, received eight requests from parliamentarians to read the texts. I believe that we will have to debate the extent to which we really need to make efforts of this magnitude to get the European Commission and the US negotiators to set up such a system, if the interest in getting to know the texts is as obvious as what I have seen – but we still have time in the negotiations. I am not going to talk about the absences of the committee, but I understand, by listening to certain radio broadcasts and by going through the list, that parliamentarians who have so far not bothered to ask to come and read the texts have spoken about the degree of transparency offered. I can tell you that we are totally at the forefront of this. I cannot check today, but Belgium is probably the only one, at least one of the very first countries to have opened its reading rooms. I repeat, we are the only one who has obtained that not only parliamentarians at national level, but also in the Regions and Communities – we are not the only federal state in Europe – can have access to these documents. I do not even plead, I do not try to obtain a minimum of objectivity on the subject. These documents describe the US negotiating positions, which are normally classified. We are getting them made available to Belgian parliamentarians. Of course, it can always be said that this is nothing. I simply hope that all those who will speak on the TTIP in the future will at least have taken the trouble of reading them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u51	Minister, to hear you, you're great!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u52	Be careful, Mr. Van Hees, your comments will be reflected in the report... [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u53	First of all, I'm happy because, if I understand you correctly, you initiated a movement. Indeed, at the time I communicated to the press that I was going to the reading room, there was one person who had gone there before me and seven who went there after, in the meantime, or who asked to go there. In any case, you can recognise here my positive role as regards the reputation of this reading room and its use. As far as the English language is concerned, I take note of your answer. I simply and modestly point out that there was a representative of your party at the same time as me in the reading room and that he himself had asked for an English-French dictionary. You see that it is not only in my party that we have this requirement. More generally and this also explains, I think, the small number of parliamentarians who went there, it is the conditions of consultation that make the exercise very difficult, that is to say, we cannot make photocopies or have internet access. It makes you laugh because your references may be that kind of practice, but I think that in terms of democratic debate, we have a serious problem! This is still not about any treaty. It is a treaty that will influence the daily lives of 850 million people, which will have a very strong impact. The question that these 850 million citizens who do not have access to these texts are asking themselves is: what do we have to hide? That's the real question. The conditions for consultation do not allow it to be met. You tell us that they are imposed by the United States. It's true, but somewhere, it's a bad omen. A treaty is being negotiated with a State that does not respect this essential democratic rule of giving access to the texts to the population. If that is what the United States is imposing on Europe, I think it is wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u54	Minister, the Israeli army recently destroyed some 20 houses in two Palestinian villages south of Hebron. On 2 February, some 100 Palestinians, including 60 children, found themselves homeless during the coldest period of the year. Ten of these houses were funded by the European Union, while others were funded by the United Kingdom and Denmark under a United Nations programme. This is not the first time that such destruction has occurred in Israel. In 2011 alone, the European Commission estimated the value of the destroyed infrastructure at EUR 49 million. I myself had the opportunity, on a mission to the country with Mrs Grovonius, to see from sight in the Palestinian village of Khirbet al-Tawil the destruction of an electric transport network which had been financed by Belgian cooperation. At the time, you said you were going to have consultations to see what was happening. I recall that, as a signatory to the Geneva Convention, Belgium must uphold international law as well as international humanitarian law by demanding an end to the policy of expansion of settlements, but also to the destruction of civilian infrastructure, which constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights of the Palestinians. Will Belgium put pressure on the Council and the European Commission to demand compensation for the destroyed infrastructure and to adopt appropriate sanctions against Israel? Can you indicate what the outcome of your convening of the Israeli Ambassador in October 2014 was when there were destructions in the Palestinian village of Khirbet al-Tawil?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u55	Mr President, I am not going to repeat the points made by my colleague; the facts are obviously the same. Perhaps I will just say that this 20 houses destroyed by the Israeli army were located in Jinba and Halawa, two villages south of Hebron. As far as the European Commission is concerned, in 2011 the infrastructure financed by the European Commission was estimated at EUR 49.14 million. Sorry, that is the value of the infrastructure destroyed by the Israeli army in the occupied West Bank, of which EUR 37 million came directly from the European Union or one of its Member States. The questions I wanted to ask you about these events of February 2 are as follows. Has there been a condemnation of such destruction? I didn't hear you do it. We heard you at the time, following the destruction of the CTB-funded project, but in this context I did not hear a statement from you. At the bilateral European or multilateral level, does Belgium intend to seek compensation for this destroyed infrastructure from the Israeli authorities? Finally, do you consider that, as a result of these events, you could change your attitude in view of this ongoing policy of destruction and the policy of settlement expansion that continues and risks, at some point, jeopardizing any chance of finding a just and lasting solution to the conflict? Do you intend to change your decision on the timing of the recognition of the Palestinian State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the number of houses, structures and projects recently destroyed in Area C, including some financed by the European Union or its Member States, is indeed of great concern. Our position on this is clear and has been reiterated in the joint communiqué I issued on 9 February with my colleague the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation Alexander De Croo. In this text, reference was made to the destruction of 2 February to which you refer, recalling that it affects a great deal of people, including vulnerable people like children, and urging the Israeli authorities to put an end to such destruction and to prevent any further demolition or confiscation. We also stressed the need for respect for international humanitarian law and unhindered access by local and international humanitarian organizations to vulnerable populations. These principles were also clearly reaffirmed in the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on 18 January. With regard to the question of compensation for destruction, I had indicated, after the demolition of the Khirbet al-Tawil project financed by Belgium, that it intended that any destruction should be compensated. I also pointed out that other Member States of the Union are in the same situation as we are. In order to tackle the problem structurally, this issue of compensation must be addressed first and foremost within a European framework. It is indeed a matter of ensuring the necessary unity of our position vis-à-vis Israel. Work is under way in this regard. Belgium is actively involved. Reacting to destruction and threats of destruction also requires dialogue and diplomatic action. As you know, a structured dialogue with the Israeli authorities has been initiated on this subject and is still under way in order to put an end to these destructions contrary to international law. I have mentioned them with the Israeli ambassador in Brussels, and I will have the opportunity to return to them during a visit to the region, which I have scheduled for the next few months. As for the recognition of Palestine as a State, you know the position of the Government, which I can repeat to you. Various points need to be taken into account in this process. I think, for example, of the positive impact it could have on reviving or supporting an inclusive political process of negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. I believe, for my part, that coordination between European countries would have more impact at the moment. We do not consider this to be the most opportune moment in that such recognition would not have a significant effect on the resumption of the peace process. We can come back, if you wish, next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u58	No, but you'll find something.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u59	I'll be out next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u60	I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u61	I'll be in Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u62	I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u63	Minister, I take note of your statement and the fact that, for the 2014 events in Khirbet al Tawil, you demanded compensation. I remember that you preferred to tackle this through joint action at European level. From the moment this does not evolve at European level, perhaps a Belgian track should be used to demand these compensations. As for your dialogue with the Israeli authorities, that does not prevent them from starting over again! I wonder to what extent this kind dialogue you hold so much with the Israeli authorities is enough to change their attitude. I am not asking you to send F-16s, but perhaps we will have to consider appropriate sanctions against that State, such as economic sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u64	Minister, my last question concerns American and NATO statements. The Secretary General of NATO declared on 2 February that he approved the proposal of the Secretary of State for American Defence to multiply by four American troops and armaments in Europe, in order to combat Russian aggression. He said: "We are strengthening our position in Europe to support our NATO allies in the face of Russia's aggression. In the official language of the Pentagon, we call it the European Reinsurance Initiative, and after spending about $800 million on it last year, we have more than quadrupled that amount to $3.4 billion this year. This will fund a lot of things: more rotations of troops to Europe, more training with our allies, more pre-positioned combat equipment and improved infrastructure to support them. And, once integrated with the American forces already based in Europe – which are also considerable – all this will allow us to form, at the end of 2017, a highly capable combined ground force, which will be able to retaliate in this theatre of operations, if necessary." Do you confirm all these figures? I don't think you'd confirm them, but I'm still asking you the question. What does the four-fold increase in US troops and armaments in Europe mean specifically for Belgium, and more specifically for NATO headquarters in Evere and for nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel? On which threat assessment is this plan based? What Russian aggression are we talking about? Do you also believe that Russia poses a short-term military threat to our country? Do you not consider these positions to be in contradiction with your political guidance note, including this passage: "Disarmament and non-proliferation are another central concern of our foreign policy. I will ensure that I support all credible and targeted actions – preferably within a European framework – that promote effective and balanced disarmament in the world, both for nuclear and conventional weapons."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u65	Mr Van Hees, at the NATO summit in Wales in 2014, the Heads of State and Government expressed their commitment to addressing the new security challenges on the Alliance's eastern side. This "Reactivity Action Plan", approved at the summit, contains a list of insurance and reinsurance measures which reinforce solidarity between allies in the face of aggressive behaviour and contrary to international law on the Russian side. With the annexation of Crimea, the destabilization of Ukraine and tensions in the Baltic and Black seas, Russia has challenged the very foundations of security architecture on the European continent. Our Baltic and Polish allies feel directly threatened. At the forthcoming Warsaw Summit in July 2016, Member States will look at the evaluation of the measures taken and look at the elements for a strategic perspective and longer-term adaptation measures. It is in this context that we must read the statements of Secretary Carter, which you mention. After downsizing in recent years, the Pentagon's proposed budget at this stage provides $3.4 billion for troop rotation, more prepositioned equipment and more training in Europe in 2017. These reinforcements do not directly concern Belgium but rather the Alliance's eastern flank. I stress that Belgium is actively participating in the reinsurance initiative through our efforts in the exercise programme provided for by the RAP, through our participation in the highly capable forces NRF and VJTF and through our regular engagement in the Baltic Air Policing in which Belgian F-16s participated. I also repeated at NATO meetings the renewed relevance of the Harmel doctrine. Robust deterrence and strengthening of solidarity within the Alliance should be accompanied by an openness to political dialogue with Russia's unsurpassed global partner. In this context, we await the Russian response to the offer of a new NATO-Russia meeting at ambassadorial level. Belgian diplomacy also continues our active support for risk reduction, de-escalation of tensions and measures of military transparency in NATO and OSCE fora. In my policy note, which you have read carefully, I had insisted on carrying out credible and targeted actions in the context of the development of tensions which have unfortunately reappeared on the eastern side of the European Union, even though conflicts are still taking place on the southern side of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am reassured to learn that Russia will not invade Belgium in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u68	You didn't say. I asked you what the threats were and it seems to me that you have heard that Belgium is not directly threatened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u70	You didn't say? I'll read the report again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u71	I have spoken of strengthening, but this is not about Belgium. U.S. troops will not come to strengthen our defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u72	In any case, I note the determination in this matter and the concrete measures that are being taken in terms of armaments. In my view, this contrasts quite well with what was said in the previous question. Indeed, despite Israel's clear violations of human rights, there is a calm dialogue with the Government of that country. In this case, strong measures are being taken. I do not think they are conducive to dialogue. It is clear that Russia's behaviour is aggressive. But NATO's behaviour is no less aggressive. Moreover, the measures taken are proof of this aggressiveness. I also note that NATO's expansion goes as far as Russia's borders, which Russia can see as a form of aggression. So we are in an overbidding of aggression that is reminiscent of the cold war. I am not sure that this kind of behaviour is adequate if we are to solve the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u73	Then it's up to the last question. This is a historic situation, Minister, because if you leave later, there will be no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u74	Mr President, Minister, since the signing last July of the international agreement on Iran's nuclear programme, the implementation of this agreement and the lifting of sanctions against Iran began in mid-January. Talks with the West are under way. Recently, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif visited the European Parliament for a debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on relations between Iran and the European Union, as well as on the security and humanitarian situation in the Middle East. This is a new era in which Iran has entered and this represents a new opportunity for companies, especially for Belgian exporting companies. However, for many countries and multinationals, the desire to create new economic opportunities in sectors such as oil and automobiles tends to put the dramatic human rights situation under Rohani's mandate in the background. I quote, as a reminder, the numerous death sentences, public executions and imprisonment for crimes of opinion and the prosecution of bloggers and journalists. But there is also Tehran's ambiguous position on the conflicts in the Middle East that have killed hundreds of thousands of people and driven millions of people out of their homes, leading to a massive influx of refugees into Europe. European Union-Iran relations should not improve at the expense of human rights in that country. Iranian President Hassan Rohani plans a state visit to Belgium at the end of March. This has yet to be confirmed. Minister, is the arrival of the Iranian President confirmed? If so, what is the planned program? What will be our government's position at this meeting, defended by our Prime Minister, on the new possibilities for economic relations with this country? Will the Rohani regime's violation of human rights be mentioned? The defence of fundamental human rights must remain paramount despite nuclear agreements. In view of this establishment of economic relations with Iran, what are the initiatives taken by the European Union and our Government to condition them with the demand for concrete progress in the field of human rights? Will the various international bodies put in place measures to condemn such executions as well? Finally, how will this new relationship with Iran influence our view of this country and its ambiguous position in the Syrian conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u75	Mijnheer de voorzitter, Mr Blanchart, first of all, the Iranian President's visit is not yet confirmed because we are trying to find a date that suits both sides. It is clear that the partial lifting of sanctions against Iran creates new opportunities for bilateral trade between Belgium and Iran. These opportunities will certainly be discussed during the talks that the Iranian President will have here in Belgium if his visit is confirmed. Belgian companies have already clearly indicated their interest in the Iranian market by participating in economic missions organized by the Chamber of Commerce and the relevant regional agencies. The federal government supports and facilitates regional and business approaches. I myself had the opportunity to mention this economic interest in my talks with my Iranian colleague, still very recently in Brussels. Like you, the human rights situation continues to be of concern to us. This situation will also be discussed in the talks with the Iranian President, as was the case at the other bilateral meetings I recently had, on 16 February, with my colleague Minister Zarif here in Brussels. During my visit to Tehran in early November, I raised, among other things, the issue of the death penalty, on which we engaged in a bilateral dialogue. I hope that a dialogue can also be organised with the European Union. I have, of course, also raised a number of individual cases, as you know, since I regularly remind you of them in response to questions. I share your concern about the human rights situation in Iran and I am also of the view that the promotion and protection of human rights remains paramount. I recall that the European Union has adopted sanctions because of the human rights situation, which have recently been renewed. I would also like to recall that the United Nations Human Rights Council appointed a Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran in 2011. As I said before, Belgium supported this designation. Every year, Belgium co-sponsored the Council resolution extending the mandate of the Special Rapporteur. In addition, Belgium participates annually in the interactive discussion with the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council. Last year, for example, Belgium addressed the issues of minimum standards on capital punishment and women's rights. Our country also reiterated its appeal to the Iranian authorities to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur and to allow him to visit the country. In addition, Belgium brought the human rights situation in Iran to the attention of the Human Rights Council during the debate under the agenda item "Situations requiring Council attention". In October 2014, our country made recommendations on the death penalty, the right to a fair trial and freedom of expression during Iran's universal periodic review. In December 2015, Belgium co-sponsored the resolution of the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly on the situation of human rights in Iran. This resolution deals extensively with the issue of the death penalty in Iran. I can assure you that Belgium addresses the subject of human rights systematically in bilateral contacts. As with all other countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral and European relations with Iran. I have also proposed that, in the context of bilateral political consultations between two countries, there should be specific meetings on the issue of the death penalty, which will also be held between the representatives of the two sides. With regard to Iran's role in Syria, I am pleased that Iran has joined the negotiating table within the framework of the international group set up to enable a political resolution of the Syrian conflict. I will continue to actively advocate for a constructive attitude by Iran that will allow progress towards the implementation of the ceasefire, initially, and a credible inclusive political transition for Syria, then. I hope that Iran will be able to play a positive role in a series of other conflict situations in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic348x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answers. More than 2,000 executions for the first two years only as head of government; I do not mention, for the first three quarters of 2015, the 800 people executed publicly. Public executions are somewhat his cup of tea and minors and women are mainly targeted by these heinous massacres. I have no doubt about Rohani's visit to Belgium. I really think that it really needs to be taken advantage of as a boon to eradicate Islamic fundamentalism in Iran and to condition the smooth running of diplomatic and commercial relations with Tehran in the light of fundamental human rights. The desire to improve the economy in Iran should not be used to organize repression within the country. We really need to pay attention to this problem and put a little pressure on this diplomatic visit to Belgium to put an end to all this, especially since these public executions are considered by Hassan Rohani as an expression of divine law. It's still very heavy.
