ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u1	Mr President, Mr Minister, this question was initially asked to Mrs Wilmès, in her capacity as Minister responsible for the National Lottery. Millions of gambling sites are flourishing on the Internet. Paris, casino roulettes, lotteries, there is no shortage of choice. On the occasion of the European Football Championship, we were drowned under the advertisements before, during and after the games. In Belgium, the National Lottery has a monopoly on lottery and gambling. But today we see that this monopoly is in danger. As regards games of chance and bets, the forms and general arrangements are laid down by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Committee on Games of Chance. The National Lottery scrupulously respects these modalities, which does not seem to be the case with gambling websites. Indeed, most gambling sites in the Belgian market use false advertising to attract players, at the expense of the National Lottery. These ads use a lot of ploys to attract customers. The logos used as well as the layouts closely resemble those of the National Lottery which can therefore mislead the players. There are advertisements showing that there are prints every five seconds, while the National Lottery is strictly forbidden to do so. There are games to pull (sometimes more than 700 on some sites) while the National Lottery offers only 23. In addition, many games are quite similar to those of the National Lottery: Astro for Lottery, Astrodice elsewhere, Roulette for Lottery, Roulette Lounge, Casino for others etc. This is an unfair competition between the National Lottery, which is supposed to have a monopoly on the games it markets, and these gambling websites offering the same games as the National Lottery. That is why I wanted to ask Mrs Wilmès this question. What measures are being taken to ensure that these sites cannot compete unfairly with the National Lottery, which is supposed to have a monopoly on games of chance and lottery in Belgium, since these games are identical to those offered on many websites?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u2	Mr Massin, article 37 of the Law of 19 April 2002 on the rationalisation of the operation and management of the National Lottery stipulates that anyone who transfers, acquires or offers for sale in violation of the regulations made pursuant to the Law any title of participation in the operations referred to in article 3, as well as any advantage relating to this title, shall be punished by a fine of 26 to 200 euros. For the online games of Belgian licence holders, the draft royal decrees have been notified to the European Commission and still have to be submitted to the Government in order to refer the matter to the Council of State. These notified royal decrees contain rules to better control and supervise games and websites operated by the regulated private market. These orders will be discussed in an intercabinet working group at the beginning of September. For illegal operators, one route is to place them on the blacklist which prohibits suppliers and site hosting companies from having access to the Belgian market. Since the law of 10 January 2010, there has been no complaint about this from the National Lottery which has reached the gambling commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am pleased to see that the government cares about the monopoly of its institution organizing games of chance, which is the National Lottery, especially since it is responsible for a significant social contribution. Beyond the fact that one can win, but also lose, there is a distribution of profits that is made in a very social or even societal way. Beyond the royal decrees in preparation which, I hope, will arrive as soon as possible and in the absence of complaints to the gambling commission, I will question Mrs Wilmès, since it is she who has the tutelage on the National Lottery. The Commission may wish to consider injunctions, but there would also be problems in identifying the location of websites. It may be appropriate to discuss with your European colleagues any arrangements to be made in this area, even if many of these sites are located in England. As England has decided to leave Europe, this might be a way to solve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u4	Mr President, Minister, as part of the games of chance, sites offering a whole series of things flourish on the Internet. As we know, the law prohibits a minor from registering on such sites and, of course, from playing. The gambling site requests registration on the site and, in this context, a national registry number is also required. I don't know if you're aware of this, but many websites offer fictitious national registry numbers for payment so that a minor can create a fake account to be able to register on gambling sites. After checking with me, I was told that the National Lottery questions the National Register to verify that the number actually exists. On the other hand, it seems that gambling sites check not the national registry number by questioning this registry but only the mathematical consistency of the number. They therefore do not question the National Register when they should do so to ensure the authenticity of the number and therefore the fact that the person is actually over 18 years of age. They use a program that, on the basis of algorithms, verifies the credibility of the national registry number. One comes to the situation where a minor with a fictitious national registry number can register on a gambling site and start playing. Mr Minister, could you therefore ask the Commission to take charge of this problem? I believe that it has the power of initiative in this regard. This is a relatively serious problem, it seems to me. In addition, would it not be appropriate, within the framework of the regulations, to oblige gambling websites to consult the National Register as requested by the National Lottery, before the registration of a person is taken into account? I believe that this would prevent minors from registering with false national registry numbers and from playing on these sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u5	Mr President, Mr Massin, the gambling commission has developed e-Game web services on the basis of surname, first name, date of birth. In order to check the identity of the players, it is necessary that the National Registry validate the data. At the moment, this validation is carried out in mass, four times a year. The complete file is sent to the National Register which controls it. Continuous validation (live) has not yet taken place, given the need to make fundamental adjustments to the existing computer programme. The gambling commission is fully engaged in this. In December 2015, it approved a business plan that is currently being implemented. At the same time, it is working on an opinion on a draft royal decree to establish clear rules for the identification of persons. To date, the competent public authorities have not authorised private operators to consult the National Register directly. A licensed operator operating a website has applied for access to the National Register. The Gambling Commission provided the Privacy Commission with all the information it requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u6	Minister, thank you. It is very good that a royal decree is being prepared again. People are particularly imaginative, especially when it comes to new technologies. On the other hand, I hope that deadlines can be proposed to the gambling commission in order to carry out these checks in flow. When files are sent in blocks, a person cannot pass through, of course, but in two or three months, a situation can become largely catastrophic. It may not be for the child who uses a false national registry number. On the other hand, it is especially true for parents because their credit card is beautiful and true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u7	A few months ago, on behalf of my group, I tabled a bill calling for an end to the declaration of protection of nationality. The initiative was also welcomed by many actors, including the Federal Ombudsman, since in his last report he also welcomed the need to abolish this obligation. Even your colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was in favour of this proposal, which will save not only time, but also money. Despite this, the bill was not passed and was referred to a working group. I asked Minister Reynders again last week about the status of this working group and Mr. Reynders sent me back to you, since it is obviously you who are leading this working group. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Can you give me more details on the latest developments in this dossier, on the results of this working group? And since I have never had the opportunity to ask you live, can you tell me what you think of this proposal to delete the declaration of nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u8	Mr Crusnière, as you know, both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on External Relations have rejected the proposal to delete the protective declaration of nationality provided for in paragraph 5 of Article 22(1) of the Belgian Nationality Code. In the course of the debate, I myself argued that this provision should be retained on the grounds that it is in line with the spirit of the new law, which is strongly focused on demonstrating the links with Belgium through the concept of integration. Nevertheless, and in the wake of the discussions which took place in the committees and in view of the difficulties faced by Belgian expatriates with regard to the preservation of nationality, a reflection was initiated on a possible simplification of the modes of expression of the will to remain Belgian. To this end, a working group has been set up involving representatives of the Justice and Foreign Affairs FPS. Two meetings have already been held. The working group is currently analysing the various possible ways of expressing the will to remain Belgian, in particular in order to check whether they offer sufficient guarantees of certainty of date. I will take the necessary steps to make progress on this issue as soon as the conclusions of the working group are communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u9	I thank the Minister for his answers and will continue to ask him regularly about the follow-up to this working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u10	Pursuant to the Act of 31 May 2016 amending the Act of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures to assist victims of intentional acts of violence, assistance to victims of terrorism has been substantially amended. The conditions for obtaining this aid have been eased. Article 31bis of the Act of 1 August 1985 on tax and other measures concerning assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence provides that, in order to obtain assistance from the pro commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence and occasional rescuers, the act of violence must have been committed in Belgium. Unless I am mistaken, this condition has not been changed. Minister, can you confirm to me that the statement in this communiqué is correct and that the territoriality requirement will be lifted for the victims of an act of terrorism? I suppose that will then be done by means of a royal decree. Can you indicate how the terrorist act committed abroad will be recognized as a terrorist act? Does this change respond to a large number of requests for aid, and have they been met?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u11	Mr President, if the facts take place outside the Belgian territory, Article 31a (1) and Article 31a (2) of the Law of 1 August 1985 on tax and other provisions now exclude financial intervention by the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. The possibility of granting financial aid to victims of terrorism committed abroad will be regulated by a royal decree implementing Article 42a of the aforementioned Act of 1 August 1985. The Royal Decree will change this and aims to enable Belgians or persons habitually resident in Belgium who are victims of acts of terrorism committed abroad to claim financial compensation. The condition is that the victim has Belgian nationality or habitual residence in Belgium at the time of the act of terrorism. Article 42a of the abovementioned Act of 1 August 1985 states that Belgians and persons habitually resident in Belgium who are victims of acts of terrorism committed abroad may apply to the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. Acts of terrorism will be recognised by another royal decree as acts of terrorism, after which the victim may, within three years of the publication of this royal decree, make a request for recognition to obtain assistance from the Financial Aid Commission to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. These royal decrees are currently being prepared. Then I come to your third question. To date, very few victims have contacted the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors by telephone or e-mail for acts of terrorism committed abroad. The Commission was strongly questioned for the attacks of 22 March 2016 in Brussels. I apologize for reading this answer in Dutch. Next time, I won't make that mistake again. A thousand apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u12	Thank you for your answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u13	Minister, Unicef has been fighting child marriages for a long time. That is also only logical because everyone who marries should do so in full freedom and with full conviction. This also requires maturity and therefore adulthood. In our country, child marriages are forbidden anyway. When a child's marriage is concluded in another country and it is reported here in our country, then it is verified that the marriage is not contrary to international public policy. Very often, therefore, child marriages are fortunately not recognised in our country. I recently submitted to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe a proposal which was accepted almost unanimously to put the fight against child marriages in all those countries more on the political agenda. Although it is forbidden in our country, we are more confronted with it than before. This is the result of the refugee crisis that was particularly there last year and the consequences of which we are still seeing in our reception centres. In April there were 24 child brides in the shelters. Often the couples are separated or separated, especially when it comes to very young children. Sometimes that doesn't happen, for example when one sees that it's someone who's just underage, there's no big age difference with the partner and there's an affective bond and so on. In some cases, therefore, the partners are not separated from each other if it is established that there may indeed be a marriage for which even the minor would have consented. Minister, child marriages require first and foremost detection and then cooperation between the foreign services on the one hand and the judiciary on the other. How is this reported from the shelters or dome, namely Fedasil, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless or the Foreign Affairs Service when they are confronted with it? How do they correctly pass that on to the parquets? Is there a particular procedure that needs to be followed? How exactly does that happen? Are there any guidelines for civil servants when such a couple comes to overwrite a marriage and therefore calls for the recognition of such a marriage as has been concluded abroad? In what cases is that refused in the first place? In what circumstances do people allow it? Do you have any figures on the number of reports of child marriages in recent years? How many of these reported marriages were finally refused and how many have been recognised? In recent years have there been judgments in appeals against the refusal of recognition of a child's marriage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, as regards your question regarding the arrangements between the reception centres, Fedasil, the CGVS or the Foreign Affairs Office and the prosecutors' offices, I have asked the judicial authorities, in particular the College of Attorneys General. The College is not aware of any contact between the public prosecutors and any of the departments mentioned. Civil status officials should take into account the rules of private international law when recognising foreign marriages of minors. Like all other Belgian authorities, civil servants can in principle recognise a foreign marriage certificate without any judicial intervention. This is about the so-called plano recognition. If the civil servant refuses to recognise the foreign marriage certificate, recognition may be sought from the family court. This is then done in accordance with Article 27 of the IPR Code, combined with Article 23 of the same Code. In order for a foreign marriage certificate to have effect in the Belgian legal order, it must be subject to strict control and must comply with the following conditions. The authenticity of the deed must be checked. The instrument must be valid in accordance with applicable law. Nor should there be any law evasion or conflict with public policy. As far as the legal validity of the instrument is concerned, the basic and formal conditions of marriage must be taken into account. The conditions of form shall be determined by the law of the State in whose territory the marriage takes place. The basic conditions of marriage, on the other hand, are determined by the national law of each of the spouses. Consequently, a marriage between, for example, a minor Syrian child and an adult Syrian man will be governed by Syrian law. This rule applies just as much as the two Syrians marry in Belgium. In this case, the civil servant will also have to apply Syrian law. I would point out that under Belgian law minors can also marry if they are authorised by the family court. In addition, the parents must also give their consent. If they refuse to do so, the family court may authorise the marriage if it considers the parents' refusal to do so to be an abuse. This is also important in the assessment. The objection of international public order, provided for in Article 21 of the IPR Code, allows non-recognition of such marriages with a child carried out abroad, or non-application of such foreign law in Belgium if this is considered contrary to our fundamental values. The Court of Cassation, in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of 18 June 2007, means the principles essential to the moral, political and economic order of Belgium. This does not mean that any foreign marriage with a minor child cannot be recognised and the application of the objection of public policy requires an important balance of interest in concrete terms which is different for each case. The assessment shall take into account in particular the extent to which the case is linked to the Belgian legal order and the gravity of the consequences that the application of foreign law would entail. In addition, certain effects of a marriage, which is valid abroad but contrary to international public policy, may be recognised in Belgium, for example, effects on children born of marriage. In addition to these general rules of private international law, there are no specific directives for civil servants, in particular in view of the in-concreto balance which must be achieved and which is always different in such cases. Finally, I can inform you that my services do not have specific figures on the number of denied recognition of foreign marriages with minors by the Belgian courts. Neither does the College of Attorneys-General have any statistics on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u15	Do you also have an answer to my last question, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u16	I think I have told you that I do not have specific figures. To your question about the judgments at the disposal of appeals against the refusal of recognition of child marriage, I think I have answered as best as I can. I have not yet received an answer. I'll get it to you as soon as I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer you have already given. With the refugee crisis we see an increase in the number of child marriages. It is important that figures are collected in this respect. Perhaps the College of Attorney General could be asked to do so in future. Measuring is knowing. Then one can see how big the problem is and what one can possibly do. I hope you share that view and that you will convey it. I am also concerned that there is no cooperation yet between the DVZ, the CGVS, Fedasil and the parquets. It happens that, knowing that a child's marriage will not be recognized after all, it is not reported and bypassed, but in the meantime one remains married and sees that minor as his wife. In such situations, the best interests of the child must be placed first. A complaint should be made to the public prosecutor when it comes to a minor. It is necessary to examine whether this is a marriage involving an infringement of international public policy. I hope that you will be able to ensure cooperation between the asylum authorities and your services because we are facing this recently. I hope that's what I'm counting on. I will ask you again about this later. I also hope that I will have an answer to the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic480x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert's 13085 was converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 13106 and 13109 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into written questions.
