ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u2	The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government statement. The next item is the vote on the motion of confidence tabled by the Prime Minister following the government's statement. I shall put this motion to the vote. I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u3	Mr President, on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u4	Mrs Pas, no, we need explanations of vote. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u5	Mr President, you ignored me when I asked to speak in the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u6	As I said, I am now giving you the floor for an explanation of vote. The debate is closed. Mr Carcaci has the floor for his explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u7	Mr President, I would like to give a word of explanation before the vote. I would like to address the Prime Minister. Repeating untruths doesn't make them truths. Mr Michel, you are not the prime minister of all Belgians. Your budget is in line with your attitude yesterday, derogating for the citizen. So I will not vote for trust, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u8	Thank you. Anyone else want the floor for an explanation of vote? Mrs Pas, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u9	Mr President, what we saw here yesterday was a very sad spectacle. Apparently, there's no deal to be made with you. I will come back to that at another time, because you are now obliging me to devote my limited speaking time to the coalition agreement. Mr President, Prime Minister, it was already a government of Community standstill, but now it is also a government of standstill in structural dossiers. The jobs, jobs, jobs you want to make flourish will only be those of the suppliers of the refrigerators in the Wetstraat. You say that you want to create a business-friendly environment, but you do not do so by delaying a reduction in corporate tax or by increasing the withholding tax again. There is no mention of the Community in your policy statement, not even one sentence like last year, when you said that the federal loyalty should be honored. This Community omerta has been applied with amazing ease by the N-VA in such a way that a reminder this year was no longer necessary. The only force of change I heard in the debates was when an N-VA colleague yesterday said that suddenly tax money can be used for the ARCO deal. Everyone here is talking about fiscal justice. With regard to ARCO, the only fiscally fair solution that the ACW is paying for what it itself has caused and not the taxpayer. A government that thinks it can reform socio-economically without institutional reforms, which allows transfers to grow, which is stuck in symbolic dossiers and does not think about the long term, a government that, in a country where 20% of Muslims claim to understand IS, dares not call it Islam terror, a government that continues to pump critically billions into the European Union and slavishly implements the wir-wine of the European Union's das-asylum policy, which also costs billions, a government...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u10	You have to finish, Mrs. Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u11	Mr President, I can finish my sentence. A government that continues a blackmail deal with Turkey, is pursuing a policy of handing out cash to the refugees in Turkey, who do not oppose a European Union, wants to develop practical solutions to achieve visa liberalisation for almost 80 million Turks as soon as possible, a government in which every trust between the government parties is gone, such a government is not worth gaining Parliament's trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u12	Mr President, I would like to remind you of the sad spectacle you showed last night, showing clearly that you are not the chairman of all the Members of Parliament, but of those of the majority, from whom you apparently received signals to silence some of the opposition. That is scandalous and regrettable. The same applies to the media spectacle you have performed here on Sunday, at the time when the television programme 'De Seventhe Dag', Les Décodeurs and Cūst pas tous les jours dimanche were broadcast. After the media spectacle you organized here yesterday at the time that RTL, VRT and VTM cameras were here and after the shameful way in which you muzzled some of the opposition, we cannot be expected for obvious reasons to give any support to a government that is taking such measures. We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not going to talk about the form, because it was discussed in detail yesterday, but about the content. We have had lively debates on it, for which I would like to thank my fellow Members from the majority and the opposition. A number of agreements have emerged as a major support for an investment pact, preferably as of tomorrow. There is our invitation to cooperate and broad support for the security of our citizens. There are also sharp differences of opinion. This majority revolves the budgetary effort on ordinary people, on people who are having a hard time. There is a strong voice here in Parliament, but also outside, to do so in a completely different way, with a fair contribution from the greatest abilities and the strongest shoulders. I have already noticed, Prime Minister, that the protest against this budget does not only resound in this House, but also outside it. These lively debates over the last twenty-four hours are just the beginning of an exciting political and social year, in which the call for justice will be louder and louder. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we have already mentioned the end of this month in our agenda. I also address you, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. As I said yesterday in the Chamber, there is the important yard on fiscal justice. There is CD&V's concrete proposal, which, however imperfect, is an important political lever. If Mr Cd&V's colleagues do not submit this proposal themselves and if this majority does not speed up fiscal justice itself, then we will present that proposal at the end of this month, because this country deserves a fair contribution from the greatest assets. I would like to thank everyone for this debate and I promise you that it will certainly not be the last on the future of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u14	Mr President, we sent you a letter half an hour ago. I hope that in the future there will be no short-circuiting like the one we experienced yesterday. We didn't allow all the parties to speak. When the Prime Minister spoke, he was unable to respond to the excellent arguments that we would have put forward. The democratic right to speak for all parties is linked to this. The signal you gave yesterday, which people are getting more and more tired of, is to say that we don't care about the voices of small parties. Go on like this and the little party will grow big! Yesterday we had the opportunity to explain in the debates why the PTB did not agree with these anti-social measures: more flexibility, hunting for long-term patients, people facing ever more problems to tie up the two ends. The worst thing of all is that all the measures you take are not a solution. Today we see that the European continent is the one on which growth does not return. The same recipes have been applied for ten years, and the crisis continues to deepen. So, not only are your measures antisocial, but they don't work economically. The observers who are taking a step backwards are wondering what Europe is doing by imposing austerity and making people pay more and more. They therefore consume less and less, so that the economy stagnates. We say this clearly today: we must activate the great fortunes where they are instead of activating the long-term sick and the unemployed. Go take this money from the great fortunes and reinject it into our economy! This is not the option adopted by the government. That is why the PTB will vote against this motion of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have come to ask for confidence in the Chamber and as a sp.a we find that a bit strange because you do not even have the confidence in your own government. It is because of the division in your own government that there will be no fair contribution from the great powers. Your slogan after the press conference was: "We don't touch consumers." We don't touch the patients. We don't touch the employees. Your words were not yet cold, or I had to conclude that you are touching the patients, touching the consumers and touching the workers. As long as you don't solve the division in your own government, our party won't give you the confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u16	Mr. President, Prime Minister, we lived a month of September that was particularly black for our economy. Belgium is also doing less well socio-economically than neighbouring countries. We expected a strong momentum from your government, accompanied by measures to rebalance taxation, measures for SMEs, measures to mobilize savings towards the economy. We were also expecting a national investment plan already reflected in the budget. This investment plan would have included a mobility component - with the RER - a pact for the energy transition - with innovation -, digital and health. That is what we expected from your government. This dynamic is vital to be alongside workers, entrepreneurs, the merchant sector and the non-market sector. It is necessary to be on the side of the researchers, because they are the ones who will bring us prosperity tomorrow. They are the ones who are working on a daily basis to correct Belgium. We were waiting for breath, and your only answer was to postpone. On the other hand, let me call the health alarm. No, your measures are not anodizing; they are harmful to the sick, to hospitals, to health actors, from home to hospital. I will repeat this as often as necessary. In relation to this, let me quote François Jacob: "Nothing is more dangerous than the certainty of being right." When it comes to health, get together, review your copy! I will end by paraphrasing Saint-Exupéry: we must make the future possible with the citizens, not against the citizens. We will not therefore vote on this motion of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, after more than 16 hours of discussion, this is a crazy fact. First of all, you have a budget that doesn't keep up. You don't control the debt. You don't control inflation. Because of your austerity policy, we have become Europe's bad students in terms of growth rates and employment rates. But above all, you are embarking on reforms that show that, for you, work may be important, but not the workers. We took their index finger and now we're scrambling their wages. We make them work more to earn less. For you, workers are only flexible statistics, not men and women who deserve respect and dignity. More than that, you are making a budget that will hit on social security and especially on sick people. That's disgusting! You're asking for confidence. For the PS, it will be "no" but a "no" of conviction!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would otherwise be a bit monotonous. Prime Minister, my group is going to give you the confidence. We're gonna do that with conviction. I raised the arguments for this yesterday in the debate. However, I also have a bit of a resentment, because in a mature democracy, in a good parliamentary democracy, it is of course good that the government makes its choice and defends that choice for Parliament. Where are we going to save, where are the budgetary targets, what are the taxes, what are not? These are choices that we are making and for which the government, with the Prime Minister in the lead, but also the majority parties in Parliament yesterday, gave their arguments to the best. Mr President, in an adult democracy, it would also be good if the opposition, united if it can, divided if it has to, also gave its arguments as to why it is against, but also offered alternatives. It is not enough to say that one does not agree with the objective. It is not enough to say no to certain taxes. Mr Vanvelthoven, it is not enough to say that you do not agree with these savings. If you are an adult opposition, if you are a mature opposition, then you also have the courage to offer alternatives. Actually, that's the big flaw. We hear what we can't do all the time. What should be, Mrs Temmerman, we have not heard at all. There are, of course, Anglo-Saxon countries, and I am thinking of the United Kingdom, where there is a shadow cabinet that perfectly apart from the draft budget of the majority presents a draft budget of the opposition and says: that saving is, that saving is not. The only thing people say here is: make the rich pay for the crisis. Well, Mr Calvo, I actually found it touching. You were on television last week next to Mr Coucke, a wealthy man, and you were watching Mr Coucke in beate admiration. Mr Coucke put a little on his chair, because you were almost sitting on his lap. That was the image I had of you. What was Mr Coucke thinking? Barking bitches don't bite. That's what Mr Coucke thought. I saw him think so. So if you think you're gonna take over the CD&V plan, which is 80 million...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u19	Finish, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u20	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Just a few more sentences. Are you serious about generating these 80 million billions from the rich, Mr Calvo? The truth, Mr Calvo, is that your plan to make the rich pay (...) (The micro was turned off)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u21	Mr Calvo has the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u22	Mr Dewael, the re-laundering was a pleasure. There is a great misconception at the basis of your statement. Our group and also many people in the opposition are talking to entrepreneurs and to people who are good, but also to people who are having a hard time. That is the problem of this majority. She doesn't talk to people who are having a hard time, she leaves those people in the lurch, she lets those people pay the bills. And so, Mr Verherstraeten, the relevance of my speech and of my ultimatum has only become more important after Mr Dewael's speech, because what did he actually say? He said that no hair on his liberal head is thinking about making the strongest shoulders contribute. That is what Mr Dewael said. This only shows why the opposition's work is incredibly important, including alternatives and solutions. You can say it a few more times here, but we will continue to fight for it. The invitation remains open, therefore, Mr Verherstraeten, to deal with the social and political majority that exists, in fact, with Mr Dewael's social and political isolation and to deal with that broad call for justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u23	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all colleagues for the debate we had yesterday (more than 15 hours) in the presence of the Prime Minister. Of course, the exchanges have sometimes been lively. Mrs Onkelinx, we have not been able to find a number of points of agreement on the government's plans, those we have defended in terms of the purchasing power – confirmed – of companies and competitiveness that we will continue to support, with this majority and this government. The debate was long. He has opposed us very frankly, sometimes with this zest of quasi-violence, which has made it very stingy at times, as we have been used to for two years. But I also want to retain the elements that are changing in relation to the debates we have had over the past two years, namely, points of convergence. Mr Calvo alluded to it. We even had it with you, Mrs. Onkelinx. It was a great moment. While I have been in the gallery for almost an hour and a half, you have indicated that indeed the tax shift, the action of the purchasing power of this government is equivalent to an additional 80 euros, and that it is not so bad. Mrs Fonck, we have also had interesting exchanges with regard to what must be the political action of a government to support businesses. Mr President, I also want to retain these elements of the debate, these interesting elements which, despite our oppositions, mark points of convergence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a very good debate. We discussed savings. We discussed tax contributions. Everyone has their views on that. Ours is that the budget agreement and the Prime Minister's declaration of government are balanced, with fairly divided efforts and with reasonable taxes aimed primarily at people with capital income. Those measures are fairly divided. Prime Minister, your government, and that from the start, is aiming for economic growth with social justice. You've done a lot of recruiting. We've still got yards ahead of us. You also mentioned this yesterday: to stimulate the economy, to strengthen fiscal justice. On that path we continue. We give you the confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u25	Prime Minister, yesterday you were accused of looking for the media by responding to the comments made by several speakers. That was a rather peculiar reproach from the lips of opposition members, and we have also seen Mr Calvo doing his utmost to stay out of the media today. I hope he can do it. This time I do disagree with Mr Dewael when he says that no proposals have been made by the opposition with an impact on the budget. Because they were done. The deficit would increase rapidly by one billion if we accepted all the opposition's proposals. [[Objections to the banks of the opposition]] That will be at least 5 billion with your help. Mr President, I therefore propose that the debate be concluded, because it is getting worse and worse. The more statements by the opposition, the bigger the gap in the budget. Our group has been anxiously waiting for the proposals. I have seen that yesterday's debates have already been printed. Anyone can learn about it at the entrance to the hemisphere. I've read the report. Mr Calvo, you have been brilliantly absent in giving us alternatives. Mrs Kitir, too, unfortunately, has failed to do so, and that is why we are forced with great enthusiasm to approve the government's policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u26	We're going to vote on the motion of confidence. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote (Vote/vote 1) Yes 81 Yes No 62 No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 143 Total The motion of confidence has been adopted. The motion of confidence was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-18-54-plenair-ip135x.u27	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 20 October 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
