ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u1	Madam Minister, my question dates back a while, so in the meantime some things may have become clearer, but I would still like to ask them. For long-term sick people, the sickness benefit of 60% of the last wage is still calculated on the basis of the last month. Last summer, the government decided that this will take place from 2016 on the basis of the last 12 months. That became clear at the end of last year. The Socialist sickness fund calculated after the decision that this would lead to a lower benefit for long-term patients. A person with a former gross income of 2 600 euros should return 20 to 45 euros per month, up to 540 euros per year. I have a few questions about this. Will the new method of calculation based on the last 12 months apply to all new cases from 1 January or will the benefits of people who have been ill for a long time before that date also be adjusted? How will the benefit be calculated for people who have not worked a full year before they become long-term ill? Is that calculated proportionally? I understand from media reports that the new method of calculation is a saving measure and that the government hopes to save 74 million. Is that right? What figures does the government base itself on to get to the 74 million? In other words, how much less will the average long-term sick person get as a benefit as a result of the measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u2	Mrs Willaert, the social policy section of the coalition agreement states: "The amount of invalidity benefit will be calculated on the basis of the reference period of 12 months." Now the amount is calculated on the basis of the last day's wage. This is a very short reference period, which can lead to distortions in one way or another. It is therefore better to calculate benefits on average wages over a long period of time. A current short reference period is more susceptible to fraud. An identical measure has been taken for unemployment benefits. The point of view is twofold. On the one hand, the aim is to combat social fraud, because at the moment the calculation basis is not the last monthly wage, as you say, but the last day's wage, multiplied by 26. The employer may, by mistake or willfully, indicate a higher last day's wage, but also a lower one. This data is not a priori placed next to the data of the electric current, which reach the sickness fund via the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. On the other hand, there is also a social objective. If the last day's wage is abnormally low compared to the wage normally earned by the person concerned, the amount of the benefit shall be paid on a sounder wage basis by taking into account the wage paid over the 12-month reference period. In order to correct this situation, a new calculation basis will indeed form the basis of the benefits in the course of 2016. After thorough consultation with the implementing institutions, it has been found that this is actually a large-scale change in the systems, in particular in the software. We do not fix ourselves on a given date but prefer that this implementation is carried out correctly and can also be carried out by the institutions. I will also continue to examine and monitor this implementation with my colleague. In any case, the new method of calculation will apply only to new cases. For people already receiving disability benefits for the entry into force of the new method of calculation, nothing will change. The amount of EUR 74 million to which you refer comes from a calculation made by a sickness fund, mentioned by you. However, this figure is not correct. Nor do we know how this was done. The calculation proposed by the government is based on savings of EUR 7 million in 2016. This is an estimate of the RIZIV, although if the scheme had entered into force on 1 January. For persons with an incomplete career or with interruptions in their professional history, a proportional calculation shall be applied as appropriate or a scaling-up shall be made. It is also possible that a different period will be used for them. There is therefore no point in calculating per long-term sick person, although of course one can always try to do so. It's not really meant to be a saving measure either. This amounts to EUR 7 million per year. It's what it is, but it's not the most massive saving action of all time. It is also better for those who have too low a final reference fee. In particular, it is a measure designed to prevent false or false declarations in the context of avoiding social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u3	Madam Secretary, you have answered all my questions. I ask this question because I received a number of e-mails from people who were already ill before the measure was announced and were uncertain about what would happen to their benefit. I will therefore be able to reassure these people that this measure will only apply from this year on. I understand that the preparation of this new method of calculation is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u4	Mrs. Jadin is not here. Her question No. 6946 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u5	Madam Secretary, the carers are one of my key themes. I've already e-mailed it to your cabinet staff. Come on against Kanker released a very interesting report on carers a while ago. There are a number of problems of caregivers in dealing with cancer patients. It also contains 14 recommendations for an integrated family care policy. I have already asked several questions, including to other fellow Members, including Minister Peeters and Prime Minister Michel, about the social rights of carers. I found the answers vague and inadequate. This government stands for activation and job protection and creation. At the same time, this government states that it is opting for a solidarity approach. This is not reflected in the measures to support carers, especially when it comes to building their social rights. That's why I have some questions for you. Where do you stand with the cross-cutting consultation on carers? You have announced that you would discuss this with the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Ministers of Welfare, Health and Family, and possibly from Work. Can you give us an update on this? What do you think of the recommendations of Kom op tegen Kanker? Which of these recommendations would you like to follow and take with you? You'll find them in the question. I won't read them all. It is quite clear that there are a number of recommendations about better communication with the caregiver, better route guidance, a free home visit, a separate conversation with carers, etc. There are also many directives for professional care providers who are currently not sufficiently aware of how to provide support to carers. Will you, together with your colleague Minister of Work, also extend the time-limits of leave arrangements for professional carers and make them more flexible, as Kom op op tegen Kanker recommends and asks? My final question concerns the draft law on the building up of social rights for carers, which I have submitted myself. I would like to know what you think of this and whether you are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u6	Mrs. Dedry, you just said I announced a meeting. In a committee on health in November or December, I was asked to report on everything that was put into protocol agreements and agreements through the Ministerial Conference. This was one of them. I believe you were not present at the time. You can certainly find the report on this. I read the report on Kom op Tegen Kanker, of course. There was also consultation in my cabinet with this organisation on the fourteen excellent policy recommendations they had listed in the back of the report. The theme Mantelzorg was the subject of several working groups within the government during the last year. I would like to repeat my policy paper which states that we consider the role of carers to be important over the next few years. Given the growing demand for care, fed by the ageing population, current supply cannot follow. Other factors such as children or parents who are still working also play a role. Not only the federal government but also the sub-areas are responsible for the care and supervision of people in need of care. Therefore, on 19 October 2015, my plan Integrated Care for Chronic Diseases was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, the meeting of the federal government with the region's regions. This means that the necessary processes must be developed in the implementation of the care that surrounds patients. These processes take account of the situation of carers. As part of the same plan, I have placed the problem of cancer patients at a prominent place. The route guidance with the oncology services is an important point, as is the other points you mention. This calls for a paradigmashift, from disease-oriented care to care that departs from the patient's abilities and goals. So one really starts from the patient's personal question, not just directed by disease and by discipline. It's about the demand for care. What care does the patient require? It's not always the same. Two people with the same disease don't have the same demand for care. In this way, a fragmentation of care should be avoided. A second part is the protection of the caregiver in his activities. A first step that we have examined is the launch of a possible recognition of the caregivers who must make efforts. This would be a first step in the granting of social rights to carers. It is often necessary to obtain the authorization of an advisory physician, every time one cares about another patient. If one is recognized as a caregiver, one could go from one patient to another in the course of the journey. It happens. It is not always the case that one stays with one and the same patient. Together with the Minister for Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine, we are launching ideas and working out them on the pension section of the social status. There has also been a wide-ranging consultation with the actors involved. Advice was sought from a number of bodies active in the domain. By this we mean insurance institutions, family carers' associations and associations for persons with a serious illness and with an orphan's disease. We must ensure that the initiatives we take at federal level are consistent with the systems that already exist at other levels. Then you will know that there are already many possibilities in the legislation, for example with regard to unemployment. Many initiatives for carers have also been taken in the Communities and in some cities or municipalities. The intention is to take a number of clear measures. The plan was approved. This must now be further developed in consultation with the Communities. You know that the implementation of this plan will continue. There is little coherence. Now there have been ad hoc initiatives. The intention is to come up with an integrated plan for family care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer. In a number of respects, I follow you, especially in what you say about the complexity and the different dynamics in the Länder, where there is a very large household care plan in Flanders, while the dynamics in Wallonia and Brussels are still different. In any case, I hear that this is a priority for you and that you will continue to promote it. However, I have not heard you say anything about the building up of social rights and what you think about the legislative proposal that we have put forward for it, or about raising the time limits for leave arrangements as requested by Kom op versus Cancer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u8	Madam Secretary, in the Committee on Business, I am very much concerned with insurance files. Since this is an accident insurance scheme, I will, of course, come to you. The longer the employees are able to work from home, in full or in part, occasionally or arranged. I believe that is a good thing. The numbers are constantly rising. A calculation shows that about 720 000 people have already done work at home at least once and most of them regularly. This, of course, offers many advantages in our society. The employee does not need to be in traffic, loses no time in traffic and has a better balance between work and family. At the same time, he or she can often work much more efficiently for his employer. There is therefore a whole range of advantages associated with teleworking. In particular, with regard to accident insurance, each employee is, of course, insured by compulsory accident insurance. In principle, he is insured on his way to and from work and at the workplace itself. So the question arises as to whether working from home is an accident at work or a private accident. Does the employer in question have sufficient insurance for that work at home? Because of the ever increasing number of home workers, this is of course not an insignificant question. I would therefore like to know from you whether employers are obliged to adapt their policy on accidents at work to the fact that their workers are also working from home. Is the Labour Inspectorate checking, too? Are there any figures on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u9	Mr Klaps, every employer is obliged, in accordance with Article 49 of the Accidents at Work Act of 10 April 1971, to close a policy on accidents at work with an approved occupational accident insurance company. The policy covers both occupational risks and on the way to and from work. Article 7 of that law states that for the purpose of applying the law as an accident at work, since any accident occurring to the worker during and through the performance of the contract of employment causes injury. The accident occurring during the execution of the contract shall be deemed to result from the execution of that agreement unless proof is provided. In order to simplify the burden of proof for teleworkers, an additional paragraph was introduced. In particular, it is a question of the accident being dealt with by a teleworker, subject to proof of opposition, linked to the performance of the contract of employment. This means, firstly, that the accident occurs at the place or places chosen in writing by the teleworker as the place to carry out the work. The telework can indeed be done at home, in satellite locations or in an office. Secondly, this means that the accident occurs during the period of the day agreed in writing as the period during which work can be carried out. In the absence of such a mention in the written agreement, the presumption will apply during the working hours which the teleworker would have to perform if he was employed in the employer's premises. You will find this in the amended law of 6 May 2009, Article 58, which entered into force on 29 May 2009. If you fall off your stairs at three o'clock in the morning, this will probably not be accepted, given the time, even though you worked at home that day. Employers with teleworkers are not obliged to adjust their policy accidents at work. However, in order to reduce the burden of proof in the event of a homework accident, it is best to comply with the provisions of collective agreement No. 85a the working arrangements relating to telework are mentioned in writing in the contract of employment. It may also be advisable to inform the insurance institution of the fact that telework is also organised as an employer. The fact is that declarations are not easy, so they are better prepared. I am not responsible for controls on the content of contracts of employment. These are part of the tasks of the FOD WASO and therefore fall within the competence of the Minister of Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the clear answer. We must continue to look for a balance between numerous administrative obligations - there are already so many for employers - and clarity. When it comes to the right time when the employee would be at work, you say that there is a suspicion that it is indeed about an accident at work. That is a good thing. However, we could perhaps call on the insurance sector to include this as a standard clause in a policy, with the question whether telework is being carried out by the company. We shouldn't leave it to a company to indicate that specifically. I'll work that out even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u11	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to apologize for the difficult wording of the title of the question. I had to look at it three times. This question is therefore not a political question but rather a technical question arising from my local mandate. We were reminded that the Department for Special Social Security Systems, DIBISS, has an exclusive agreement for direct debits with only one financial institution, Belfius. We have asked the service why this is so and it gives two reasons. Firstly, this has grown historically because of the links between the former City Credit, now Belfius, and the local authorities. Secondly, opening up to other financial institutions would entail a large investment cost. According to our own information, this accountability is not really correct, because local authorities also work with open direct debit systems and that does not cost any more and that exclusivity is not based on any legal basis and is a bit contrary to municipal autonomy. What are the relevant guidelines for public services and DIBISS in particular? Does this result from the law on public procurement or from European legislation? Do you see any other reason for maintaining this exclusivity? If not, what initiatives will you take to end that exclusivity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u12	Mr President, Mr Spooren, I know that there are no guidelines for federal administrations regarding the provision of certain facilities, such as direct debits, in the context of payments to be made to these services. As you rightly point out, the privileged cooperation between DIBISS and Belfius has grown historically due to the close links between local authorities and the former Belgian City Credit, now Belfius Bank, still acting as a home banker for the vast majority of these administrations. Extending the direct debit facilities offered by DIBISS exclusively through Belfius Bank to other financial institutions does indeed require an adjustment in the DIBISS system to manage and monitor the payments made by its affiliated employers. In order to achieve these openings, changes should be made to the accounting flows and computer applications of the DIBISS. These technical and organisational adjustments are not in themselves a valid reason for maintaining the exclusivity with Belfius Bank. Consequently, in the future, local government direct debit facilities will also be extended to other banks. However, we are faced with the dissolution of the DIBISS on January 1, 2017. As a result, it is no longer possible or justified to make such major adjustments to the system in 2016 and the associated costs of developing and implementing a new open direct debit system. In the context of the integration of DIBISS into the RSZ on 1 January 2017, the issue of the exclusivity of direct debit via Belfius Bank will be part of a more comprehensive analysis to be carried out on the operational processes and activities of both institutions, with a view to harmonisation. This will take into account how and in what way the financial processes of both institutions will be harmonised, including the payment facilities to be offered to employers. We have yet to begin this analysis. I cannot tell you exactly when this will happen, but it is being worked on. The aim is therefore also to open up the direct debit system to all financial institutions and not to retain an exclusivity contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for this clear and very satisfactory answer. Indeed, one year will not come, it is important that we move in the right direction. I will give this answer to our services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u14	Reforming costs money. It has to be sustainable. We need to inject to reform, but we also need to be explained in terms of the budget, especially if it is only a few months. It's important that we do it for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u15	My questions date back to November-December, but the Christmas agreement makes them all the more relevant. In the Christmas agreement, it was agreed not to impose sanctions on disabled people who did not participate in an integration plan and to develop a broader system of response by summer. Personally, I am very satisfied with that outcome, because I have never been warmed up for the idea of the 10% penalty, which only applies to a very small part of the target group. I hope, however, that we are now moving towards a more balanced system which affects both the disabled and employers, and that it applies to all the disabled and not just to a small part. What's your point of view? What direction do you intend to take with the policy? I have also understood from the Christmas agreement that the rapid intervention, the three-month deadline, will be maintained. In the designs of royal decrees that I've been faced with, it's going to be six months. Will you revise that? How will you change the procedure so that you can meet the three-month deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u16	Madam Secretary, last week's Knack magazine asked you if the pressure on social security was also the reason why you want to punish the long-term unemployed if they do not want to work anymore. That was a very specific question. Your answer was much less concrete. You didn't deny the theorem, but you answered with a pirouette. You said, "That's what so many Indian stories have been told about." I've been calling our medical practice for the people to know what the Indian stories patients are going through. There were indeed many stories, but not directly from Indians. Let me give you the example of Bert, who is 36 years old. He is active for ten years in the humiliation of a large supermarket chain. He's now suffering from a tennis elbow from boning out. Accupuncture, infiltration with cortisone and kinesi therapy do not help. So surgery is the only option. But the uncertainty about how it will end continues to gnaw. He writes that he is prescribed nine months of relative rest with exercises, according to the guidelines of international evidence based medicine. I'll get back to you on that. That can only be done if the work is adapted. Rudi wants truowns back to work. He says sitting at home isn't his thing. By the way, he's suffering a huge loss of income while paying off his house. But the occupational physician says that there is no adapted work. However, on the website of the supermarket there are vacancies for quality inspectors of meat, work that he could do perfectly. The boss of the chain himself says he only wants employees who are 100% fit. I have heard seven or eight such stories, in which an employer can only give adapted work to an employee who is 100% fit. Madam Secretary, you often talk about responding to workers. Can I just ask you a question about responding to employers? As since 2007, the law obliges employers to provide adapted jobs or to provide another job in the company when they are reintegrated. This concerns Article 34 of the Labour Agreement Act of April 2007. That article was still not put into effect by a royal decree eight years later. What do you think of that? Don't you think this should be addressed? In addition, you often talk about evidence based medicine. Surely you should know that most studies show that no one is being cured by forcing him to do so. Healing takes time. Psychiatric complaints, burnouts, depressions are on the rise in our society. That's what it's about. People work in a shift system and become sicker and sicker. A lot of studies show that. You say that, according to the evidence based medicine, it helps to get people back to work, but most studies show just the opposite, namely that forcing them in such a situation is not a solution. What do you think of this? Finally, it concerns an agreement with the social partners. You had a royal decree that imposed severe sanctions, but you came back to that. That's interesting. That is why, in the title of my question, I referred to a victory for the social partners. I liked that message. A few weeks later, however, you say that you already want an evaluation. My question is therefore clear, Madam Minister, and I expect a clear answer. Would you like to return to the agreement in the next three or four months? In the press, you say yes or no. It's not clear. Can you reassure us, for us as a left-wing party, is it reassuring that you will not come back to the agreement or will you come back to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u17	Mrs. Fonck is on her way. Can we hold on to the questions so that she can still ask her question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u18	Mr Hedebouw, I have great respect for the Chamber. I have been a Member of Parliament for many years, but the questions you are asking are not in line with the questions that have been put. Only the subject is the same, otherwise there is no letter the same. That is a first point. Secondly, you say you've been on the phone with your doctor of Medicine for the People. However, I have already read the case you mention and all the other reports in the press. So some intellectual honesty is needed from both sides. Thirdly, you're the first to suspect me of making a pirouette. Fourthly, the Indian story you're describing is the situation as it is now. The new legislation does not yet apply. It is intended precisely to avoid such stories for patients. I said it's a positive story for the patients. After all, it is all or nothing now: either the current job is taken back or it is not done. That's exactly what you're describing. When I speak of a response, you can quote me. Read Time or Knack. I always talk in a breath, between the pirouette, about a response from the employer and the employee. I even went to the VBO to say that. That is also literally quoted in the article. Of course, you have the right to change your question in the meantime. I'll give you my answer. However, I think that any intellectual honesty would be a credit to you too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u19	Mr Hedebouw, I would like to ask Mrs Fonck her question first. You will then have the floor in the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u20	Mr President, the content of my question no longer fully corresponds to the current situation. In summary, will the NTC's opinion be followed with respect to the accountability system for workers with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u21	Article 153 of the Programme Act of 29 December introduces a new paragraph 1 in Article 100 of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994. The provision states that, after the start of the period of primary incapacity for work, a multidisciplinary reintegration plan shall be drawn up for the beneficiary, who may be considered for reintegration, taking into account his remaining capacities. The law must be enforced by a royal decree. When the Royal Decree was drawn up, it became clear that the success of reintegration also requires changes in labour law. That is why I have also taken the initiative to adopt the necessary measures with the Minister for Employment, Mr Kris Peeters, in the areas within his competence. Indeed, the labour law component must correspond to the new provisions of the sickness and disability insurance. This should avoid a lack of clarity as to what happens to the worker's contract during or after the illness. For these adaptations, we have based ourselves on Opinion No 1923 of the CNT. In close contact with the Council, we have worked on the arrangements in recent months. On 15 October 2015, both Cabinets subsequently proposed a new concept of uniform reintegration path to the social partners. On 20 November 2015, this was further discussed with the social partners at a meeting with both Cabinets. The new concept should distinguish between reintegration pathways aimed at reintegration into the employer's enterprise and reintegration pathways aimed at employment with another employer or in another sector. The first is called reintegration pathways aimed at retention. The employee is kept in the company. In the other case, there is talk of reintegration paths aimed at vocational reintegration. This can be a stepping stone to another profession, but it can also be a training course. When the employee no longer has a contract of employment, for example because the contract of employment is terminated because of permanent incapacity for work, the medical adviser of the sickness fund starts a reintegration process, which is aimed at employment with another employer or in another sector. To this end, the counsellor examines the person concerned and asks for his insights on the possibilities of reintegration. At any time in the journey, the beneficial owner is expressly given the opportunity to express his or her opinion on the chances of a reintegration plan and also on how he or she thinks it should look. For reintegration aimed at retention, i.e. with the same employer, the worker physician will be the central figure. In collaboration with the prevention consultant, he is responsible for preparing a health assessment. Of course, the necessary input from the treating physician can and must also be used. The eHealth platform will facilitate communication. In that case, the employer will submit a plan and discuss it with the employee and the employer. In the case of reintegration courses aimed at a vocational reintegration, i.e. on an activity other than the previous work, the consultant takes the lead to hear the patient and, if necessary, to contact the path supervisor of a regional institution or to initiate vocational retraining. In this process, too, the medical consultant must draw up the plan and discuss it with the beneficiary and with the other doctors concerned. On 9 December last year the social partners in the Group of Ten reached an agreement on the reintegration of long-term ill and on 22 December the Government informed the Group that it would implement the agreement of the Group. At present, all draft regulations, both of RIZIV and labour law, are being adapted to the agreement of the Group of Ten. There is therefore still consultation with employers and employees. Finally, medical professional secrecy and patient rights will be respected at all times. Those aspects are always fully taken into account in the drafting of all the regulatory texts. The agreement proposed to the government by the Group of Ten will therefore be implemented. For the further implementation and format of the implementing decisions, there is still consultation with both my cabinet staff and with the staff of Minister Peeters' cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think the method includes some really good elements. The distinction between reintegration for retention or occupational reintegration is a very good one. In addition, I agree that in one case the company doctor should be made a key figure, while the counseling physician continues to play a major role in the other case. I'm curious about the lyrics. Will you, for example, ensure that the period of time I am not talking about a day more or less than three months - short enough for the start of a reintegration plan? I do not hear you say anything more about responding, when I understood that something would be worked out in that sense before the summer. In any case, I am prepared to make my contribution, and I will do so, on behalf of my party, directly with the staff of your cabinet. I hope that something will come out of it, not to punish employers and workers, but to create a system that is working more and more methodologically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u23	Madam Secretary, I don't quite understand when you're referring to the press. Of course, we also bring stories directly to the press. That is for a political debate and I hope you are happy that there is a political debate. I can also understand how it makes you a little nervous. Many people, especially in Flanders, are very sensitive to what happens to long-term sick people and to the way in which the government now deals with this problem. You probably feel something in the story isn't right. You talked about sanctions. Can you remind me of the sanctions that are in place for employers today? That's a technical question. I forgot about that point. I also asked a very specific question about the evaluation. In Knack, you stated that there was a need for an evaluation. In what area should this evaluation be carried out? What parameters do you want to evaluate? The agreement was not yet dry, or you asked for an evaluation. Can you just give a Member a clear answer to the question to which the evaluation relates? I think that is very important for following up on the dossier. When's that evaluation due?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u24	Minister, we had argued at length for the government to follow the agreement of the Group of Ten. This is at least the commitment the government has made. Particular attention will now have to be paid to compliance with this agreement in terms of implementation modalities and to remaining within the framework of a voluntary and non-punitive reintegration plan. If we want to make it a success, there's no point in hitting people with a piece of wood. Above all, it is necessary to work with them, because, I repeat, some people who have been ill for a long time or who are disabled want to return to work. They are vulnerable people, either because of long-term illness or because of disability. I can only insist on the establishment of positive, constructive accompaniment. Only in this way can we be effective. I will come back to you in the Committee on Health because you have changed the rules of the medical certificate. I think that raises a number of important questions about the patient's rights, the medical confidentiality and the risks to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u25	Mrs Fonck, for me, this is a positive initiative. It will allow those who will have the capacity to do so to return to work that may be less burdensome than their previous work or reduced in the number of hours worked. It will really be a tailor-made work. That is why this reintegration project is individual. Each case is different. This initiative will also prevent these people from finding themselves unable to work for too long, at the risk of no longer being taken up in the labour market. Mr Hedebouw, second of all, I thought you'd made it somewhere when you said you called a doctor of Medicine for the People. I also know doctors from Medicine for the People. One thing is certain: these doctors also respect the patient's privacy and they also respect professional secrecy. It is not yet because they work with another way of reward, that these doctors do not have the same respect for the patient's professional secrecy and privacy. Furthermore, you get your stories wherever you want. In the current situation, it's an all-or-nothing story. After long-term incapacity for work, it must be possible to start work again with full speed. But I can't. That is what we want to change. You're telling me to change things because it doesn't seem like anything right now. Well, it's because it doesn't seem like anything right now that we're going to change that. Mr Spooren, the agreement is now being transposed as it has been accepted by the government. I would add that in the coming months we will continue our dialogue with employers and employees. And the route will lead to things that need to be discussed, but we are also trying to ensure that employers and workers are made more responsible. Mr Hedebouw, you also asked a question about the evaluation. This will happen as always when a measure is taken. Over time, we will see whether it is a good formula and whether this measure has enabled some people to get out of a situation of benefits and to resume work. We will have to make that evaluation. This is no different than the evaluation of any other measure. We always wonder if it is the right measure. The fact that we are examining whether a measure will improve the situation should just reassure you. It's always about a situation axis is relative to a situation to be. We want to improve the current situation by broadening the possibilities of offering people a tailor-made journey. Through this process, they move financially and socially forward and continue to count, whether or not in other work. This process has therefore been developed with the aim of improving the situation of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u27	Madam Minister, we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this again as the terms of the Ten Agreement are implemented. Attention will have to be paid to this. I can only note that you have also evolved in a personal capacity. Two royal decrees had been handed down. Yours provided for a mandatory sanction mechanism. Minister Peeters's was voluntary and not punitive. I think you're right you've evolved. I do not regret to have asked you several times about the subject and to have alerted you to the reality of these people, whom you know, particularly fragile, whether they are sick or disabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u28	Madam Minister, I asked you a question earlier. The 200 Joint Committee is the largest joint committee in Belgium, representing one third of all servants in the private sector and 50 000 companies. They may receive an annual premium of EUR 250. Through a collective agreement, it is possible to convert the ecocheque awarded to the value of 250 euros per year into a premium and to pay out this cash. The ecocheque can thus be converted into an equivalent advantage by means of a premium. If an employer wanted to convert the ecocheques into an equivalent advantage, he had to do so before 31 October 2015. How many companies have done this? How many employees are we talking about? What is the point of ecocheques if they are converted into a premium? Would it not be better to pay this amount of standard cash to the employees or to add it to the pay slip?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u29	Mr Vercamer, I am not an expert in collective bargaining like you, so I had this examined. Indeed, the collective agreement of the 200 Joint Committee grants a gross benefit of EUR 250. On the basis of Article 2, § 6, I conclude that it is an advantage subject to social contributions and taxes. This Article provides that increases and/or benefits in purchasing power of any kind per servant are to be calculated on wage costs for their total price. That is, gross plus patronial contributions from the annual premium. So it's not about the ecocheque, as you say. If one would give similar benefits such as meal cheques, ecocheques or other, these benefits should be deducted from the annual premium. Any balance may still be granted in the form of the planned annual premium. Finally, I should like to point out that the rules provide that meal and ecocheques may not be provided for the replacement or conversion of wages, premiums, benefits in kind or any other benefit or supplement thereto, whether or not they are subject to social security contributions. I believe that this is an important fact. In the case of meals and ecocheques, a system of net amounts has been chosen which are not subject to patronial contributions and which are not subject to taxes. A system has been created outside the legislation in force. Now you're asking me to put that system back in there. However, if you make the legislation applicable, that is a step backwards. Then there are charges to be paid, patronial contributions and taxes. I know what you mean. It would indeed be a simplification. It is just that legislation is not easy. After all, it has been chosen to work outside the legislation in force. Now you want to make the reverse move.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u30	Madam Secretary, I am concerned first and foremost with the principle. The collective agreement allows these cheques to be converted into a premium. That is allowed in principle. They are subject to social contributions, I agree. The legislator can, of course, change that. The legislator may say: you may convert the amount of those cheques without being subject to social contributions. It's just a change of law there. It is not because something is happening today that we cannot change it tomorrow. You are right, but now the principle has been acquired for one third of all servants in the private sector, 350 000 servants, but if we put in the law that they may be converted with exemption from social contributions and taxes, the problem is completely solved. For example, there has been a great deal of red tape for both companies and employees. It's not that hard, Madam Secretary. My question was, because you investigated it, how many companies and how many employees have used it. That's got to be known by now, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u31	I don't have those numbers. I don't know. My services don't know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u32	Then you'll have to check with me, Madam Secretary. They had to investigate it before 31 October. Someone has to check to see if it happened on the right date and by proper procedure. That
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u33	Mr Vercamer, I will ask the question. After all, the question of how many applications have been made is not in your question. If you don't ask me, I can't answer you. I can't just answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u34	I asked how many companies and employees are involved. I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u35	I'll ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u36	The answer will be delivered to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u37	It would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u38	As regards the amendment of the law, it is up to you in your capacity as a Member of Parliament to warm everyone up to that matter. May I remind you that the matter is not in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u39	We will table a legislative proposal on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u40	I'd like to tell you that I'm still sensitive to moving insight. However, the issue is not in the coalition agreement. You will therefore have to take a parliamentary initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u41	There are still many things not in the coalition agreement that are good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u42	I'm sticking to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u43	Mr Vercamer, we wish you good luck and will see where we end up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u44	I am not known as someone who (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u45	That's absolutely right. Mr Vercamer, you heard. Be sensible. We've learned a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u46	Mr.President, Madam Minister, the title of my question and its content seem somewhat technical, especially when I recall sections 154, 156, 159, 169 of the Program Act of December 19, 2014, but the issue behind it is important. Indeed, this concerns your government's decision to increase the waiting period from six to twelve months for incapacity for work benefits. There is a doubling of the duration of the internship. I will not recall the technical aspect of how the allowances are calculated over the reference periods. I recalled this in my question, but it doesn't matter. I would point out that the government's argument was that a probationary period of only six months was not in line with the fact that a person could continue to receive an incapacity for work allowance up to the legal age of retirement pension. That being said, you know like me that we can start working and have, three months later, a serious accident, become disabled or get a serious illness. The date of entry into force of these adaptations and of their application, it seems to me, was still to be fixed by Royal Decree, on the basis of Article 169 of the same Law. Unless we are mistaken, this does not yet seem to be the case. Of the only three royal decrees that were taken as implementing orders of 19 December 2014, two decrees were issued on 31 December 2014, one ministerial and one royal. A final royal decree was issued on 24 December 2015. None of them concerned the date of entry into force of this adaptation on the doubling of the waiting period. Do I have to infer from this that the waiting period today is still six months? If that is the case, I am pleased to do so and I suggest that we stay at that time. If I am mistaken and a decree of execution which has escaped us has been taken, I would make my most apologies to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u47	Mrs Fonck, article 169 of the programme law of 19 December 2014 grants the king an authorization to fix, by a deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, the date of entry into force of this measure relating to the extension of the probationary period to 12 months instead of the 6 months currently required to be able to grant entitlement to incapacity for work benefits. To date, as you know, this order has not yet been taken. It should also be pointed out that this measure will not, however, concern the maternity insurance sector, the conditions for which are unchanged. I am currently working on the further development of my action plan to reform the legislation on incapacity for work. In this context, the need to implement this provision will once again be assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u48	Minister, I know that this provision does not address maternity, paternity, birth or adoption leave. That being the case, this law was passed a little over a year ago. You will remember that the debates on the extension of the waiting period to 12 months were tense. You have not detailed to me the reasons why the enforcement order has not yet been taken in this regard. I imagine it is because of tensions or, at the very least, divergent positions within the government. At this stage, I strongly suggest that you not take this execution order, because the argument put forward by the government to try to legitimize the doubling of the waiting period can still be used for the extension to 18 or 24 months. That seems unjustifiable to me! I therefore plead that a waiting period of six months should be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u49	The practice of cohabitation or other types of cohabitation between persons with no particular connection between them is common, particularly among students or young workers, but also among the most disadvantaged or single. The price of real estate is in addition to the factors that are increasingly encouraging this formula. Their status raises questions since the Administration of Social Affairs considers co-residents to be part of the same household. This is not the case with Justice. A recent judgment of the Brussels Labour Court states that an applicant for employment participating in a cohabitation project is entitled to allowances as an isolated person. This judgment is precise enough to consider that cohabitants are not part of the same household. Others continue to say that there is a form of financial solidarity between roommates due to a balanced sharing of the costs of cohabitation. This is a crucial element. This is of course an important issue for the individuals concerned, since the benefits, allowances or specific measures provided for isolated persons will or will not be allocated to them depending on the way in which the situation is analysed. If they are considered to live together because they are roommates, the administration therefore excludes them from the framework of these various social policies. What exactly is your position on this divergence of views? Would it not be wise to review certain legal texts in order to clarify the situation, given the multitude of interpretations that can be made, but also in order to be in line with the evolution of society? According to the latest figures available, dating back to 2013, there is a significant increase in single persons by almost 6% of Belgians, or 1,600,000 single persons. I would therefore like to see if we can argue for an evolution of the framework. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u50	Mrs de Coster, as far as the right to health care is concerned, only the measure of the maximum amount to be charged, which, as a reminder, limits the annual health expenditure of households, is based on a household made up of persons who usually occupy the same dwelling and live together according to the data of the National Register of Natural Persons. The advantage of this concept is that it allows for an automatic granting of the maximum amount to be invoiced since households can still be composed without the intervention of insured persons. As part of the maximum amount to be charged more generally, exceptions exist for certain communities of life that can be found by insurers when the insured has his residence in a nursing home, psychiatric care home or in a religious community, for example. The co-location covers different realities for which it is not possible to find objective criteria to establish whether or not there is a cost-sharing, and therefore to provide for a different composition of the household for the maximum amount to be charged. In the particular case of the co-location, the competent authority may conduct an additional investigation to determine whether the costs are actually shared, including gas, electricity, etc. I am therefore of the opinion that the distinction in the current regulations is justifiable. Your question was rather vague. The administration has been interested in charging as much as possible, but here you are talking about other allowances. I know you can't ask questions about individual cases, but you have to try to clarify your questions, otherwise the answer is too vague. You can always send a written question. For us, it would be interesting to know exactly what type of allowance it is and what example it is. When I was Secretary of State for Poverty Reduction, there was often talk of cohabitation and the possibility of having the same costs for isolated people who agree, like students, to share a house with different rooms. There are no family or emotional relationships between them. I fully agree to accept the new forms of cohabitation. But we need to know what kind of allowances they are. There are different types of allowances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u51	We didn't understand each other well, minister. You went to the health care registry while my question was more about allowances, for example unemployment benefits or RIS (social integration income) for students.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u52	These are other laws each time: unemployment falls within the scope of the unemployment legislation. Children's allowances are something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u53	I will come back another time with a more precise question, in question written.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u54	Mr President, for the record, there has been a misunderstanding. Apparently, that question was submitted twice. She was delayed earlier. I'll only ask them once. Madam Minister, in the coalition agreement, we have made a commitment that the government would gradually increase the minimum social security and social assistance payments to the European poverty line. This includes sickness and invalidity benefits. Moreover, it is a commitment that has also been included in my resolution on poverty, which has since been adopted. The current amounts for sickness and invalidity benefits are not yet for everyone, in every situation, at the level of that European poverty threshold. Often they're really far below. As you know, that threshold is fixed at 60% of the median disposable income at individual level. In Belgium this is for a single 1 085 euros, for two people living together 1 627 euros and for a family with two adults and a minor 1 953 euros. I would like to give some examples that show that the amount of sickness and invalidity benefits is certainly often below that poverty threshold. A single person who is employed full-time as an employee and is paid at the guaranteed minimum wage of EUR 1 559 will receive a gross sickness benefit of EUR 935 during his first six months. This amounts to EUR 831 net. So that is far below the EUR 1 085 it should actually be. From the seventh month onwards, if he/she fulfils the career conditions, he/she is entitled to a minimum allowance of EUR 1 145 gross or net EUR 1 018, which is also just below the poverty line. A single self-employed person also has a problem, because from the second month of illness he is entitled to a monthly allowance of gross EUR 1 092, which is net equivalent to EUR 971. So he's also below the poverty line. A single worker with two children will receive gross EUR 1 431 and EUR 1 272 from the seventh month, while the poverty threshold is EUR 1 736. So that's 500 euros below the poverty line. It will be even more painful if the same employee does not meet all the career conditions, because then he will get only EUR 1 111 gross, which is net EUR 988. These figures show very clearly that a number of net amounts of the disease benefit fall below the poverty line. People with an income below the poverty line face a higher risk of poverty and side effects, including in the areas of housing and health care. So there is still a great deal of work to be done to rectify this situation, as stated in the coalition agreement. In the case of workers, a minimum amount of benefit is provided for from the seventh month onwards, before the seventh month, i.e. in the first six months, there is no provision for the minimum benefit. For many families, that means a dramatic situation. In the case of self-employed workers, we also see a problem. For them there is a minimum amount from the second month, but for the first month there is no minimum, because then it will be covered by the first guaranteed month. I have the following questions. As agreed in the coalition agreement, we must increase these benefits. You have probably already figured out how many people this is about, as far as your domain is concerned. How many people receiving sickness or disability benefits today are covered by the poverty line? How much lower are these benefits than the poverty line? How much do we get out of it? What's the average? What resources will you make available to increase the amount of sickness and invalidity benefits for all, depending on their situation, to at least the level of the European poverty line? By what time do you intend to achieve this objective? Do you have a step-by-step plan for that too? Are you considering the option of working with minimum amounts exceeding the European poverty threshold for the specific situation of workers during the first six months? As far as the self-employed are concerned, they should also receive this amount during the first month of illness. Are you prepared to deal with that problem as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u55	One of the main means of increasing minimum benefits to the level of the European poverty threshold is and will continue to be the welfare envelope. The government has committed itself to spending the successive welfare envelope 2015-2016, 2017-2018 and 2019-2020 at 100 %. In the previous government, this was only 60%. This represents an available amount of around €630 million on an annual basis. As you know, it has always been customary for the government, the politicians, to make the sum available, but the distribution of the amount between the various replacement incomes is made by the social partners. I would therefore like to support you in calling on the social partners to address this distribution in the coming years in such a way that the minimum benefits can make a significant catch-up to the level of the European poverty threshold. We make the wealth envelope available, but for the way it is distributed, the social partners get carte blanche. You know that, too. As regards the way in which the welfare envelope should be spent in 2017 and later in practice, I have said that I support your call to work preferably on minimum benefits. However, I am not going to say how many percent they should be raised or in what steps this should be done. This would be a sign of little respect for the social partners. It could perhaps be interpreted in such a way that I would like to impose on them how to distribute the wealth envelope. You know that there is a link between the negotiations on the distribution of welfare envelopes and the negotiations on an interprofessional agreement for the same two-year period. It would therefore be delicate to say what I would like to do for benefits and what could be done under an interprofessional agreement. The budgetary trajectory of the welfare envelope is well known. It has already been drawn up by the government until the end of this legislature. It is a sensitive increase compared to the amount that could be used in previous years. I believe that this is a good thing. It was rightly stated in the coalition agreement that we should strive to overcome the gap with that European poverty line. You belong to a party that says that social dialogue should never be questioned. It is then a little strange that I have to say that I certainly do not want to make a preliminaries or play for the social partners who will decide on the distribution of the welfare envelope. I will do what they decide and I will do it as soon as possible as I did last time. The self-employed, of course, are not under my jurisdiction but under that of Minister Willy Borsus. You will have to ask him that question, because I am not going to answer my colleague in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u56	Madam Minister, can you still answer my questions about the figures and the number of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u57	I got those numbers, but I haven't gotten them yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u58	My question is two months old.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u59	It's about a lot of numbers. I can't stand next to the people in the administration. They told me they're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u60	Madam Minister, I regret that I cannot get an answer to a question tabled on 23 November and ask how many people are involved and what budget is needed for it. My fourth question was clearly divided into two parts: you are responsible for the workers and you have not answered it either. With regard to the self-employed, I understand that you are referring to your colleague. But are you prepared to find a solution to that problem of the first six months? They are not now at a minimum level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u61	I have already told you that these are benefits for workers who become ill, so they are sickness and invalidity benefits. The extent to which these benefits increase depends on the distribution of the wealth envelope. I have therefore given a detailed answer. Secondly, your figures were immediately requested from the administration. We called this week, they're not here yet. I cannot punish my people in the administration because there is not an answer to a parliamentary question in time. I'm sorry about that, too. I give as many numbers as I can, but I need them first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u62	Unfortunately, I have to say with you that although the question has been put for some time, there is still no answer. When can we expect an answer? Will you forward that to the secretariat or directly to me? We have to agree to that, so that I do not have to ask this question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u63	As always when we get figures afterwards, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u64	I ask for this calculation because both you and I know that this welfare envelope will not be enough to raise all benefits above the poverty line and that there may be an additional effort from the government. I certainly do not call on you to interfere with the welfare envelope, but if we know how big the gap is, we know whether we will come with the wealth envelope. It's not clear now. There are other global calculations that talk about billions of dollars. That's why I wanted to make sure the amount was right. On the basis of the correct figures, for example, we can also tell the social partners that this or that group is very vulnerable. And I know that they will have to decide for themselves. However, if we have figures on the basis of statistics, then the social partners can make the right decisions in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u66	As soon as we get the figures, we will pass them on to Mrs Lanjri and the other fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 7630 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u68	And question No. 8334 by Mrs. Lanjri?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u69	That was a mistake. The same question was raised twice by Mrs Lanjri. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 7904 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mathot's 7996 lapses as he is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I have another question about partial incapacity for work. Unfortunately, there are many people who, for example after a serious illness at a young age, never have the opportunity to start full-time work. If they start working part-time, they will not be compensated for being unable to work full-time. That hypothesizes the future of those people, and this goes against the sense of justice. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the government would examine the possibility of partial incapacity for work. My questions are as follows. What steps have you taken in the meantime with regard to the possibility of partial incapacity for work? What plans do you have in that respect? Who is eligible for this? Is it a certain percentage of incapacity for work, or are you looking at it differently? What are the possibilities for compensation in the example I have just given? At what time can we expect anything concrete in this respect? I get regular messages from people who are in such a situation. You'll get it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u71	Mrs Lanjri, the current regulation already offers a number of opportunities for working part-time after a long illness. On the one hand, under Article 100 (2) of the Law on Sickness, part-time employment can be resumed, provided that from a medical point of view at least 50% of the work remains unfit for work. On the other hand, under Article 230 of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996, it is possible to combine part-time work with an invalidity benefit without the benefit being completely abolished. I agree with you that there are a number of gaps in the current regulation. For example, the system of permitted employment is aimed at full-time employment. The aim of the permitted work is indeed to gradually increase part-time work so that the worker concerned can return to full-time work at the end. In this context, part-time progressive work is sometimes referred to as a resumption.Permitted work is therefore, in principle, not open to disabled workers who are no longer able to work full-time. In addition, the current system of cumulation of pay from part-time or non-part-time work and benefit is complex and leads to a real administrative burden, both for the beneficiary and for the employer and for the sickness fund. This accumulation is not, in itself, impossible, but the system is too complicated, so both the employer and the employee look at it. Several initiatives have been taken to make us smarter. The Directorate-General for Policy Support of the FPS Social Security Office was asked to launch a public contract for a study on the organisation of the system of partial incapacity for work. That mandate will be published in the near future. In this way, the passage of the government agreement you quote will be implemented: "The government will examine the possibility of partial incapacity for work." The Directorate-General for Policy Support of the Social Security Office was also asked to consider the possibilities of simplifying the system of cumulation of pay from part-time or non-part-time work and disability benefits. I hope to get concrete proposals for this in the course of this year. If that possibility existed, perhaps more people would opt for it, if it were simpler. Finally, the knowledge centre for incapacity for work, which operates under the RIZIV Benefits Service, will include a study of the practical problems posed by the current system of permitted work in the programme for 2017. A concrete commitment to this effect will be included in the governing agreement of the RIZIV. I think we need a number of well-founded studies to come up with well-founded proposals. Of course, everything must be clear, transparent and verifiable. To this end, the necessary analyses should be carried out in advance. In the meantime, should we be able to introduce simplifications which would make the system more effective, that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u72	Madam Minister, I agree with the concern that when something is worked out, it must be well-founded. I hope, however, that this should not last until the end of 2017. We have committed ourselves to this in the coalition agreement. There's a study going on right now, but I hear you're planning an additional study in the course of 2017. I suppose we do not have to wait for all these studies before we can do anything, because then it is already coming to the end of this legislature and that is very late. In practice, for example, there are cancer patients who have to undergo treatments and who are allowed by their doctor to work part-time, 50%, but who are unable to work full-time, i.e. 100 %. Nor can they step back into the system of gradual work because they are never allowed to work 100 %. For those people there is now no possibility to accumulate that with a benefit. A solution must be found in the short term for people who are no longer able to work 100% because of illness or congenital defects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u73	Mrs. Lanjri, you have to be honest. I quote: 'The government will examine the possibilities of partial incapacity for work.' I have asked the administrations to launch the necessary investigations and studies. You also know how administration works; there must always be a trace of a mission in a management agreement. In that respect, everything is currently on the road. The sooner the better. If it's not all that hard, it'll all go faster. However, there has to be a solid substructure and no wet fingering.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u74	I'm not asking you to. Together with you, I hope that we do not have to wait until the end of 2017. Then we will have two more years to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u75	You know that there are a lot of reforms going on. There are fewer civil servants. My officials say that they have never experienced what is happening now. The number of parliamentary questions they need to answer and the amount of data they need to collect take a long time. An official engaged in this task cannot carry out any other task at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u76	Mr President, Madam Minister, occupational exhaustion syndrome, more commonly known as burn out, is affecting more and more workers in Belgium. According to INAMI figures, we have increased from 29,112 to 83,155 cases between 2007 and 2014. These figures represent only Belgian workers leaving the labour market for a period of more than one year and compensated by social security. In addition, sick leave is less than one year, which is estimated to be at least as numerous. Moreover, these official statistics do not take into account persons who do not make use of their rights, self-employed persons who do not meet the criteria of disability insurance and who are not entitled to unemployment benefits. The data also do not take into account persons alternating periods of work and periods of illness of less than one month who are paid by their employers. Finally, according to an investigation by the IDEWE Group, an important and active ASBL in safety and well-being at work, a quarter of Belgian workers may one day experience a burn out. Madam Minister, you will agree with me, and these figures are a matter of concern. This disease is a real public health issue in Belgium and its scale puts the issue of well-being at work at the forefront of concerns. In addition, beyond professional aspects, burn-out can also have disastrous consequences for private and family life, which is another cause for concern. Minister, what initiatives have been taken to address this phenomenon and what new measures do you intend to take to prevent its spread? Given the scale of the phenomenon, is the launch of a public health plan devoted to it a possible path for you? If so, when could such a plan be launched? In addition, a prevention tool, consisting of a questionnaire allowing for early detection of burn out in workers, was developed by the University of Liège with SPMT-Arista. How do you look at this device? Do you intend to take steps to expand the use of this tool, both in the public and private sectors? If so, how? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u77	Mr President, Mr Calomne, these figures call me as much as you do, and I would like to make them clear on one point. There is probably an increase in the number of burn out cases in our country, but some of these are due to a better diagnosis of the disease. Indeed, this was often not the case. For the rest, this remains an issue. I would like to remind you, in the preamble to my reply, that burn out is a disease linked to the pursuit of a professional activity and that, as a result, all matters relating to primary prevention at the workplace are dealt with by my colleague Mr Kris Peeters, with whom I work in good intelligence in order to obtain maximum cooperation in this matter. The government is aware of the need to act on all three aspects of prevention. I am of the opinion that burn out must be recognised as a work-related disease within the meaning of Article 62a of the coordinated laws on compensation for damage to occupational diseases of 3 June 1970. A request to this effect was sent to the Management Committee of the Occupational Diseases Fund (OAF). This is a sine qua non for the Fund to undertake actions in the context of secondary prevention of this condition. In particular, the aim will be to propose preventive measures to accompany and support workers who are still at work but are at risk of burn out or psycho-social problems related to work, or to define one or more rehabilitation routes suitable for people who are on extended work stoppages as a result of burn out or psycho-social problems related to work. In principle, by June 2016, targeted preventive actions will be analysed by the FMP Management Committee. INAMI and the FMP have been working with the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation on this issue for several years. In addition, I have launched two studies, via the INAMI Centre of Expertise, which aim to achieve quick and concrete results. The first study is prepared in consultation with INAMI, FMP and SPF Employment and Labour, and aims to develop a framework for prevention and return to work for people suffering from burn out. The aim of this study is to analyse how we can stimulate and, above all, systematize collaboration between the various actors involved in the treatment of this problem: doctors-consultants, mutuals, occupational doctors, psychosocial risk counsellors. This protocol should lead to a pilot project in order to test the effectiveness of various preventive measures and the implementation of an integrated prevention chain between the three institutions. The second study aims to construct a real path of care from the general practitioner for people who have left work and have been diagnosed in burn out. General practitioners are mostly in the front line in dealing with this problem and at this stage, I believe, do not have sufficient tools to deal with it. The idea of a path of care also makes it possible to systematize good practices in the treatment of the disease, but also the quality of the therapeutic approach. On the basis of the results of these studies, which will be available at least partially before the end of this year, I envisage, if the need arises, also launching an action plan based on the conclusions that I will have at my disposal. It is really necessary to work together. In addition to the Occupational Diseases Fund, which has a lot of expertise in prevention, we will work together with INAMI and SPF ETCS. Risks are really everywhere. The numbers are there, we see a quasi-exponential increase. Before that, it happened to people about fifty years old; now it happens to younger and younger people, too, who are 30, 35 years old. It's really also related to stress. It is always multidimensional, but stress in the workplace is still an important factor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you. I hear you're sensitive to these concerns. I take note of the steps you have taken to recognize this disease. We will follow the results of both studies and the action plan that you will implement as appropriate. It is interesting to note that it is no longer only in age groups above 50 that this type of disease is found. People who enter or have been in work for about 10 years may already be affected by this type of problem. You are sensitive and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u79	Mr. Chair, this question was also addressed to Minister Peeters, but I have no doubt that the minister will respond on behalf of the government. Minister, according to the figures made public, flexi-jobs are successful with Horeca employers. On 5 January, the press reported that the number of flexi-jobs in the Horeca was 4236 at the end of December, compared with 1108 a month earlier. It is true that history does not say whether these are new commitments or whether they are jobs that have been regularised. Minister, will targeted social inspection controls be organized to ensure that flexi-jobs are actually met? I am thinking in particular of people already employed at 4/5th time. In addition, it would be desirable for Horeca employers to take stock of the situation. Remember, during the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs on the programme law, and in particular on the government's amendments on flexi-jobs, I asked you whether the implementing decrees on the regulation of flexi-jobs were still in preparation. At the time, you told me that the orders were actually in preparation and that they should be taken at the beginning of the year. One of these orders seems particularly important to me, namely the de minimis aid order, which, as you know, is small-scale state aid granted to companies. The big question was who would have to calculate these famous de minimiss. At the time, you said that this calculation would be done by social security. Unless I'm wrong, no execution order has yet been made. In doing so, to date, it is Horeca's employers who have to calculate them. It is a heavy and complicated work which, moreover, presents risks in terms of the impact of the amounts. It came back to me that some employers have checked with ONSS. However, the latter does not seem to know that he would be responsible for de minimis calculations. Minister, do you confirm that enforcement orders are not being issued? If so, when will they be? Does ONSS know that it will have to calculate these de minimiss? I recall that the aim is to facilitate the work of Horeca's employers. Indeed, in my view, these very complicated calculations cannot be carried out by the latter, especially since the consequences can be serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u80	Mrs Fonck, with regard to the control of the 80% condition, I can tell you that it takes place completely automatically at the ONSS and that, therefore, no intervention by the social inspection services is required. Verification of the condition of employment from 4 to 5 hours(?) minimum for another employer at time T-3 prior to the commencement of employment, i.e. at the time of the Dimona declaration. At that time, the system immediately monitors whether this condition is met on the basis of the data available in the Sigedis Career Data Bank. The applicant shall then immediately receive feedback. As a result, the employer immediately knows whether or not the condition is met. The ONSS has the possibility of automatically applying the necessary corrections if, despite the error message, it nevertheless declares in its quarterly declaration, the employee as a flexi-job worker. No intervention by a social inspectorate is required. It is still necessary to define in the implementing decree which is to be adopted how this will ultimately happen, and in particular, what the basis for determining contributions will be. As far as implementing orders are concerned, I am able to inform you that my administrations are currently drafting the necessary texts for what is within my competence. These implementing orders must be available at the time of the first corrections to be made by the ONSS. Quarterly reports for the fourth quarter of 2015 including the declaration of the first persons placed at work under a flexi-job are currently reaching ONSS. They are immediately controlled by the system. If an error is found during this check, the employer is informed, must correct the error and make a corrected statement. If the employer fails to do so after a certain period of time, the NSSO will automatically apply the necessary corrections. It is at this point that the required enforcement orders will have the force of law. They are already ready and will soon enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u81	Madam Minister, thank you. However, I am still hungry about the de minimis calculation. My question was also addressed to Mr Peeters, but since it is the ONSS, your administration is concerned. You did not reply to me about the State aid component. These calculations are too heavy, complicated and therefore risky for employers. To date, ONSS still does not appear to be aware of the need for de minimis operations. In practice, therefore, we continue to question ourselves. In terms of legal certainty for Horeca employers, I believe it is imperative to resolve this issue. If they don't, they'll suffer. I would therefore like to urge you to ensure that the employers concerned are reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u82	Mr President, I note that all the members of the Chamber feel that the staff of my administration should work even harder.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u83	Perhaps you can discuss this at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u84	Since Mr Dallemagne was not present, his question became moot. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u85	Mr President, Madam Minister, I know that you are concerned about this issue of asbestos. When, in 2006, we drafted and tabled a bill that allowed the 2007 law, you were among the parliamentarians involved in this work. A new and quite original element emerged during the month of December 2015, the association of demographers active in applied research in the social sciences carried out a study aimed at seeing and estimating the lifespan of citizens in a very general way since the years 1895 to 2050. These demographers try to find out if there is a difference in life expectancy for people who are known to have asbestos-related diseases and other citizens. This study was made possible by the survey of asbestos victims, which was carried out and continues to be carried out by the Coverit victims' association and the Eternit victims' association, both the professional victims and the victims of these companies. The study finds that about 20 years of life has been lost for people exposed to asbestos and who develop related diseases. Of course, these twenty years go on. Whether we were victims at the beginning of the century or now return to the same thing, since they are incurable diseases. In the light of these figures, the Belgian Association of Asbestos Victims (ABEVA) echoed this and recalled the expected improvements to the existing scheme, some of which were included in our original bill. Among these, there is the consideration of cancers of the larynx and lungs when there are fibers. This lengthens the latency period, the period during which a disease can be considered. Today, for asbestos, it is 20 years when we know that the latency period is sometimes longer. There is the possibility of allowing a victim to dispose in the form of capital of the compensation allowance which is given monthly either to the survivors or to himself. In view of this significant decline in the number of years of life, this demand seems particularly justified to me, especially since it is known that the outcome is fatal for these people. It is also important to improve the information of workers and citizens who have been exposed, particularly for the self-employed. Minister, I would like to know if you had had the opportunity to examine this study. More generally, in view of these results, do you not think it is important to improve the 2007 law even if improvements have already taken place in 2014 since environmental victims are now compensated in the same way as professional victims? Shouldn't an information and awareness campaign be organized? I am saddened because I realize that today's young people no longer know asbestos. They don't know where they are anymore, they don't know what they are. They do work in their homes without knowing that they are seriously exposed. There are regional jurisdictions and federal jurisdictions in this area, but would it not be necessary to improve information about the existence of the fund by also insisting on the precautions to be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u86	Mrs Gerkens, as regards the extension of the list of compensable diseases, the Scientific Council of the Occupational Diseases Fund regularly looks at the problem of diseases that could be recognised under the asbestos fund. For example, in its January 2016 session, the Scientific Council will look at the recognition of ovarian cancer due to asbestos exposure. With regard to larynx cancer, the Scientific Council of the Occupational Diseases Fund considered the subject a year ago. Their conclusion is that the relationship between asbestos exposure and larynx cancer is less strong than suggested in older studies so that if the criteria for FMP recognition were to be reviewed, this would lead to greater exposure severity. There is therefore currently no question of making a proposal for the recognition of certain cancers under the Asbestos Fund. Furthermore, there is no legal constraint as to a delay between exposure to asbestos and diagnosis. As regards the improvement of the financial compensation granted by the Fund, it has seen its possibilities for reimbursement extended by the Act of 26 February 2014. Asbestos victims are now eligible for reimbursement of health care and for intervention in the payment of assistance from third parties in case of need. Although there is no specific early pension scheme for workers exposed to the risk of asbestos, it should be noted that there are special provisions in collective labour agreement No 114 for workers over 58 years of age who have been exposed to asbestos for more than two years and have serious physical problems. The Fund has in the past taken many steps to make itself known, such as the sending of letters to persons recognized for asbestosis or mesothelioma by the Occupational Diseases Fund at the time of the creation of the asbestos fund, the creation of an asbestos fund website, the sending of a newsletter, the publication of articles in the newspapers of the mutuals. However, it seems to me that an effort to communicate to the world of the self-employed should be made. That is why I will ask the Fund to contact INASTI so that targeted communication can be undertaken. Finally, in the contract for the administration of the Occupational Diseases Fund, an objective is mentioned for the funding of research related to the treatment or better diagnosis of mesothelioma or other asbestos-related diseases. However, the administration is dependent on requests for funding from the academic community to facilitate this research. In recent years, no such request has been received by the administration. As required by the government agreement, I am actively working with the Minister of Employment to implement an integrated occupational risk prevention policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm happy to hear that ovarian cancer is being analyzed because it's being cited more and more often. I'm surprised about the larynx, but I'll find out. When fibre is present and other factors are associated with it, the tendency is to say that other factors than fibres are the reason. I'm thinking if there's fiber, there's exposure. This is really the criterion that should allow for consideration and compensation, especially since the Fund is also involved in non-occupational diseases. The link can therefore be wider than at present. With regard to collective agreement 114, which allows for more favourable provisions in terms of early retirement, this does not agree with what I mean. In our bill, we indicated that when we discover asbestosis or mesothelioma, the lifespan is very short. The idea was that part of the benefit to which one would be entitled on the basis of life expectancy was one third of the total sum. In this way, in its end of life, the affected person will be entitled to this compensation for which the State has its share of responsibility. Especially since some do not always have heirs or family members who can be compensated after the death, as provided by law. I have finalized a bill that clarifies a little bit more what I'm talking about – it's in translation. I will ask for it to be put on the agenda when it is finished, but it is in this sense that I wanted to make suggestions to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 8506 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u89	Mr President, Minister, on 12 January, my birthday, you dared to speak in De Standaard about savings in social security. You said that structural savings can only be achieved after structural reforms. I'm very curious about that. Perhaps I could also give my chairman some information if you have relevant matters to comment on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u90	Mr President, Mr Spooren, you should know that I am in fact constantly renovating, reforming and also cleaning up. I have already said that every euro is turned around to see if it has been spent efficiently. Each euro is questioned. The government agreement provides for 2,135 billion social security reforms by 2019. For health care, in accordance with the government agreement and in view of the decisions of the Duchess and the tax shift budget control, we will go to a total of 3.2 billion by 2018. Of this we have already repaired 1.7 billion in health care. The intention is that we should be able to do so without the patients feeling it. We clean up healthcare, but without the patient being the victim of it or having to pay seven times more for health care through higher bills. After all, we know that in our country the patient's personal contribution is already quite high in terms of health care payments. So we will continue to reform and eliminate possible waste and double and improper use. The final objective is to build sustainable social security, not only for the next few years, but also for future generations. In doing so, we want to ensure that the highest possible quality, good accessibility and sustainability are maintained. The major structural reforms we are undertaking are as follows. We communicated on the first reform yesterday. In the Committee on Health, we presented this reform yesterday afternoon, and Members also asked questions. It is about the future pact with the pharmaceutical sector for the benefit of the patient. Through structural measures related to medicinal products, the invoice in that sector decreased by 23 million euros in 2015. By 2018, this will be structured up to 60 million euros per year for the patient. We also have the eHealth Action Plan, in which we want to achieve a number of reductions in administrative burdens. This is about abolishing the doctor's notes for reimbursements. The chairman of this committee has already begun to do so in his capacity as Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification at the time. I gave him photos of the many books and notes. We had already met on this matter. This system of refunds will be digitised, which will enable a reorganisation to take place in this area. All types of care providers are involved. Another reform is the reform of hospital funding. By working in networks, we avoid a race between hospitals for the purchase of expensive equipment, so that in some places equipment may not be used enough or insufficiently profitable. Local and regional hospitals continue to exist, but for very complex interventions, in line with the studies of the knowledge centre, the patient must be referred to a specialised centre, where expertise is pooled and where all necessary equipment is available together. Another reform concerns the reduction of patronage. We hope, of course, that this will create jobs. There is also a reform of the financing of social security. That's scheduled for next year. As you know, we are still in a transition year, through the implementation of the sixth state reform and the implementation of the tax shift, which makes it impossible to create a sustainable system of social security funding this year. We also have the reintegration path for disabled people. We'll work on it as soon as possible. There are reforms within the public institutions, the so-called redesign and the merger of the Fund for Accidents at Work with the Fund for Occupational Diseases. We are advanced in the fusion of the Scientific Institute for Public Health and CODA. We are going to work together between the Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment Benefits and the War Victims Fund. The administrative support services of these two small administrations flow into each other. So we're working very hard on it. It is important to reform and clean up, so that future generations have not only strong but also very accessible social security. The largest work has been done in the field of health care. The largest amount is also obtained there. There the greatest efforts have been made within the standard, i.e. within what the RIZIV pays out, but also a large number outside the standard. All I ask is that everyone does the same effort pro rata, depending on the budget. It's not about the nominal amount. Everyone must make the same efforts in their department. It's not easy anywhere. I've already done it with the FOD Asylum and Migration. Now it's hard. If everyone in this country reforms and cleans up as hard as I do, then there are no more concerns about social security. Your chairman had comments on administrative costs. We will not find these billions in that amount of EUR 170 million; we may agree on that. That's not substantiated enough. I'd be happy if you could talk to him about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u91	Thank you for your suggestion. So you meant in that interview that your structural measures now lead to structural savings, but you did not mean that you could still take structural measures that could lead to structural savings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u92	We're on schedule and we're on schedule. I can't get EUR 3 billion out of health care in a year. I'm still cleaning up, because I'm taking a number of new initiatives, such as hepatitis C medicines. We have made more funds available for orphan medicines and we are paying back items that could never be repaid in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u93	Madam Minister, the expenses for volunteers may not exceed EUR 32,71 per day and EUR 1 308 per year. If a volunteer crosses one of the boundaries, all income from that voluntary service becomes taxable. He must then enter the full amount in his tax return. As a result of the limited resources available to administrative staff in primary education, schools are often obliged to call on volunteers to take over some of their tasks. Volunteers are involved in pre- and post-school care, administrative tasks, serving meals, etc. Our concrete proposal is not to raise the maximum amount per day, but to be able to volunteer more days a year, in other words to raise the maximum amount per year to EUR 5 887. Given the increasingly important role of volunteers in our society, I have a number of questions on this subject, Madam Minister. Do you recognize this problem? Are you prepared to consider this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u94	I can only reply to the section on the exemption of social contributions applicable to voluntary work and not to tax treatment. That's for my colleague. On the tenth anniversary of the Voluntary Act of 3 July 2005, I asked my services and the High Council for Volunteers to review this law. So I've been talking to the High Council for Volunteers. I asked for an inventory and a number of suggestions to be made to amend the law after ten years. As you know, the High Council includes organisations representing the various sectors of volunteers and experts. External experts and umbrella organisations who are not members of the Board were also invited to participate in this evaluation. In this way, civil society was fully involved in the evaluation. The conclusions of the High Council for Volunteers with possible proposals and suggestions to amend the Voluntary Act are expected in spring 2016. I've given them a year. It was a lot of work for those people, too. I would like to await the conclusions and input of civil society before taking a position on specific needs for specific sectors. However, it must never be forgotten that volunteering is primarily altruistic and that there can only be a reimbursement of costs. I should also like to point out that an exemption from social security contributions applies to the remuneration paid to persons who have a principal activity in an educational establishment and who carry out a supervisory and/or accompanying activity as an additional benefit for the same employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you. I'm glad you're already working hard on this theme. I will question you again later in the year, as the conclusions will not come until spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u96	I asked for an update of the law, but also for a separate working group to be convened around the so-called grey zone of semi-agoreal work. That gray zone is still there. A separate group has been formed, because this has to do with the whole of the legislation at work. Those people were stunned when I came to their meeting, because in all these years they have never seen a Minister of Social Affairs at the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u97	Apparently, we're making progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-20-54-commissie-ic315x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Peel's 8606 will be converted into a written question.
