ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the opportunity to take stock of the SME plan. The current situation shows once again that SMEs are permanently an important base of our economic activities, the heart of development, which must be constantly supervised, privileged and protected. The economic value generated by the SME debt holders perpetuates the financing of our social model. For example, SMEs represented 99,1% of Belgian companies and accounted for 54,4% of private employment and 43,9% of Belgian value added according to the European Commission. The coalition agreement places SMEs at the centre, in particular through the federal plan for SMEs and the Self-employed, which I was able to present to you last year. This plan, which was launched on 27 February 2015, contains 40 concrete measures to support SMEs in their development. The measures are centred around five transversal axes and one multisectoral axis. Firstly, competitiveness, taxation and the fight against social dumping; secondly, improving the social status and promoting entrepreneurship; third, access to finance, bankruptcy and second opportunity; fourth, administrative simplification, fifth, internationalisation of SMEs and, sixth, sectoral measures. Eighteen months have passed since that date. It was eighteen months of design and concrete measures, which were worked out and implemented in a real, enthusiastic manner by my teams and by all the competent fellow ministers of the EU. I have had the opportunity to return to this regularly during our discussions in committee in the context of the presentation of general policy 2016. A new mid-term review was called for in order to continue to give useful impetus to the development of all measures. On 15 July 2016, I was very pleased to be able to present to the Council of Ministers an update on the 40 proposals and to pay tribute to the concrete results achieved by the government's actions in favour of SMEs. I'm proud of the mid-term review. Out of the 40 measures, only 18 months after the plan was presented, 27 measures apply. The economic indicators point to the positive impact of the measures initiated a year and a half ago. The number of companies set up undoubtedly reflects the positive dynamics of entrepreneurs. In 2015, there were 1,035,469 self-employed and caregivers, an increase of just over 2% compared to 2014. In 2015, 863 748 SMEs with fewer than 50 employees were subject to VAT, an increase of 2.4% over 2014. In 2015, 9,762 companies subject to VAT were declared bankrupt, which is obviously still an excessive figure. It should be noted, however, that this figure is down 9% from 2014. These positive results with regard to SMEs do not, of course, avoid the findings we have made in recent weeks and also the impact on the smallest enterprises and the self-employed, the closure of a number of companies that you mentioned at the beginning of your work or the indirect impact of a number of restructurings. I am also involved, with my colleague, Kris Peeters, and under the leadership of the Prime Minister, particularly in the accompanying committee on Caterpillar subcontractors. Therefore, my assessment of the situation of SMEs today does not, of course, detract from the observations, the vigilance and the mobilisation that we must have regarding the various social dramas that you have just discussed. Nevertheless, let us note, ladies and gentlemen, the positive results with regard to SMEs. These positive results bring me seamlessly to explain the main achievements of the plan, based on the different development axes. As regards the axis of competitiveness, taxation and the fight against social dumping, since 1 April 2016, companies have received a first reduction in the main social contributions, in particular 30% instead of 33%. In addition, my proposal to remove the main social contributions for the first recruitment is a concrete reality for the new employers since 1 January this year. The results may also be there. According to the latest figures of the Union of Social Secretaries, we see a growth rate of more than 24% of new employers in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period of the first six months, i.e. in 2015. This should not put the increased reductions for the first recruitment in the background. The benefits until then for the first to the fifth recruitment apply from now on to the second to the sixth recruitment. Moreover, as from 1 January 2016, the deduction for professional investments has been increased from 4% to 8% for SMEs and from 3.5% to 8% for self-employed persons active as natural persons. From tax year 2016, companies can deduct 13.5 % for digital investments and 20.5 % for security investments. Last April, the government approved the principle of structural labour market reform. This reform, built on a basis that generalises the annualisation of working time, without questioning the weekly working time of an average of 38 hours, is also an important lever for employers and employees employed in SMEs to enable them to work together to develop a modern working framework adapted to the challenges of today. In this respect, I remain attached to the development and relaxation of the rules of the employers' group. The current provisions were extended until 30 June 2017. A draft reform is on the table. I call for a procedure and a simple and clear framework to strengthen the measures that are a concrete example of flexicurity. The fight against social dumping is one of my priorities. I attach crucial importance to supporting those sectors that are more affected by this unfair competition. Together with my fellow Members, and with the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, I have defended in the government the introduction of an offensive plan. I am very pleased with the commitments made through the plan validated by the Council of Ministers on 22 April. The Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, the SIOD, will be reorganized. 96 inspectors and recipients will be recruited, allowing for a sensitive increase in the number of targeted checks. The Law on the Nature of Industrial Relations will be revised. Administrative penalties in the event of fraud will be increased. A membership of a social insurance fund will be imposed before the start of an activity as a self-employed person. The cross-border recovery of social contributions will be improved. Specific plans were drawn up to support in particular the sectors affected by social dumping. The various measures are now being introduced and are subject to accurate and regular monitoring. I welcome the progress on the second axis, in particular the improvement of social status and the promotion of entrepreneurship. As regards the reform of social contributions, first of all, monitoring will continue in the first months following the new calculation of social contributions, pending the overall assessment provided for by law and to be carried out by the ABC, the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. The monitoring committee of the reform will continue the evaluation quarter after quarter. The Committee met several times this year and made positive findings. From a financial point of view, the objectives of budgetary neutrality were achieved more than with an increase in recovery. The numbers are next. For 2015: more than 6.8%, representing an additional €252 million compared to 2014. For half the year 2016, an additional 43 million after half a year, despite the reduction in contributions, which, as you know, was its first step in 2016 with the change from 22 to 21.5 %. I would also like to note the decrease in requests for exemption from social security contributions. The latter also represent a barometer or indicator that we follow very closely: their amounts, exemption from contributions, the number of bankruptcies, commitments, etc. Applications for exemption from contributions are on the decline: there were 16,579 applications in 2015, compared to 27,050 in 2014, and 32,013 in 2013. See how much we find ourselves in a decrease in total or partial exemption from contributions! I'll give you these figures after I'm introduced. Measures to improve the system are under review, including the addition of new thresholds to enable these contributions to be adjusted as close as possible to the amount deemed to have been earned in the current year. On the other hand, we would like to propose to my colleagues in the government a provision concerning the transition from one regime to another, which has resulted in a number of financial victims, not very many but still victims. We are therefore currently working on additional threshold additions and an intermediate intervention measure, in full coordination with the monitoring committee. As you know, female entrepreneurship is one of my other priorities. In this respect, I have worked out a plan to encourage female entrepreneurship. Important measures have already been adopted, on the one hand the extension of maternity leave for self-employed persons and the possibility of taking up the optional period of that leave part-time and, on the other hand, the equivalence of the quarter following childbirth, so that the female self-employed person does not have to pay a contribution during that quarter but remains covered. Another objective of this second axis is to strengthen assistance to the self-employed in difficulty. In this context, I have already taken steps to ensure that self-employed persons have a social security contribution regularised and therefore the opening of pension rights for that period. In parallel, a working group will soon be set up to improve the efficiency and speed of the Commission for the exemption of contributions. It is essential that the self-employed who apply for an exemption and who find themselves in a difficult economic situation are rapidly clarified about their situation. A further important step forward is the right of bridging which should normally enter into force on 1 January 2017. It is a question of providing support to any self-employed person who ceases his activity because of financial difficulties. This aid consists of a monthly financial benefit and limited social cover for up to 1 year to bridge the period between the cessation of activity and the re-establishment of a new activity as self-employed or perhaps something else. At present, only the self-employed who are in bankruptcy, who are in collective debt mediation or who deposit their books by force majeure are supported. This new coverage is the subject of a preliminary draft law approved by the Government on 20 July 2016 which will be submitted shortly. As regards disability insurance, the reform of the authorised activity system already entered into force on 1 July 2015. The conditions for a partial take-up are now set out in a simpler two-part framework according to whether or not the objective is fully re-enabled. There is also significant progress on pensions. As you know, a historic step has been taken in August 2016 with regard to the social status of self-employed workers, as the minimum pension for self-employed workers has been in line with that of employees since 1 August. Another good news is that at first reading the government approved the social aspects of the preliminary draft law introducing the second pillar pension for self-employed persons as an active natural person. The design creates a social framework and adds to the free supplementary pension for self-employed persons. This second pillar will ensure that self-employed persons active as natural persons will have the same opportunities as managers. They will therefore no longer be obliged to set up a company if they wish to form the second pillar of pensions. I will conclude this list with the development of the introduction of the status of student-entrepreneur, my baby baby. For me, this introduction is a key measure of my SME plan, even if it is not fully included in the government agreement. As you know, it seems essential to me as early as possible to whisper a vocation to the young generations as an entrepreneur. The work is well advanced. The draft law should soon be submitted to this committee of the Chamber of Representatives. In general, the preliminary draft law provides for a statute for students who are under 25 years of age and who are mainly registered in order to receive regular training in an educational institution with a view to obtaining a diploma recognised by the competent authority in Belgium. As far as its content is concerned, it contains an advantageous contribution system, the maintenance of health care rights and the status of dependent person at tax level. I will shortly outline in the parliamentary debates the outlines of this innovative statute, which I believe will encourage many young people to get to know entrepreneurship from the start of their studies. Two major projects remain to be carried out on this second axis, namely the assessment of the implementation of a contract for co-contractors, co-entrepreneurs, and the reflection on the granting of the right to pension to self-employed persons on an additional basis. I have entrusted the General Management Committee for the Staff Regulations of the Self-employed with the task of examining them. Promoting access to finance, preventing bankruptcy and supporting second chance entrepreneurship are the priority objectives to support the development of SMEs. It is crucial for SMEs to be able to use different forms of funding for their life cycle. I've been careful that our actions cover all the funding axes. The first review of the Law of 21 December 2013 on various provisions on financing for SMEs and the Code of Conduct between SMEs and the credit sector are important measures in the Plan. Indeed, SMEs often feel powerless against banks and do not always understand what they are asked to do and there are no negotiating margins. A survey I conducted on the entry into force of the Law of 21 December 2013 shows that 73.6 % had difficulties in providing the required information to banks. This evaluation has now been completed. I am pleased to see good cooperation between all the actors involved in the démarche. I am pleased to see that nearly ten thousand SMEs participated voluntarily in the survey organised by the General Directorate of SME Policy of the FPS Economy. The conclusions will be published shortly. I will formulate new slopes to better support access to finance. In this context, my priority is to take measures aimed at further improving relations between SMEs and credit institutions with a view to concluding credit agreements, as well as in the definition of the safeguards that will be required for that purpose. Indeed, one of the slopes that I have in mind in the context of the revision of the law is to continue with the information contained in the provisions on the guarantees requested by credit institutions to SMEs. The alternative financing is also a lever for the development of SMEs. The tax shelter principle for SMEs was formalised in the Programme Act of 10 August 2015. The principle is a significant tax reduction in case of direct investment in the capital of eligible companies, investment through an alternative investment platform and investment through a start-up fund. The direct investment has led to a tax reduction since July 2015. The other two arrangements will apply as soon as the statutes are in place. The texts on the statutes of alternative financing platforms and the start-up fund were adopted by the Council of Ministers at second reading on 20 July, with a view to their submission to the Chamber of Representatives. Therefore, SMEs will be able to benefit very soon from diversified and attractive sources of funding adapted to their needs. We can't stop now that we're on the right track. Preventing bankruptcies and supporting the upswing are crucial tasks, for which I work together with my colleague Geens. In mid-2015, in order to reform insolvency proceedings, a working group was set up, with and on the initiative of the Minister of Justice. This working group has drafted a draft bill that is in the process of being finalized. This draft bill is expected to be submitted to the government in the near future. The aim of this preliminary project is to improve the prevention of bankruptcies, in particular as the computerisation of the company solvency data used by the chambers of commercial inquiry will enable them to detect companies in difficult situations and even in difficult situations more quickly, and thus to initiate, with a better chance of success, a positive, favourable outcome, of proceedings for judicial reorganization. It is very important to properly measure the impact of YRPs, what they allow as a rebound, what they have as direct and indirect consequences. It's a job that, with my friend Koen Geens, we're leading. The preliminary draft will also significantly promote the second chance of our entrepreneurs by allowing a faster discharge of the bankrupt's debts in good faith - sometimes there are procedures that last very long before the courts and that prevent the person from returning to an activity - but also by extending the bankruptcy procedure - we are evaluating this - to entrepreneurs who today cannot benefit from it. I am thinking in particular of farmers or certain holders of a non-commercial intellectual profession. Finally, noting that the liquidity problems are, according to the studies, the cause of 25 % of the bankruptcies, a new mechanism for recovering undisputed debts between enterprises has been established. On the one hand, the EUR 1 860 threshold, beyond which the summary procedure can no longer be initiated, was removed. On the other hand, a new, faster procedure for the recovery of uncontested monetary debts between companies came into force on 2 July. This is a modernised, accelerated procedure, in which the bailiff plays a central role. As regards debts involving a private debtor or consumer, it is currently being considered whether a procedure can be followed for the settlement of B2C claims on the basis of the European order for payment. This would relieve the courts as much as possible of the treatment of uncontested claims. This will have to take account of the need for consumer protection. Administrative simplification is a permanent process to which the administration and the public authorities must constantly devote energy. SME managers rightly denounce the administrative burden, which too often weighs on their shoulders and prevents them from paying their full attention to the development of their activities. Concrete measures were included in the SME plan. The widespread use of e-billing remains an obstacle for SMEs, which also share more management processes with accounting experts. I have therefore commissioned a study to better understand the issues and the obstacles, but also to formulate concrete proposals on the generalization of electronic invoicing. Securing the process is obviously an essential aspect. The conclusions of the authors of the study will be communicated in the next few weeks. I will, of course, convey them to you and then give the necessary impetus. Together with my colleagues, I remain attentive to the growing role of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises as the sole administrative contact for SMEs. The project currently under discussion aims to ensure that all acts are transmitted in the future either by a notary or by a business window, without going through the registry offices of the commercial courts. These would be so desengorged. There would no longer be any publication in the Moniteur belge. The ECB would therefore become the authentic source in terms of corporate information. As you know, I am concerned about improving SMEs' access to public procurement. I had the opportunity to defend before Parliament the laws on public procurement, which were adopted on 12 May. Provisions concerning SMEs directly were approved. I am thinking in particular of the obligation to divide public procurement into lots or to justify the reasons for not doing so. This is truly a complete reversal of the previous situation in public procurement. Furthermore, the generalisation of the use of the computerised provision of the dossiers to tender, the possibility of using the equivalent of a label, the fact that the price is no longer the exclusive or privileged criterion in the invitations to tender, are all important changes. Together with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, we are engaged in bringing together all stakeholders - organisations, structures, etc. - to offer you an immediate package of administrative simplifications. I can tell you that, together with Theo Francken, we have received dozens of suggestions which are currently the subject of a thorough internal evaluation, supplemented by our own suggestions before they are presented to you. We have also dealt with the development of SMEs internationally, which is the fifth axis of the SME plan. Needless to say, the importance of the progressive internationalisation of our SMEs, particularly the results of this study, which show that internationally oriented companies tend to grow faster in terms of business, turnover and employment than those which remain confined to the national market. In this study, we also identified barriers to the internationalization of SMEs, including the lack of information on foreign markets, the lack of staff know-how, lack of knowledge about international trade, the need to adapt its products and attitudes to foreign customers, and the high cost of internationalisation. That is why on 21 June I proposed a series of measures to support the internationalisation of SMEs, respecting the competences of the federated entities - with which I wish to work hand in hand. This involves raising awareness of the benefits of internationalisation, developing the knowledge of export support instruments, wider use, in particular of the Ducroire, which is still too unknown to SMEs, pooling export efforts through economic interest groups or employer groups, and possible tax incentives for SMEs turning towards internationalisation. The European Patent Office (EPO) is also legally, technically and operationally ready to grant the first unitary patent, which would be an important element, in addition to the cost of the so-called unitary patent filing, which will be divided by ten for ten-year protection in twenty-six Member States. The creation of a judicial system with a local division in Brussels will result in the protection of holders in a more offensive manner. Any economic or social policy must, of course, take account of the specific environment of the various activities in the sector. The final axis of the plan meets this objective: integrating expectations and sectoral challenges in order to modulate the measures useful to SMEs. The definition of the craftsman has been directly applicable in the field since 2016. I had committed myself to that and it is a true success. With this legal definition, artisans finally see their knowledge recognized and protected. The introduction of a legal definition of craftsman recognises their talent and valorizes and protects their work. Their golden hands deserve to be known, recognized and protected. The craftsman who fulfils the legal conditions may apply to the Craftsmans Committee to obtain the label of craftsman and use the logo in his communication with the general public. Among the companies subject to VAT of less than 20 employees, around a thousand companies are registered as active craft enterprises. So far 900 craftsmen have submitted this application and 380 have already been recognized as craftsmen. Such success can rightly be underlined. The accompanying measures in the hospitality sector are already part of the daily lives of the companies concerned. On 22 June, according to ONSS data, 15,568 people work in flexi-jobs after six months. According to the Union of Approved Employers' Social Secretariats' projection, the number of workers involved in gross hours of overtime equals net, from January to May 2016, is 22,838, or 36 % of the total of workers working overtime. Before concluding, I would like to talk to you again about the plan for fair competition in the construction sector. It has led to a series of very concrete decisions through the Plan to Combat Social Dumping and the reform of public procurement legislation. On 3 February last, the plan for fair competition in the transport sector was signed by the social partners, the representatives of the administrations and the Minister responsible. Thirty specific and concrete measures were announced to ensure the competitiveness of the sector. The support of neighborhood trade has been the subject of a study by my cabinet and the General Directorate of SME Policy. The aim is to identify the difficulties facing the local commerce sector and to put forward concrete proposals for support measures. The various proposals will be analysed in the coming weeks with my colleagues in the government responsible for this matter. In addition, I am also working to optimize the orders and institutes that oversee the regulated professions that fall within my remit. The aim of this optimisation is, as the case may be, to reform the structures or to create them, or to review their legal tasks. A round table discussion is currently being held with the architects' sector on the reform of the Order. A general policy note is being finalized with the sector and will serve as the basis for drafting a bill. We are almost at the end of the road to reform. The Act of 22 April 1999 on the accounting and tax professions is also the subject of consultations with a view to optimising the functioning of the bodies and procedures of the Professional Institute of Chartered Accountants and Tax Professionals (IPCF), as well as sanctions within the Institute of Accountants and Tax Advisors (IEC), but also to fill gaps in the legal framework concerning, inter alia, the IPCF internship. Discussions are also taking place with the field of expert surveyors, during which the main principles of creating an order will be discussed. A bill is being finalized in this regard. Another important topic is the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents, with which we have prepared a reform with the aim of avoiding, even if they are very minority, irregularities found, in particular, in the exercise of their profession or in the management of condominiums. This includes being able to block access to the profession for a real estate agent concerned by suspicions of irregularities, blocking his access to a third party account or that of the condominium, etc. I conclude by telling you that the procedure for the renewal of the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs has been completed. As soon as the figures submitted by all the organisations are validated, the Council will be able to start its activities, we hope, from the beginning of 2017. That, Mr. Chairman, is too succinct a summary of the work that has been done. The work has been intense in many directions. Having said that, we know that the economic situation requires absolute mobilization. The climate is now positive in SMEs and among the self-employed. I have tried to contribute to this desire to move forward and to this growth capacity of our self-employed and SMEs. I do not claim at all that everything is pink or that everything is positive and not that the work is finished. On the other hand, I am very pleased that in a few months I have been able to obtain such numerous and important decisions on the SME Plan. I would like to conclude by thanking you, the Members of Parliament and, in particular, this committee, for the confidence you have shown me because most of these texts have been unanimously approved. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the government. I've mentioned a few of them in some files. I must say that this is first of all a team work of which I am only one of the instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u2	Thank you, Minister, for your statement, but I have not been able to get everything. I would particularly like to focus on the evaluation of the SME Financing Act, on which I had already put a question a while ago. As you know, it is not easy for companies, especially SMEs, to obtain refinancing of current loans. They shall not be subject to a reinvestment fee of three months for private individuals. In the past, it was mostly a funding loss, which resulted in very high costs. This has been reduced by the 2013 law to six months for credits of up to 1 million euros, but of course only for credits from January 2014. Forgive me if I have missed a piece of your statement, but has that evaluation been completed yet? There are, after all, some reservations about the amount of EUR 1 million, for example. How exactly is that supposed to be interpreted? If I am going to ask in the field, people do not always seem to be sure. If an SME borrows EUR 900 000 twice for two different files, it falls within the legal framework for the maximum six-month reinvestment fee for the total accumulated amount. If an SME borrows EUR 1 800 000 once, it is completely excluded. Is that right? Is that the correct interpretation? People sometimes hear different opinions about this. In other words, is the sum made or is it considered per credit agreement each time? On There is also some ambiguity about the interpretation of the scope of that law. The financing law has been introduced for SMEs, but according to the European Court of Justice, non-profit organisations are also covered by that concept. Is the maximum reinvestment fee of six months also applied in the sector to new loans from non-profit organisations? Or do both the sector and the non-profit sector not know this today, which also means that this is not being properly applied? I also wonder whether this may also apply to credit files of local authorities if, according to the European Court of Justice, it also applies to non-profit organisations. This could have an important effect, even if it only applies from January 2014. I have another question that we often see emerging in the doctrine of justice. The question is whether, in some areas, the law does not fail to achieve its objective by demanding a strong formalism in the case of loans. Many of the principles that were or had to be applied in the past have now been formalised. I am thinking of the many documents that creditors and the FSMA have to keep. Of course, this also entails costs and they are inevitably passed on. Moreover, this may slow down the lending process. Do you have any idea whether this is a problem in practice and whether this can possibly be resolved? I'm coming to the reinvestment fee. We are receiving many signals today from SMEs who complain that the law was amended in order to achieve a return investment fee of up to six months from 2014, while they still have expensive loans from 2009 or 2011. Those SMEs are still faced with that very expensive funding loss. I always ask myself the following question. I worked in the sector and at the time I handled some credit files. Some banks applied the principle of funding loss, while others, even then, worked with a reinvestment fee of, for example, six months. In the facts, it has always been noted that even SMEs, even those who in principle are somewhat better informed in financial terms than a typical private individual, chose the rate and did not take that element into account. If the rate was two centimetres cheaper, but there was a funding loss in the file, they chose the standard for that file. The question is therefore whether this principle has been made clear in the past. It is now over, the principle is over, but I think we should learn a lesson from it: if certain contractual obligations are imposed, they must be clearly formulated. For example, one can explicate them with a figure example in order to avoid drama derivatives. After all, it is now seen that SMEs are left with very expensive loans because they simply cannot get rid of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive presentation. This is your baby, you said, but it's also mine; you know that by now. [[Laughter]] Perhaps it would have been better if these words did not appear in the report. In any case, they're meant to be figuratively. [[Laughter]] I'm glad you're taking care of the student entrepreneur, but as I've told you a few times, I'm always happy when you say it won't be long. Now it turns out that the design is almost or completely finished, but still. You promised us it would be all right by the beginning of the academic year. That's already started, so you're a little late again. I hope we won't have to wait much longer. In committee, we have already had a few opportunities to adapt the student-entrepreneur status. However, the majority have not grasped these opportunities. I come to my question. In 2013, the Law on various provisions on financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Laruelle Act, was adopted. It was then decided to make the law non-retroactive. The reason for this was that the government preferred legal certainty and avoided any undesirable economic impact. Anyone who entered into a credit agreement before 10 January 2014 must now count on flexibility because of the banking world. Legal disputes relating to credit agreements prior to 10 January 2014 should be assessed on the basis of the legal provisions at the time and not on the basis of the provisions laid down in the Law of 21 December 2013. However, lenders may, if they so wish, apply the new provisions as good practices. In practice, this goodwill appears to be lacking in banks. While private individuals are allowed to revise credit agreements or early repayment, this does not appear to be the case in practice for small self-employed and SMEs. The funding loss charged to small self-employed and SMEs is much higher than the reinvestment fees paid to private individuals. The law therefore lacks its objective of making funding more accessible to small businesses and small businesses. The law would be reviewed after two years. You'd be working on this. When can we look at the evaluation? Do you intend to use the retroactivity if recommended after evaluation? In fact, it is not the loans after 10 January 2014 that are too expensive for SMEs, but the loans that were entered into before that date. The historically low interest rate, which is likely to remain low, especially in the event of a possible new banking crisis, does not raise the issue of refinancing these loans, but rather of the more expensive pre-2014 loans. The goodwill of the banks is expected, but apparently there is no such goodwill. In the event of forced early repayment of credit due to death or bankruptcy, the banks also charge their high funding redemption fees. I regret that and I would like to hear your reaction to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I apologise for not being able to go through the whole debate, but with this majority the opposition has to work overtime and so it is commuting between different committees. However, I would like to record with you something that I had also included in an oral question a long time ago, the state of employment of the first employee. This is a measure which, in principle and in principle, is a good measure which stimulates our small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a way of reducing the burden on labour. However, I think it would be useful to consider possible consequences in practice which we may not immediately pursue with the measure in question. Also, your own April 2016 communication on the number of success cases in this case prompts me to ask you about the effects of this measure. In the April press release, and at other times, you spoke about new employers. What about the evolution of employers who no longer employ employees and have therefore ceased to be employers? Did it stay constant, or did it go up? Can you provide figures for the same period? You state that "the purpose of the provision is to help a maximum number of self-employed persons take the first step towards initial recruitment." Not all recruitments necessarily mean new jobs. When an employee is first employed by a parent company and then by a self-employed person who works closely with that parent company, a new recruitment has been created but no new job has been created. Do you have any idea how many of these first recruitments were already employed by a related company last year? Is it calculated how much extra employment has been effectively created through this measure? Mr Minister, I would like to put these questions in the debate, but I would ask you to receive a written reply in order to be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive presentation. In committee, we agreed to produce a six-monthly report on the SME plan. It is actually a year since we received an evaluation. I would nevertheless like to propose that the six-monthly presentation of the SME plan be recorded. We have already proposed to record this every time in April and October, and I now call again for the presentation to be recorded again on the first Tuesday of April and October, so that there are just six months in between, ideal for discussing and following up. Mr. Secretary, I have another proposal. Many figures and percentages are given. It might be a little easier to work with a PowerPoint presentation, so we can read the numbers right away. You take the trouble to mention the figures, but for us visualization is easier. A lot of positive things have been said. Many things have been achieved, such as the elimination of the labour cost handicap, the reduction in contributions for the first recruitments, the tax shelter, start-ups, the digital investment deduction, the student entrepreneur's status and the artisan's status. Last week it was announced that unemployed people may be able to combine their unemployment benefit with self-employment. I also mention the flexi jobs we created. Most of these have been achieved thanks to good cooperation with all the relevant ministers. I would also like to congratulate our Minister Johan Van Overtveldt, because many of the issues relating to money are within his remit. In some cases, we really still have to make progress, including in the reform of labour law and, possibly, the Major Act. As far as e-commerce is concerned, the first steps have already been taken, but I think there is still a bit to be done. Indeed, it still appears that the purchase of products via the Internet is usually carried out abroad. I have a few more questions about female entrepreneurship. A number of measures would appear to be added in Article 18a. When will that happen? What are the measures in question? For the calculation of social contributions, there would be a transitional measure for the under-revenue of 2012, 2013 and 2014. I have already asked a number of written questions about this. When will you provide a solution for this? When can the procedures for the right of bridging be expected? The entry into force will take effect on 1 January 2017. You mentioned that earlier. There are still a number of things to be done. Can everything be realized by that date? I also have a question about the combination of an unemployment allowance with the status of self-employed persons in secondary employment. I am in favour of the creation of an additional job for the unemployed. The only question is whether you allow the unemployment allowance to exist on the days on which they work as self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. On those days, they have an income. Will you also pay unemployment benefits for those days? What progress has been made in transforming the status of assisting spouses into co-entrepreneurship? When will the law on payment deadlines be strengthened? The big and strong companies interpret that law in a rather creative way. This is particularly detrimental to small traders and ultimately also to consumers. What is the state of play on the reform of the Order of Architects? When will it be completed? Where are we on the reform and strengthening of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprise? It's about checking the residence fraud? Many invoices are now often unpaid because the correct address cannot be traced. Do you have a plan to deal with the residence fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u6	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u7	You are with the Minister on a number of matters. After all, it is small entrepreneurs who are guilty of office fraud and therefore do things that are not really acceptable. In your last policy paper, you also mentioned the situation of franchisees and of sales at a loss. Can you explain the steps you have already taken in this area? Let me now turn to the question that was actually on the agenda, about the cheaper recruitment of the first entrepreneur. We have recently been confirmed that the government is serious about creating jobs, not only through the media, but also through reports from the National Bank, the Planning Bureau and so on. One of the important measures is to make the recruitment of the first employee cheaper. This measure is part of the so-called reduction in the target population. For the first employee recruited in the period 2016-2020, no patronial basic contribution should be paid for an indefinite period. For the second to the sixth employee there are discounts. However, a survey carried out by Securex in 500 companies has shown that this measure is too little known to entrepreneurs: 63 percent of entrepreneurs do not know the details or contributions, 24 percent are not aware. Only 13% know the discount. However, 37% of entrepreneurs indicate that the measure involved in hiring someone; 27% indicate that this is an incentive to adopt someone this year. Not surprisingly, knowing that the recruitment of the first employee is the most difficult decision for a small entrepreneur. The financial aspect in particular has a clear role to play here. In the first half of the year, however, the number of first recruitments rose by 54%. This indicates the attraction of the economy, but also the fact that a lot of small entrepreneurs recruit people without really knowing the measure. If this measure were to be better known, perhaps even more entrepreneurs would take the step to employ people more quickly and thus further increase the mostly private level of activity. I have the following questions for you. What will you do to make this measure of the reduction in the target population better known? How many people have been recruited since 1 January 2016 in the target group reduction system? If I recall correctly, you did put a figure there earlier today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u8	Minister, as far as the PowerPoint presentation is concerned, you can take an example from Kris Peeters, the PowerPoint specialist in the government. Mrs Winckel, you have three questions. You can intervene in a global way, with any other element you wish to bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation, which I, on the contrary, found very clear. It's good to take stock after eighteen months of the plan put on the table and its 40 measurements. Nevertheless, it is regrettable, as Le Soir did at the end of August 2016, that the first assessment was still somewhat mixed by the fact that some projects were slow to be launched, such as approvals for crowdfunding and fund starter. You told us that this was on track and that very soon Parliament would have new elements. Even at the beginning of the debate on ING and therefore all the collective redundancies we hear or bad news coming from multinationals, we also see how important it is to support entrepreneurs, SMEs and our traders. It is clear that this is the wealth of our country and that this is where there is a new salutary dynamism in terms of employment in particular. Of course, I've heard very good things about female entrepreneurship. I find that the measures that have been taken are exactly in the right direction, as is the case with student entrepreneur status. I would be very interested to see what you are going to develop in this area because, as a reminder, a few months ago, an excellent text had been tabled by my colleague, Mrs Vanheste, against whom, unfortunately, the majority had voted. This is really regrettable because we could have already been in order of march for the last vacation in terms of student jobs. As far as the fight against social dumping is concerned, I had already heard from you, more than a year ago, on the subject. I think it's a little slow compared to what's happening at other levels of power, whether it's at the communal level or the cities that are now taking up the problem with their bodies and where we're working not on the so-called "lessors" but on the so-called "batch" and where we're working at the level of public procurement. You can see that there's a lot of dynamics. I do not see very well how this is going in Flanders, but at the level of the Walloon Region, there is already a whole series of measures that are being taken. It would be a shame if, at the federal level, we were once again late for this issue, which is really vital for our businesses and for our workers. Regarding the evaluation of the law of December 2013, there is also a very interesting element in relation to the financing of our companies. And here I'm linking up with what I said earlier on crowdfunding, which is an important aspect. You haven't advanced a date. A year ago, I asked you a question about it. You replied that you would make the conclusions here in the fall. Here we go. You say "soon", but without providing us with a precise deadline. I wanted to hear from you when these results came to Parliament's table. I'm going to the tax shelter. I had two questions on the subject, but you've already answered one of them. The other was the tax shelter, which you explained the mechanism. The aim is to allow investors to benefit from a tax reduction in the case of direct investment in the capital of SMEs and TPEs. You explained the mechanism well. My question is: why not have this opportunity opened up to the self-employed, whether as a principal or as a complement? What difficulties could this present? Does the government intend, in the short or longer term, to review this part of the plan in order to integrate the self-employed? I have also heard you on an important point concerning the mechanism to recover debts between companies. I'd be interested to know the mechanism you've been thinking about. You said directly that the person who would be the engine of this mechanism would be the judicial officer. I would like to draw your attention to the importance of not creating the same difficulties as those encountered in the collection of amicable debts. We can see the drifts that this can cause in the head of some bailiffs who do not respect the law in this matter. It would be interesting to introduce greater control of the SPF Economy at the level of the practices of judicial officers. I come to my last, more global question. It is related to the Juncker Plan on SMEs. I had dropped it off long before the holidays; unfortunately it dates a little. The figures may be somewhat outdated. At the time, only two industrial projects were approved or in the process of being approved to benefit from this plan, while others were in the pipeline. It was said that only at the time two industrial projects were approved or in the process of being approved in order to benefit from this plan and that others were in the pipeline but that the level of interest of industrialists remained low compared to other European States, but also compared with Belgian SMEs and therefore that 192 Belgian SMEs were indeed supported by the Juncker Plan, 100 SMEs for Flanders and 92 for Wallonia. Of the 192 SMEs selected, none came from the Brussels Capital Region. Why do you think? Why today the Belgian industrialists do not seem more interested in the Juncker Plan? What reasons could be used to explain the difference of interest between industrialists in other European countries and Belgian companies? Do you intend to take action to address this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u10	Mr President, I think a lot has already been said. I wanted to thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and clear presentation and thank the various stakeholders. I think we've painted different themes, so I'll be pretty short and brief. I am going to put a question today in relation to non-exporting Belgian SMEs. The questions were pretty simple so the proposal made... I'm not going to say the whole context again. You know what I'm talking about, minister. I would therefore like to know, in relation to the plan and the proposals, have you discussed them with the Regions? What were the criteria that different SMEs had to meet in order to benefit from these tax advantages? I think that if we want a strong economy, we also need an export economy. Belgium has always worked in this direction and I wanted to have your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive briefing. Listening to you, I want to tell you, minister, you're playing a little bit of the "sir good news" of this federal government. Unfortunately, you're very alone. But it is true that there are interesting figures, positive results and positive measures. You have reviewed it, whether it is the reduction of contributions on the first jobs, the female entrepreneurship, the social status, the right to access, the future reform of student entrepreneurs, the reforms that we supported with my group Ecolo-Groen. It must be recognised that, indeed, in many areas, there is progress, and it is also important to stress this, even from the opposition benches. I also wanted to highlight in particular the social status of the self-employed, a matter which not only holds us very close to heart, but which will become increasingly important with the evolution of the economy as we know it today. Of course, I hear everything about digitization, digitalization, the roboticization of the economy as we hear it, and the growing emergence of the collaborative economy. As we know, all projections show, moreover, whether we want it or not, the number of independents will increase drastically in the years and decades to come, not only in Belgium but in most economies. If I remember correctly, it's about 1.1 million. In recent years, we have seen a marked increase and, in my view, this trend will only be confirmed. The social status of the self-employed is a crucial issue since more and more people will likely have several jobs. Grouping structures will have to be put in place to ensure a social net for these multi-tasking, multi-job independents – with quality jobs, hopefully. We are moving towards a world – news reminded us in a very violent way this week – with more and more independent and independent people. This is something that I wanted to highlight. As far as all your measures are concerned, I would like to tell you that, overall, the major problem arises from these measures, from their financing, which is decided in the Committee on Finance or within your Government. And everyone knows that from a budgetary point of view, the news is not good at all. On the contrary, since we are talking about a $4.2 billion hole in the federal budget! It is clear that this situation is not only the result of the SME Plan. But it would still be interesting to know what the total cost of the measures you have presented to us is. That said, many of your measures are interesting, and they have been supported. As ecologists often repeat, the funding of these measures is a problem. Of course, you are not directly questioned here because you are not competent in this matter. In any event, have you calculated the total cost of the SME Plan that you presented to us today? I also wanted to go back to a series of areas where we could do more and better. I call it encouragements or points to improve, if I may. These are points on which we could move in the same spirit that drives this committee, which is positive and constructive. I have taken up some examples of proposals that we have made or intend to make in the near future, including areas that we believe are lacking. We talked about female entrepreneurship. We also tabled a text on paternity leave for self-employed persons. I hope that we can have a constructive discussion and move forward in this area which concerns families, independents. The number of self-employed is growing sharply. It is important that dads can not only help their mates but also participate in the first days when the family grows. Another subject that we are interested in is the reduction of corporate taxes for SMEs. Again, it is not your direct responsibility, but it is fundamental to review our tax system and certainly to focus on SMEs, because, as we know, they do not have the means, resources or tax engineering to go for all tax deductions from notional interests. It is known that this mainly benefits large companies. Let us therefore support our SMEs in the tax field. You spoke about it today and we will support you in your efforts to develop the system of employer groups that is totally under-used in us. Again, for TPEs and SMEs who do not have the structure to hire a collaborator on their own, it is important to develop and facilitate the use of employer groups. A subject that we are also very passionate about and that we would like to find more in your Plan is entrepreneurship and diversity, in addition to women's entrepreneurship. I know you've already talked about this in committee. So it's not completely absent from your thoughts, if I'm not mistaken. You'll tell us. But it is at the heart of your policies, because we know the problems, especially in Brussels. I am Brussels, but the problem also arises in other big cities. It is important to develop entrepreneurship in certain specific sectors of our youth in Brussels and certainly in other major cities. Finally, what about COP21? I have been very attentive to your presentation and have not heard anything about sustainable development, circular economy, functionality. It also concerns other levels of power, but I think that the federal government must be able to give a stronger, more proactive boost to fiscal incentives, in terms of financing or research and development for this emerging and sustainable economy that is needed if we are to achieve the objectives we signed in Paris last year. The environment and COP21 are the big ones missing from your SME Plan. I have a few more detailed questions. As far as the SME tax shelter is concerned, several press articles showed that a request for information had appeared in the head of several business angels associations; however, there are few concrete results, few cases result. Do you have any analysis on this? We're talking about a lack of information for savers. Do banks play their role sufficiently to promote this system? Collecting savings to finance businesses seems to me to be an interesting principle. With regard to crowdfunding platforms, the approval criteria have not yet been established, although they have been announced in the context of the SME tax shelter. What's the status of this case? When will they be finalized? At the level of these platforms, there is a fairly strong expectation of the sector. The second more detailed question I would like to ask you is the "zero contribution for life" measure for the first job. I had already questioned you in January and April of this year on two points. First of all, I asked you for the results of this particular measure. I do not know if we can isolate the number of jobs that have been created through this measure. Maybe you said it, but I missed it, because you gave a lot of employment figures. On this measure, do we already have figures for the first nine months of the year? Then I asked you about the fears of unfair competition expressed by some entrepreneurs: "He who just started his business, and who is going to hire in 2016, will have an advantage that I, who may have hired in December or November of last year, will not have." Have any complaints been filed? Have there been any difficulties in this case? Did you still have to process requests from certain sectors? The third point I want to address concerns flexi-jobs. For the moment, this measure has been implemented in the Horeca, but you have repeatedly announced that you would like to extend it to other sectors. What about this flexi-job measure? Do you intend to implement it in other areas? How do you evaluate flexi-jobs in the Horeca today? As far as we are concerned, we have very great reservations in terms of the precariousness of work and the financing of social security. I would like both the assessment in the Horeca and your intentions in relation to the other sectors concerning these flexi-jobs on which we have the greatest fears. I'm going to pay late. It is well known that the federal government is neither the best payer nor the fastest for SMEs and TPEs. This can even go as far as some bankruptcies because of the lack of liquidity. Do you intend to put in place specific measures to speed up the federal government's payment deadlines? Finally, an issue which has already been raised by some colleagues, but which is also important to us: the problem of funding loss when entrepreneurs want to refinance their credit, especially now, given the extremely low current rates. A real problem exists in relation to the fees charged by the bank to do so. What measures do you intend to take at this level? You referred to the law of 12 December 2013, which came into force in 2014. Since then, progress has been made, but some companies have been under the previous regime. How could you make things easier, or force banks to stop claiming these re-employment benefits? This blocks many entrepreneurs in their desire to invest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presentation today and for reporting on the SME plan. As you know, you certainly have a partner for the implementation of your SME plan to our group. Much more has already been done on the implementation of the SME plan over a reasonable period of time, i.e. one year. Wji certainly congratulate you on the actions already carried out. However, we are also asking to keep the remaining implementation of the SME plan on the agenda in the coming years and to make effective work of it. In the case of a number of measures taken by you, I have additional comments or questions. With regard to the reform of social contributions and their evaluation, you have made a state of play. I assume we will also receive your reply in writing. After all, you have given a whole series of figures on the evolution of the number of contributions and the changes in this respect. It would therefore be useful if we were to receive them in writing. You have reported that the monitoring committee does very regularly, namely quarterly monitoring of the evaluation and reform of social contributions. You pointed out, however, that, apart from monitoring and follow-up, there will be an effective evaluation. I assume she'll be here soon. Can you clarify the timing of the effective evaluation of the reform of social contributions? With regard to your proposals and actions to promote female entrepreneurship, we are of course very pleased that, in the meantime, there is the extension of maternity rest, as well as a number of other measures that you have taken for that part. First of all, I would like to ask what is the state of play regarding the introduction of the barometer at the FPS Economy. I didn't hear you say anything about that earlier. Maybe you mentioned it, but at least I didn't hear it. You would set up a barometer in this area to monitor female entrepreneurship and to assess the impact of measures taken for female entrepreneurship. What is the state of play on the creation of a family supporter? What view do you have on that? I hear you're interested in that. It is one of the dossiers you include in the context of female entrepreneurship. That too I can only encourage and support. I am in favour of further work being done on the family support. Could you explain that more? What are you trying to do and what steps are you going to take? You have given a full account of the proposals to combat poverty and the exemption from social security contributions. The current decision-making period for the Commission for exemption from contributions is currently around six months. That period has been greatly shortened. That's very good. Great efforts have already been made, but the six-month period is still fairly long. Both you and Parliament agree on this. I would very much like to see that decision-making period shortened even further. What time limit do you opt for? What's your purpose? What's feasible? At what time can you further shorten the decision-making period? Several colleagues have spoken about the status of student entrepreneurs and about the extension of bankruptcy insurance. I can only welcome these initiatives. CD&V is a requesting party to introduce it as soon as possible. I hear the statute would be operational by January 2017. We will gladly await your draft laws on these two issues. Finally, access to finance for SMEs. You have also made quite a report on this. I am pleased to learn that ten thousand SMEs have participated voluntarily in a survey, a questionnaire from the FPS on the needs and needs of SME debt financing and in particular bank financing. Today, with the bad news from the banking sector, the financial sector, this is all the more an acute moment to consider the needs and needs of SMEs in this transformation of the banking sector. This must also be an element in the government's discussion on the transformation of the financial sector. So, yes, I'd like a sequel to this story. You announced that a process and further initiatives will follow after the questionnaire. Again, we expect further initiatives on better bank financing as well as on access to alternative financing. It would be good to have an assessment of the effects of government initiatives on crowdfunding and alternative funding in the near future. Have many SMEs and self-employed persons found their way to that crowd financing? Has this had an effect on better financing, both for the self-employed and for SMEs? It would be useful to be able to measure these effects and to know whether there is still a way to improve crowdfunding, or whether there is more need for the ordinary instruments of financing or bank financing. I am also told that you also want to work on support for the local trade, which I can only welcome. I hope that you will also take into account some of the questions and suggestions I made to the government in my resolution on the daily trade. A few weeks ago, a hearing was held here with a number of representatives from the daily trade sector and others. The follow-up to the resolution on the daily trade must certainly be given a place in the organisation of the work. I am looking forward to further initiatives to support local trade and daily trade. I hope that you will also take effective account of the questions raised in that resolution. In addition to the effects of the government's initiatives on crowdfunding, I would also like to know the effects of the platform economy and sharing economy arrangements. In spring, a number of fiscal and financial changes were made to support that collaborative economy and platform economy. I have always said that the effects on the social status of self-employed workers must also be taken into account. These changes were made not so long ago, but against the next report I would like to know what impact they have on the status of self-employed workers. I am thinking here of the financing of the social status of self-employed persons and of possible changes in behaviour or the adoption of a certain statute for new start-ups and those who wish to take initiative. Finally, I would like to say that I welcome the follow-up to this SME plan. Both Parliament and the government will be able to stick to the lesson and follow up on a number of things. I think that reporting certainly leads to further action in a number of areas. I can only support that report and the question that Mr Janssen has already asked a few times about a regular update of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u13	Minister, I think a lot of questions have been asked. I will focus on two elements for which I would have liked to have additional information. I will hear the other answers you would like to give my colleagues. You have had the elegance to say that many projects in the SME Plan have been adopted unanimously. We have indeed joined many of your proposals or bills that have come to the table of Parliament, because for us, too, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also self-employed and very small enterprises, are indeed the subject of an important step. It is the active body, I would say, of our country's economy. Of course, we want to support them. For an hour, Mr. Minister, you made an assessment of the situation. You mentioned a number of figures, your plans, the elements of your policy. I'll take note of that. I imagine we will be able to read the note you read to us carefully. As far as I am concerned, I would like to make two points, in addition to those of my colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to the growing importance of digital technology in trade, in the work of the self-employed or in the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, and to the need to support this approach with entrepreneurs, traders and self-employed. This is an important step, but it must take place in parallel with an approach that is physically present in the territory where it takes place, i.e. the window of a trade. In addition to the physical purchase of the products and their visualization, there must be an opportunity to buy in the context of e-commerce, but a number of traders do not cross the course, for fear first of all, because of lack of knowledge of e-commerce and fear of the security of transactions. I therefore really insist on this approach, which I believe is important. Minister, yesterday's events remind us of the importance of digitization. This has been mentioned today and will be mentioned here in the context of the ING problem. I would really like to see this form of accompaniment and training in e-commerce and digital. The second element is that in very small enterprises there are also non-market enterprises which employ a number of activities which fall within the business sector. I would therefore like to stress, as one of my colleagues has done, the importance of the groups of employers and those groups of employers who make services available to one or the other company, whether it is a merchant or not, and which also cause economic activity to run. Non-market enterprises require a number of services, mainly in terms of insurance, delivery, accounting and personnel management. As the bill is currently being drafted with respect to employer groups, I would like you to be careful not to restrict the activity of employer groups. They do a very important service where they are. They are also called upon to develop in a meaningful way, which could render a more important service to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u14	Mr President, my speech will be very short. In the discussion on the collaborative economy that we had before the summer, we had the discussion on the status, etc., that had been put in place and the new tax system. We had, I think almost unanimously, asked for a day of study. I think it was you who offered it. In any case, it should be possible to do a kind of seminar, afternoon or morning of study, on the subject, with the consequences on the employment, wage-earning and the status of tomorrow's work. I wanted to recall this element that was discussed at the time and see if something concrete was in the boxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for your reactions and your questions and for their generally positive tone, both on the part of the majority and the opposition. I also welcome your willingness to see us continue our work. Mr Janssen must have left us, but I will pass on all the encrypted documents so that everyone can have them. If you have any questions after reading them, do not hesitate to ask me. Mr President, I, who always take my colleagues as a model, will be able to have a PowerPoint next time. I'll try to answer the questions. As far as the first commitments are concerned, the figures currently available are based on a projection by the Union of Social Secretariats. For the first half of 2016, compared to the first half of 2015, this projection devotes an increase of just over 24% in the number of first-time employers. A first-time employer is someone who, for the first time, hires a worker. This means, therefore, that for the first half of 2015, there were 7,893 first-time employers and that there were, for the same half of 2016, 9,805, that is, 1,912 first-time employers in addition. These figures are based on a projection of the social secretariats. I am told that I will be able to confirm these figures by the ONSS, and I will be able to have figures fully validated by the ONSS. There is – and this is legitimate – a slight time lag. The ONSS, according to the information I have, will tend to confirm these figures, which should even be a little more positive. I will then have the figures by Region, by province. I will of course communicate them to you as soon as they are available and exploitable. Secondly, you are right in the sense that it may be considered that a form of competition could be exercised in relation to persons who have engaged, before these measures, a first worker, a second or a third worker. It should be noted that reductions were already planned for a total of 13 previous quarters (five quarters, then two times four): €1,550 per quarter for the first five quarters, 1,050 for the next four and 450 for the last four. So we're not starting from a situation where there was nothing before and now there's everything. Evolution takes into account the fact that there was something already. For 2015, a transitional measure provides that there is no principal employer contribution for the remaining quarters up to a maximum of thirteen quarters calculated under the old plan. Suppose Mr. Vanden Burre hired someone in the last quarter of 2015. He was therefore entitled, for his first worker under the former regime, to thirteen quarters of reduction. The transitional measure is expected to calculate the remaining quarters beginning in early 2016. A quarter ended in 2015 as the commitment was made in the last quarter of that year; therefore, 12 quarters remain. During these twelve quarters, i.e. for three years, he will be able to benefit from the zero contribution measure. It is therefore not of indefinite duration, but it still lasts three years. There is therefore a transitional measure for the first commitments in 2015. We couldn't go back because our goal is to try to influence the present and the future, not to rewrite the past. Instead, the budget was intended to support commitment, reductions in social contributions, for the future and not for the past. I understand that in part. But in fact, I do not see a shift in economic activity as some have expressed fear of it. In a while, I will ask the SPF Economy to do a very thorough analysis of it. I would now like to address Mr Werner Janssen. Sir, I believe that your comment is correct. The measure is not yet known enough, even if the media have talked about it, even if you have asked me in parliament, even if the figures have been disseminated. The measure therefore still needs to be the subject of efforts in terms of communication and explanations. Moreover, I have also heard a lot of things. According to some, it would take five years. However, this is not correct since this measure will cover an indefinite period of time. However, it concerns the first commitment until 31 December 2020. Indeed, it was decided that it would not be in force forever because its budgetary impact must be assessed. It is therefore about all the first commitments since January 2016 and until 31 December 2020. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not making a commitment – who would I be, by the way, to do that? – as to what will be proposed to new hires from 2021. In summary, this measure will not apply for five years, but for an indefinite period for the first five years. I'll give you the ONSS figures in the next few days. We will therefore mobilize social secretariats, specialized media, accounting experts, tax professionals who also have specialized publications, etc. We will return to the offensive so that the measure is more widely known. We will also see what happens to the first employers. I am convinced, for my part, that a number of them will make a second, a third or even a fourth commitment. Together with the Plan Office, we will ensure that the measure is properly isolated. I do not claim that it is this zero contribution measure that justifies everything. But we have had figures for four years. We found that the number of first-time employers varied very little. There has been a change of less than a thousand from year to year over the past five years. Subsequently, they increased by 24 per cent. According to ONSS figures, that would be a little more. A trigger effect has therefore occurred. We want additional commitments. I insist: reductions in social contributions have slipped from the second to the sixth worker. Clearly, what was applicable from the first to the fifth until the end of 2015 simply slipped from the second to the sixth worker in order to deepen the reductions in contributions and to include the latter. In the majority of cases, these provisions are in addition to regional measures. Let us say it together to SMEs and the self-employed: there have never been so many measures that are more conducive to engagement. I am talking about the cumulation of provisions. I am open and take into account the initiatives taken by my counterparts. If you don't hire now, I don't see when you'll do it if you're an independent or an SME boss and you're in an economic situation that allows you to do so. Secondly, I turn to the provision on the Financing Act and its evaluation. In this regard, I would first like to point out that interpretations of the law vary. As regards, in particular, the understanding of these six months of re-employment allowance and the EUR 1 million you mentioned, it is provided that the law contains rules on the procedure for fixing the re-employment premium which the lender is entitled to require from the borrower when the borrower decides to repay the loan in advance. This applies: for appropriations not exceeding EUR 1 million, the re-employment allowance may not exceed six months' interest. It is therefore the initial amount that is concerned. If the credit is then changed, it is always the initial amount that is affected. The six-month allowance shall be calculated according to the amount of interest provided for in the contractual provisions. Article 16 of the Act provides for a range of unfair terms that are considered null and void if they were in the contract. I am not going to read them all to you, but these clauses are, by definition, considered inapplicable. With regard to this provision, what is my approach? My approach is to say that we're going to evaluate it completely. We take all the relevant opinions, especially in the light of your experience. If there are other parliamentarians who have an opinion on the 2013 law, let them send me their analysis, their opinion. If such a circle of reflection is leading or has led to a reflection, do not hesitate to feed us. We met with Febelfin on the subject. Indeed, a large study was carried out involving 10,000 SMEs. On this basis, we will come with a proposal to move forward in the direction of business protection but – I am not naive, I see how we can evolve within the framework of certain rules – avoiding taking steps too far, it seems to me. The entire evaluation of the law was the subject of an order published in the Monitor. A very clear legal procedure has been established. The second part concerns the tax shelter. The aim is also for companies to have alternatives. Werner, you're right. I will not, of course, mention all my colleagues, but we are working on this issue with the guidance of my colleague and friend, the Minister of Finance. The goal is also to have an alternative, another possibility. If we are dissatisfied with what traditional banking agencies, para-public and other organizations offer, I can also turn to alternative financing. I would point out that today only direct participation in a company's capital is applicable. According to the 2016 returns and the codes of the Ministry of Finance, there are a total of 851 returns that have taken back amounts to qualify for the tax deduction for participation in capital. The tax rate is 45 per cent if one takes an interest in the capital of a very small enterprise; 30 per cent if it is already a small enterprise within the meaning of Article 15 of the Corporate Code. I think it's normal that there's 851. The full scheme will be there - the law is gone, I signed it with Johan Van Overtveldt – when all the vehicles, platforms of Crowdfunding, fund starters, etc. will have their statutes approved by the FSMA. I think with Mr. Van Overtveldt and other colleagues, we will really do a campaign to promote the tool, we will be able to say that a mobilisation of private capital is possible towards private investment projects, towards the self-employed who form capital. I would also like to point out that it is possible to make a loan for the self-employed through the provision which makes it possible to lend up to EUR 15 000 with a neutralisation of the interest income for the lender. As soon as the law is in order, the statutes of financing platforms and starter funds must still be approved by the FSMA. FSMA has six weeks to validate files introduced by platforms. I expect the platforms to be operational at the beginning of 2017. Direct participation is operational. It is not possible to invest in the capital of an independent because its capital does not exist. Therefore, a company must exist, whether it has legal personality, in order to take shares or shares in the capital and benefit from this measure. We have taken further steps with regard to the self-employed. We have an important work on corporate tax reform. We are not going to talk about it now because we need a new committee with slides. But in Johan's proposal, which I strongly support, and in the government's deliberations, there were in particular the elements of support and complementary benefits for SMEs. In the discussions there is also an employment dimension, which I think is extremely important, which I strongly support, like the SME dimension. I would be in complete discourtesy if I now put on the table of our committee the state of affairs this morning of the discussion on corporate tax. Corporate tax is 14 billion in revenue, I would remind you. It's a changeover, it's a very important reform. This is one of the very important meetings concerning the support of economic activity and the shift of a niche policy, which was for the most part our policy at present, towards a change in nominal rate reduction but with a number of levers, jobs, starters, small businesses and also the maintenance of certain deductions for investments. This is a very important and complex issue, of course, a major issue of the legislature which I support. I was asked about the Juncker plan. I confess that I am not the one piloting this case, but I have some figures here. I think it was Mrs Winckel who asked me questions. I don't know if she's still here, but I propose that these figures be passed on to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u16	Mrs Winckel has gone to the Public Health Committee to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u17	Several members informed me that they had to leave us. I have no problem with that. The figures relating to the Juncker Plan will be transmitted to the Commission. With regard to the internationalisation of SMEs, it is clear that exports are a regional competence. Of course, I'm not going to interfere with a skill that's not mine. We have work to do, especially for start-ups and smaller businesses. In particular, I have proposed the implementation of an important promotion action for the Ducroire. We are preparing a tour across the country to make the Ducroire known to SMEs, to mobilize small businesses that will come to explain their work internationally, what this has brought them. I have also put on the table the possibility of amending the provisions in force today, in particular concerning workers dedicated to the international community; or even the introduction of a tax deduction for the employment of a worker linked to the international community. We will see all this in the context of ISOC. I think there is really a lot of mobilisation here, which of course we have to do in consultation with some colleagues. With regard to payment deadlines, it should be noted that there has been a great deal of effort in the justice system to address payment arrears. There was just over EUR 100 million, much of which was before the beginning of this legislature. Unfortunately, we must note that we continue not to be among the best students in the European class. Reform of the 2002 law on late payment of commercial transactions is necessary. Above all, it must find a solution to the current regulatory deadline, so that it can be met in practice. This matter is the competence of no less than six ministers! Here too, there is a need for concerted action! Mr de Lamotte, we have done a lot of work on business groups with Kris Peeters. Our proposal is that the grouping of employers can also benefit companies which come from the economic sector in the strict sense but also from the social economy. We have a broad view of the definition of the economy in order to be able to apply the groups of employers. Our goal is to blow the limit of ten workers. The time limit for authorisation is currently limited to 12 months and we hope that it will no longer be retained. The renewal or approval of a group of employers will no longer have to be prior and will be monitored ex post by the departments of the Ministry. We're working on this with Kris Peeters. The reform of contributions is a matter that we are very cautious about because we are talking about large amounts of money, about 4 billion. I would not like to come back to you and say that we have been unwise in the management of these financial aspects. We work closely with the Monitoring Committee. There are two things I absolutely want to settle. Part of the self-employed are victims of the transition from one reform to the other because they were unable to see their contributions adapted to the fall in their income. In a few days' time, I will propose to the government a transitional measure allowing the persons concerned to benefit from a reduction in their social contributions. BC was consulted on this issue. I have also consulted many times with UNIZO, UCM and the representative structures. I propose to add four thresholds in order to adapt its social contributions as best as possible to the presumed amount of its income. Today, we propose only two thresholds and we can still be quite far from the system. In the near future, we will receive guidance on regularisations following the reform. We will have robust figures on which to base ourselves. We have a proposal for a transitional regime and we propose to add four thresholds so that the self-employed are fully satisfied. The ondersteuner, the support entrepreneur, is a feature of women's entrepreneurship. I would point out that in the survey on women's entrepreneurship, the first of the demands is to be able to better reconcile family and working life. To this end, maternity leave measures come into force at the end of this year. The other element is this support scheme, my goal is to create a specific status as a support contractor, a whole new status, like that of the student-entrepreneur, if I may say so. This person could intervene alongside the self-employed person concerned either for professional tasks or for domestic tasks in order for the self-employed person to manage to reconcile the two. It's a very nice reform. I know that many political organizations and families are attached to it. We will therefore move forward in our reflection in this regard. Allow me not to reveal myself too much at this point, because I know it's a little tricky. In any case, the status of the student-entrepreneur and that of the ondersteuner, as well as the reflection on diversity entrepreneurship, are among our priorities. First of all, we want to bring into force everything that is currently on the table, in particular the right of access to which I will remind you of the various principles. For the right of access, the allowance of 1,460 euros or 1,168 euros - depending on whether the self-employed person is dependent or not - will be valid for a period of up to 12 months. I would add that the rights will be preserved. Why twelve months? Because it is based on the number of quarters during which we were independent before. I wanted to avoid a situation where the candidate was self-employed for a short period of time to benefit almost automatically from the right of access due to economic cessation. This situation will prevail if a social contribution exemption has been granted, if incomes below a threshold of 13,000 euros have been available, or if a partial beneficiary of an integration income has been granted. We have received the opinion of the Council of State. So we will soon meet again, Mr President, to discuss this very new right, which I believe is an important step forward for the independents. You know my policy is that of stap voor stap. I do not rule out the development of a "plus" right of way when we have properly assessed the first one. Someone asked me a question about supplementary unemployment. We have the possibility of cumulating with unemployment benefits, with a maximum, but there is an important element on which I would like to draw your attention. The status is limited to 12 months. This authorization is truly overbrugginsperiod. Twelve months, then it's over. Either we are independent on a complementary basis – and therefore no more allocation – or the activity is not confirmed and in this case we cannot continue to accumulate. As far as the Commission is concerned, the aim is to give the answer within three months. Currently, files are processed in just under six months (five months and two-thirds). But we also need to redesign our administrations and our institutes, which will also have to be taken into account. As far as the deeleconomy is concerned, I fully agree. Orders must be finalized by my colleague the Minister of Finance. We have tried to find something balanced with regard to the aspiration to recognize the new economy and – as you have rightly said – the fact that we do not discriminate against the traditional independents, if I may say so. That is why we have limited it to EUR 5 000, that there is still a 25% levy and that, moreover, in the notification of the government's decision, I have been given a mandate to come with an additional measure for the benefit of the traditional independents. I still have to tell you that we are analysing the status of supplementary self-employed. Between 250,000 and 270,000 self-employed persons carry out their activities on a complementary basis. The ECB is responsible for a wide range of evaluations on supplementary self-employment status. Here too, a number of proposals will be submitted to you. I have also taken note of the proposal on paternity leave. You told me that when you asked me about current issues a few months ago. As far as the barometer is concerned, in all sincerity, we have received a proposal for a barometer from our administration. As it did not seem to us to be at the point, we therefore asked to rework it. I think that by the beginning of November, we should be able to propose it to you. As far as the student entrepreneur is concerned, you're right. I've fallen a little behind my hopes. I confess, Mr. President, sometimes I'm late for my hopes. I don't know if it's because I'm really late or because I'm too far ahead of my hopes. Here, this delay will only be a few weeks. Guys, I'm counting on you! I read or see that in a number of universities in Ghent, Liège, etc., or in higher schools, many initiatives are being taken concerning entrepreneurship, the course, the setting up of structures with the economic world outside the school, etc. I am sure that we will have several hundred student entrepreneurs and that in this large group of student entrepreneurs, some will have the taste to stay a student for a while and above all become an entrepreneur afterwards. If others choose another career, it's very good too, and it's quite honorable. I also congratulate them. But through this incubator of student entrepreneurs, I am convinced that we will have a number of entrepreneurs in the future. I don't know if we're going to do it again every six months, but I'm at the disposal of Parliament. In any case, if we see each other again in ten years' time, Mr President, I am sure that we will find among these student entrepreneurs, one or the other company owner who has really created a beautiful company in terms of activity, innovation in a classic sector, or with a social dimension, and who has done good things for society and the economy. And that will be my greatest happiness. I therefore urge each other to promote this status as an entrepreneur student. We have just received the opinion of the Council of State. We'll pass it on to you. We have a great collective work to share if you agree. I've probably forgotten one element or the other, but I'll give you all the numbers you want. I had said in the contract for a co-entrepreneur, in sheet 17, that I had instructed the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers to send me a study. It's for 2017. A big thank you to everyone. I am obviously available for other questions, for remarks, ideas and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u18	Thank you very much to the Minister of Good News, who gives us an appointment in ten years! But in the immediate future, are there any requests for reply? [[No]] I therefore close this exchange of views by thanking you, Minister, for the many detailed answers you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u19	Could we take a two-minute health break and then follow up on a series of questions until about 5:30 p.m.? Can this program suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u20	Mr President, I am available to deliver the answers to all those who would like to have them immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u21	Some colleagues have turned their question into a written question and others have asked to postpone it. The secretariat should be contacted to indicate whether questions are deferred or transformed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u22	I'll leave it to you to take stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u23	Mr. Pivin requested the postponement of his three questions (Nos. 12438, 12439 and 12618). Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 12527 question is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval (Commission); Mr Clarinval (Commission); Mr Clarinval (Commission); Mr Clarinval Mr Vanden Burre requested that his question No 13840 be transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u24	Mr President, Minister, your SME plan may not have mentioned agriculture. That is not really the case either, because agriculture is part of the European story, but I would like to thank you for the efforts you have already made for agriculture. We hope that you will continue to defend the concerns that we always put forward, and that you will continue to press for a number of concrete measures. Those measures are reflected in my questions. My first question concerns the structural reduction in production in dairy farming. At a meeting in Warsaw in preparation for the European Agriculture Council in Poland, Poland, Germany and France agreed on a financial stimulus from Europe to allow dairy farmers to reduce production, which is completely non-committal and encouraged. Those Member States are counting on the European Commission to release additional resources to fight the crisis. You yourself said that you were satisfied that countries were finally voting in favour of this position. I would like to thank you once again for defending that line in Europe. However, our line continues. What if these financial incentives for farmers are abolished? In any case, there must be less production in a structural way. I therefore ask you what European approach you believe is necessary to bring long-term productivity and hence structural to the level of market equilibrium. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I have recently asked you about possible ways out of the milk crisis. It was agreed that the European Agriculture Council on Monday 27 June would be devoted to this at the request of several Member States, including Belgium. Minister, what leads have been put on the table to get out of the milk crisis? Some of them are known, but I would like to know how they are implemented on the ground. What are the prospects for the future? Some of the leads you're supporting are certainly being explored. Could you give us an update on this? What durable solutions can they bring? I read another article yesterday in an agricultural newspaper. It is clear that the sector is really questioning the issue of milk. You have also been able to discuss the ineffectiveness of Article 222 of the European Regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products in view of the lack of related incentives. Minister, my question is dated 30 June, just after the European Council. So could you now take stock of the situation in this dairy sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u26	My next question is in line with Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's. What has been decided at the European Agriculture Council? Measures have been proposed to stabilise the dairy market. Until now, this has often been done with compensations for private dairy storage. That's actually not the right way to go. We've been over that a few times. European farmers increased their milk production by 5.6 % between January and April 2016 compared to last year in order to increase their income. Agriculture Commissioner Hogan remains committed to private storage. In addition, a further EUR 350 million will be made available, including EUR 11 million for Belgium, to meet the worst financial needs in the long term. In addition, EUR 150 million will be used to temporarily reduce European milk production. That is a step in the right direction. This responds to the call made by the Member States. The question is whether this will continue to produce results in the long term. The European Member States are free to double the European crisis aid themselves. How did the consultations at the European Summit take place? What are your views on the proposal that, as a Member State, if necessary, European crisis aid should be doubled? Are your fellow Members taking an initiative to double that amount? This is certainly not the case in Flanders. Has there been any discussion on this? Why does Mr Hogan always opt for subsidies for private storage, even if that does not solve the problem? A historic agreement was reached last year. The dairy farmer received a temporary supplement, which was passed on to the consumer. Since after the end of the supplement there was no price reduction for the consumer and the producer did not receive any more money, the question arises as to who then walks away with the additional price. The intention was to make the sector resilient and to focus on a fairer pricing policy, but if at the end of the one-off supplement the price of a litre of milk in the supermarket does not fall and the producer price does not rise, questions arise. You promised to bring together the partners in the chain talks after the holiday to discuss this. Is that what happened? What's gotten into this meeting? In France there has been a lot of protest from dairy farmers. In the end, an agreement was concluded with the dairy processor Lactalis in which the milk price was increased. At the end of the year, a price of EUR 30 should be paid. This would mean an additional EUR 150 million for farmers in France. That's a nice concession from Lactalis. The economic climate is not great. Since the beginning of the measurements in 2007, a dairy farmer, according to Flemish figures, has never gained as little income per 100 litres of milk produced as in the second quarter of this year. Milcobel has maintained his prices. There is some relief in the sector, because there is a cautious rise in prices. In August it was 25.8 euros per 100 litres, which is far from the 32 euros, which are needed to reach even a moment's notice. There is still very little or no profit. It's heading in the right direction. In any case, we must try to sustain this positive trend so that we can guarantee our farmers a viable income. Minister, are there any possibilities to facilitate further negotiations with the sector in order to find a good solution for all concerned? My next question concerns the position of the farmer in the food chain. Following the informal Agriculture Council in Slovakia, the European umbrella of agricultural organisations has called for the fight against unfair trade practices in the food chain. That sounds very familiar to me. The organisation advocates a transparent and well-functioning chain whereby agreements are made that are covered by an enforcement system, in which sanctions can be applied. The agreements within the chain are now very non-binding. It is a good thing that people are asking for it at European level. Many European countries already have their own legislation on this issue. It is old news that farmers' incomes often do not even cover production costs, making them systematically lose. The reason for this is, among other things, the lack of bargaining power of farmers and the constant pressure of the retail sector to reduce product prices. I have tabled a legislative proposal which seeks to introduce a ban on the abuse of that significant dominant position and which allows competition authorities to monitor its compliance and to confirm the necessary safeguards for the independence of the investigation. If the Member States agree that the farmer is the weakest link in the food chain, that confirms what we think. The Agriculture Council and the European Commission now want to examine whether it is possible to introduce European legislation, which would be a nice addition to national legislation. Minister, how concrete are the plans for such European legislation? What is your view on this? Minister Phil Hogan has announced that he wants to introduce some kind of insurance principle into the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. More specifically, it wants to establish an income stability tool in which Member States can shape the instrument and make it a policy instrument that can enter into force in the event of a market dip. Both the Member States and the European Parliament still have to agree to the conditions so that the tool can be developed. In fact, they want it to be in force by 2018. Do you see how the instrument can be put into practice in our country? Are there discussions on this matter with the agricultural organizations or are they being launched? Mr Minister, next question comes from an article by Fedagrim, an article that made me think more than ever about the state of our agriculture. An online survey of 1 130 Belgian farmers tells us that four out of ten farmers think they should stop their activities by 2026. Structural problems are causing the jobs of thousands of farmers and suppliers to be called into question. I am not in any way satisfied with this analysis, especially since farmers are and will continue to provide basic food requirements. According to Fedagrim, a farmer has an average income of less than EUR 1 000 per month and a working week of between 68 and 80 hours per week. I believe that there is also, above all, a lack of appreciation from our society, our society. They want the government to do more to guarantee a fair price. It is not surprising, if you read that, that four out of ten farmers will no longer be able to work in the sector within ten years. That price is recovering, but it really is not enough. The tide must turn to keep farmers on board. The only way to do this is to take structural measures. Can you give an update on structural measures taken at federal level or in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u27	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the various questions I am going to answer globally, if you will. I'll start by sketching the context. As you know, the situation in our dairy farms is disastrous, due to falling prices. Indeed, the real milk price in August 2016 was 25,86 euro cents per litre. We are seeing a decrease of a little more than 35.3 % since the start of the Russian embargo in August 2014. However, there are two signs of hope, even if the current situation remains very critical. I'll be careful. A first element is production, which has tended to stabilise since June 2016, compared to the same period last year. In addition, prices for some dairy products have increased sharply since April 2016. For example, the price of butter rose by 40%, while for skimmed milk powder it rose by 17%. For public intervention, in the form of storage, more than EUR 580 million has already been made available, pre-financed by the Member States. No less than 335 000 tonnes of skimmed milk powder were stored. Belgium alone owns 15% of European volumes. The total intervention volumes thus represent 3.4 billion litres of milk or almost 2% of total European annual production. Public intervention, however relevant in the short term, should under no circumstances be regarded as a long-term market. For more than a year, I was on the offensive at the European Councils and did not support certain measures because I considered them insufficient to respond to market problems. It is clear that storage, temporary aid measures and other arrangements are, of course, initiatives that we have accepted and taken. However, from the outset, we found that they were insufficient because no measures, even temporary, to reduce production had been taken. During the last few months, Belgium had to fight to make the agreement possible, by activating all possible levers, namely informal bilateral contacts with the ministers of the other Member States and the mobilisation of the European Parliament, together with my French colleague Stéphane Le Foll, on the issue in March 2016. Thirdly, when the subject of the agricultural crisis was on the agenda of the last European Council of 28 and 29 June 2016 in Brussels, I personally supported the issue with the Prime Minister so that he would adopt a strong stance on this issue of such importance to our country. As far as the European aid plans are concerned, I would remind you that since the introduction of the Russian embargo, the European Commissioner has implemented three support plans for the milk sector. The first plan, in September 2015, mainly provided financial support of €500 million. The second plan, in March 2016, gave the co-operatives the opportunity to agree production volumes and allowed Member States to support their producers up to EUR 15 000, which was used by some Member States, but not by our Regions. I deeply regret that. A third unpublished plan of EUR 500 million came in July 2016. This new plan includes two envelopes, including an envelope of EUR 150 million subject to a voluntary reduction in production. After all, aid of 14 cents per litre of non-produced milk will be paid to the producer, which should make it possible to reduce production by 1 billion litres. This is, of course, a step in the right direction, but only a step, a small step. Secondly, an envelope targeted support of EUR 350 million was distributed among the Member States. Belgium has received an envelope of 11 million in this respect. This amount was distributed among the regions. They will be able to grant this aid at their discretion to milk producers and/or cattle, pig, goat and sheep farmers. The mechanism therefore does not allow support for producers of fruit and vegetables. In addition, Commissioner Hogan has activated the pop-up system, which allows those Member States who wish to do so to inject the same sum from their own pockets for the benefit of their farmers. This decision must be taken by the Regions. This new plan will have to prove its effectiveness, but we have clearly seen a turning point in the European position. I come to the other EU measures. At the European Agriculture Council last July, the Commission indicated that it was not appropriate to call on the crisis reserve, but it provided for the advance payment of CAP support as in 2015. Finally, it also accepted a revision of the distribution of the promotional budget. At present, this budget amounts to 110 million euros for 2016. A meeting of the Agriculture Ministers was held in France on 2 September this year at the request of Mr Stéphane Le Foll. The aim of this event was to conduct a first reflection exercise with some 20 Agriculture Ministers, the representatives of the European Parliament and Copa-Cogeca, on the necessary developments in the future CAP programming period post 2020, after the Brexit. The UK's departure from the EU will represent a loss of revenue for European finances of nearly EUR 7 billion net per year. Several conclusions were drawn. In this way, the modalities of the future CAP will have to be simplified. The CAP will have to be proactive to make crisis management more efficient by giving farmers the resources to cope with it. A significant part of the EU budget will have to be devoted to crisis management mechanisms. In this respect, some Member States have suggested the idea of establishing a third pillar, with price stabilisation mechanisms in particular. On 13 September last, the informal European Agriculture Council took place in Slovakia. The theme of that council was to strengthen the farmer's place in the food chain. Belgium has called for the strengthening of the market regulation functioning of the European Union. In addition, Belgium has called for the strengthening of the European Prize Observatory and for greater transparency in the chain. The debates also concerned the introduction of a new legislative framework against unfair commercial practices. However, there is currently no majority in the Council for this. Mrs Gantois, thank you for your proposal, which aims at banning the abuse of a dominant position. However, I believe that such a provision should also or rather be laid down at European level. Moreover, the Belgian Competition Authority, which is completely independent, is already conducting investigations on the basis of reports published by the Belgian Prize Observatory or on the basis of complaints from operators. On the other hand, the chain dialogue is a positive and unique instrument throughout the European Union that deserves to be preserved. That is why I am a priori not in favour of introducing a new legislative framework against unfair commercial practices. We will also have to look at this at European level. The "chain" consultation is one of the instruments that I believe should be further developed. At the request of the sectoral organisations, on 28 September I brought together all the partners in the "chain" consultation, ensuring that regional representatives and Minister Peeters were involved. We have decided on a series of concrete actions and avenues to support our producers. This includes transparency in price formation, export support and a task force for contacts with European works. We expect a lot from the high-level task force on agricultural markets chaired by Mr Veerman whom we are going to meet. We have also established a link between our producers and the horeca sector and decided on a range of other actions. In concrete terms, we must both strengthen and amplify the work of "chain" consultation at Belgian level, then ensure the rules of competition with the Belgian competition authority and, if necessary, strengthen our legal provisions at European level and, why not, at national level. We must remain attentive to what is being done in the countries around us. For example, France has just decided on a system of own labelling of its products with the experimental authorisation of the European Commission. The aim of this labelling in France is to encourage and facilitate consumer choice towards French products, i.e. products that will not be Belgian. Some countries are falling back on themselves and this is likely to harm an exporting country like ours. Third level: the Commission's position must, of course, evolve at European level. There is a need for mechanisms and safety nets that are beacons for the market. One cannot accept, as was the case in the pig sector, that for four years, producers, one after another, collapse, experience a black crisis, to arrive after months or even years, at a situation where gradually, cautiously, prices are recovering. We cannot imagine that the market is so destructive without providing for structural measures beyond storage. Storage is good, but it's not enough. Storage brings large quantities back to the market, sometimes at an inappropriate time. Besides, we saw that storage was insufficient to regulate the market. It is therefore necessary, in accordance with appropriate arrangements, to agree on instruments for regulating the market and/or instruments, in particular insurable instruments, in order to secure the incomes of producers. I would add - lastly - that we must, in consultation with the Regions, support the instruments for promoting our products at home. As far as beef is concerned, there is Operation Belbeef. I also believe that we must invest in innovation, in research, in the processing of products, in food and non-food products. All that can healthyly create the added value in us of our various animal or plant products is a natural stabilizer, a natural guarantee for the future. All these measures are essential for our agricultural sector. I insist, and I end with that: we remain an export-oriented country. We will be in the future. You have seen that the price of pork has increased significantly since the spring. This is largely due to one element: the opening up of our exports to China. All our capacity to conclude health agreements, to promote, in economic diplomacy and in the strategy of our companies abroad, our agricultural products or the indirect exploitation of our agricultural products, must also be supported. This is all that we want to achieve, in close consultation with the Regions of course, even if we know that they sometimes have different visions. So far, we have always managed to agree, to speak with one voice, so that we can win this essential battle, which is that of the future of our agriculture, of our producers. I would point out that there are 37 000 direct jobs in the agricultural sector, twice as many indirect jobs, and even more so in the agri-food sector, and that, unfortunately, they are lost every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u28	Thank you for your comprehensive answer to these eight questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u29	Thank you also, Minister, for this indeed comprehensive answer. I remember, in particular, your first words: disaster and very severe crisis. We are, indeed, getting out of that crisis a little bit by little, but still very slowly. However, we are far from there. You know that I have a problem with the storage of all that pork and all those milk products, because one day those hundreds of thousands of kilograms of horse mackerel will still be on the market. I wonder what effect this will have. One cannot keep saving. Storage capacity will reach its limit at some point. I really appreciate your work, and I also think we should remain an exporting country. It is very good that the Chinese market has opened up to us and that we can supply our pork there. I think that many answers will have to come from Europe. It cannot be possible for one country to limit its production, while another country to benefit from it by producing more. This international cooperation must not be disrupted. A coordinated production restriction is only possible if there are sufficient financial incentives. I believe that the current effort will prove insufficient. So we want a forward-looking vision. I am very pleased that you are entering into the conversation in the chain talks. I think it is very important that the noses point in the same direction and that the position of the farmer is protected there, because that is really necessary. As far as unfair commercial practices are concerned, you yourself say that we are not in line at European level. Not all countries feel the same way about that. I don't think we should wait for that. I think that we should, like the Netherlands, Germany, France and so many other countries, draw up our own rules. If we have to wait for a consensus to be reached in Europe, it may take a long time. I therefore propose that we take matters into our own hands and ensure that we have a stick behind the door to protect our people. As you said yourself, the viability of agriculture is crucial for sustainable management in all parts of the agri-food chain, with 37 000 direct workers plus twice that number indirectly. That's about a lot of people. I believe that Fedagrim's care should also be our concern. I am glad that a safety net is being created in Europe, but we must make sure that we do not lose our agriculture. We must be able to keep those people and businesses so that we can provide our own food. If two thirds of farmers estimate that within ten years we will not produce enough to provide our own food supplies, then we should really be concerned. We need to keep an eye on everything and work on keeping agriculture at the level and ensuring that all this remains viable. I've written down a lot of things. I am sure that you are working very hard to make all this happen, but I will continue to follow it up and see how and where we can support it. I will also move on to my legislative proposal, because I think we really need to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u30	Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive response. Prices for milk, milk powder and butter are increasing. That's good for the sector. However, does this increase result from the storage and the measures taken? There's definitely a connection. As Mrs Gantois has just said, we must be careful because these measures are temporary. These are very good arrangements, but what are we going to do when the storage is clean? This is why structural and long-term solutions must also be adopted. You are convinced of that, Mr Minister, it is obviously on a European scale that this is being done. You have talked about a mechanism for regulating markets – I join you – and an insurer system. The latter could be the subject of a future question. Anyway, I wanted to thank you for the work you're doing. I know that, from the beginning, you have taken up this issue of the dairy and agricultural sectors with arms-on-body. I'm proud of it, because they're worth it. Secondly, I wanted to return to the informal European Council in which you participated in September on strengthening the culture of transparency in the food chain. I consider that we are also moving in the right direction in terms of market prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u31	Mrs Gantois and Mrs Cassart, I fear that with the return of prices, together with the return of stocks to the market which the Commission will gradually bring back, the farms in financial difficulty will recover from production. That's normal. I'm afraid there's been a new rise in production. If we have a price of 32 or 33 eurocents in February, March, April, and even 30 eurocents in difficulty, the farms will produce again and again. That's normal. I'd do the same. So, if we have the return of stocks, if the market doesn't go back in volumes and, in addition, we have a new start from up production, there we have a point of crisis and concern. At the next European Council, I assure you, Mr President, I am going to fight like a demon because if we do not anticipate this and we have a second crisis, then that will be disaster!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u32	There is therefore a need for more regulation. I agree, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u33	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this matter should normally have been dealt with before the second meeting of La Gaichel. It's after, but it's okay. In the La Gaichel agreements, it had been agreed to develop a unit to strengthen cross-border relations between SMEs, in particular at the administrative level, to help them find the right avenues for good relations with the government of the State of which they are not. Mr Minister, in the follow-up to the La Gaichel agreements and the La Gaichel meetings, could you tell me whether this unit comprising a Belgian and a Luxembourg adviser has been set up? If not, why? How long will it be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u34	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, your question is a continuation of the debate on the internationalisation of SMEs. It is in this context that I have imagined, on a pilot basis, an experimental one, this Belgian-Luxembourg cell. In this regard, I should like to provide you with the following information. I have tried to put an SME chapter in international proximity agreements, particularly with La Gaichel. The SME chapter of the La Gaichel agreements of 5 February 2015 listed the following objectives: to initiate cross-border cooperation linked to the sharing of good practice, specific information given to SMEs, the development of SMEs and the self-employed. In order to work in the most operational way possible, oriented towards the rapid achievement of concrete results, I decided to create a micro-export facilitating network for SMEs and TPEs, supporting a cross-border economy of proximity as well as short circuits. In coordination with the UCM, I mandated it to put this network into practice because the UCM is part of the Interregional Council of Chambers of Trades of the Greater Region. The stakes are as high as the Grande Région because it includes the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Lorraine, Alsace, Champagne-Ardenne, the province of Luxembourg, Rhineland-Palatinate, Saarland and it represents a total of 19 million inhabitants. CCIM represents 170,000 companies in the Greater Region with 70,000 employees and 50,000 apprentices. The UCM has created an exchange platform called GREX (Greater Region Business Experts). GREX brings together business owners and facilitators for Belgium. These facilitators come from the UCM. The exchanges take place in meetings of business owners with colleagues who have demonstrated their vision and results in a positive and creative state of mind, with the aim, in particular, of exchanging good practices. The digital component of the platform facilitates networking and highlights these success stories and best practices. The platform will also provide support to any SME or independent who wishes to develop an economic partnership in the Greater Region. The issues discussed may concern concrete support for the implementation of the procedures, administrative information or collaborations with specific institutions or organisations, for example for Belgium, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgian Luxembourg, Idelux, the province of Luxembourg, AWEX, etc. Workshops are also organized for GREX by the UCM Academy, in particular on questions of preparation for export or installation in the other territories of the Greater Region, but also attractive courses, especially of languages, advocating the elevator pitch as a situation to master. GREX officially started its operational activities in January 2016. The platform has also been put online via social networks Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. A free number is available to any company wishing to internationalise (0800 823 45). In May 2016, the UCM reported the first results for the first four months of activity, with 92 different contacts on export issues, of which 78% were from Belgium, 17% from the Grand Duchy, 3% from France and 2% from Germany. Two thirds of the questions were asked by one-person enterprises, one quarter came from SMEs with up to 10 people, while 75% concerned local entrepreneurship such as crafts and construction, 14% from services, the other sectors being agri-food or industry. This is the state of play of this experimental project which I wish to extend, if it is possible budgetaryly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u35	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. My question should have been dealt with much earlier, but it is only now. This has enabled you to recall everything that has been done. I am pleased to see that your efficiency vis-à-vis SMEs is also cross-border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u36	Question No 12912 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and question No 13046 by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I asked you in November 2015 about the reform of the method of calculating social contributions for self-employed workers. Indeed, at the time, the Union of Middle Classes (UCM) considered this reform to be positive but that there was still a flat: the reduction thresholds. Indeed, it is not enough to show a decrease in income to pay less; it is necessary to have passed under one of the two thresholds, either by 12 870 euros or by 25 740 euros. For example, in the case of a decrease in income from €70,000 to €30,000, the adjustment can only be made at regularisation. The UCM therefore proposed to add additional thresholds or to remove existing ones. You told me that this reform did not come into force until January 2015 and that at least a full year should be allowed before it could be evaluated and possibly amended. The law provides that, at your initiative, an evaluation may be carried out by the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers within four years of its entry into force. Minister, when did you plan an evaluation of the reform of the calculation of social contributions for self-employed workers? Is an adaptation of the law to respond to the UCM's suggestion on the agenda? Have any other elements been identified that need to be adapted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I have spoken on several occasions about the transition from the old to the new system for calculating social contributions. First, for 2015, 41,397 independents used the possibilities of adjusting their provisional social contributions. That's 4.1%. It's a good start, but you yourself said you wanted to increase that percentage at some point. Second, there are only two adjustment thresholds for self-employed persons as the main reason. You told me that this rigidity had to be corrected, especially since it was criticized by the self-employed, whose incomes were declining, but at a level that did not correspond to the reduction thresholds. It is therefore an adaptation proposed by the field. Finally, you also told me about the problem of self-employed workers whose income in 2012, 2013 and/or 2014 was exceptionally low. As a result of the reform, these years are still relevant for the calculation of provisional contributions but more for the calculation of final social contributions from 2015, 2016 and/or 2017. These self-employed workers may eventually claim to be injured by the reform, as in the old scheme for the years 2015, 2016 and/or 2017, they could expect low social contributions. In this regard, you also announced to me that your firm would conduct a full assessment of the proposal made by the monitoring committee. Minister, can you tell me if more self-employed people are using adjustment options? Is the 4.1 percentage increasing? Otherwise, what is possible to increase this percentage? Can you tell me if the idea of implementing additional interim contribution reduction thresholds has come to fruition? Is it relevant and, if so, when will it be implemented? Do you have the results of your firm's evaluation of the monitoring committee's proposal? What are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u39	Colleagues, as we know, the reform of social security contributions provided for this evaluation mechanism on the impact of the reform, in particular on its Article 16. This evaluation must be carried out by the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers. The law said within four years of its entry into force, i.e. no more than by the end of 2018. The Committee is therefore expected to begin its work in the course of 2017. I do not wish to wait until this deadline because there are already a number of indications. I have taken the initiative to bring together the Reform Monitoring Committee, which brings together the stakeholders involved in the reform: representative organisations, social insurance funds, INASTI, the Independent DG and the institutes of accountants and business reviewers. This committee is chaired by my firm. He met seven times. In addition, the field application is closely monitored in the framework of a technical working group composed of the social insurance funds, INASTI and the Independent DG of the SPF Social Security. The first point is indeed the problem of the reduction thresholds under which income must have fallen in order for the self-employed to obtain a reduction in his provisional contributions. For the self-employed mainly, there are two thresholds, as I mentioned in the SME balance sheet, i.e. EUR 13 010.66 or EUR 26 021.32. The monitoring committee carried out a quarterly evaluation of the adjustments made by the independents. In 2015, 16,247 independents were granted reduced provisional contributions and 25,150 independents requested an increase in their contributions. Compared to the 1,035,469 self-employed persons subject to December 31, 2015, these 41,397 self-employed persons represent, as you indicated, 4% of the self-employed. In 2016, mid-year, social insurance funds have already listed 17,059 reductions and 19,777 increases, representing a total of 36,836 beneficiaries of this adjustment option. Taking into account the behaviour observed in 2015, we can expect by the end of 2016 a total number of beneficiaries of these adaptations, up from 2015. Before I answer the question of what can be done to increase the percentage of use, I must point out that there is no specific objective in relation to a specific percentage of beneficiaries to be achieved. In fact, many self-employed people have low or very low or very high incomes, whose fluctuation does not affect the minimum or maximum contributions they pay. The objective here is qualitative: in the long term, any independent person who, in the interests of good management, good governance and economic management, wishes to adapt his or her contribution provisions to his or her current economic situation must be able to do so. Today, I receive testimonies from self-employed people who are excluded from this possibility of adaptation. The major obstacle to this qualitative objective lies in the system of reduction thresholds, as you say. In concrete terms, a number of independents are excluded from this possibility. Example: The thresholds do not include those whose incomes fall from EUR 24,000 in 2013 to EUR 16,000 this year or those whose incomes have fallen to EUR 35,000. In view of the uncertainties that existed before 2015 on the behaviour of the independents, the law only provided for new thresholds after the evaluation of the operation of the scheme. In view of the above figures, I intend to quickly add several thresholds - four, as I indicated earlier. The issue of improving the reform will soon be tabled on the government table without waiting for 2018. The second problem is that of the low revenues of the gateway years of 2012, 2013 or 2014, intermediate period. The same is true of this problem since it concerns the situation of those self-employed who had low or exceptionally low incomes during this intermediate period. The latter waited for 2015, 2016 and 2017 to pay lower contributions on the basis of the old system, which calculated their contributions on income from previous years. As a result of the reform, their low income is being cut off, which deprives them of an expected oxygen bubble if, however, their incomes have not increased dramatically in recent years. These are delicate situations where the self-employed rightly believe that their social security does not take into account their poorer financial situation just before the reform. It's a matter of concern and I don't like people being left by the road. That is why I have asked that a working group take special responsibility, within the monitoring committee, for developing a correction measure. Their proposal is to implement a three-year corrective mechanism via a contribution credit that takes into account the average reference income according to the old and the new system. This correction would be applied when regularising contributions 2015, 2016 and 2017. This proposal must also be included in the reform improvement dossier. There may still be other opportunities for improvement that will also be considered. What is on the table is the assumption that the losers of the reform could value all or part of what they have "lost" to build up a pool of future contributions that they would deduce from what they should in the future, for example. We are thinking about this with a large number of interlocutors, and I thank them for all their work on the monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u40	I take note of the Minister's answer to two of my questions. I imagine that the third question which envisaged other problems than those I have mentioned will be discussed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u41	I approached her at the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u42	Yes, but in a general way, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u43	Minister, thank you for taking stock of this legislation. You are right: the objective is not quantitative. I fully agree with you: it is qualitative. The needs of some independents are being met. This is a possibility in case of rising or falling incomes, but not everyone is concerned. On the other hand, you say that many self-employed people have stable incomes. It pleases me because I think that at some point there are sectors and circles where it works as well. The fact that you introduce new thresholds meets the needs of the sector. This reform is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck has converted 13144 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u45	Mr President, Minister, my first question dates from 2 August, but I think it is still topical. Along the A19, near Geluwe, fruit farmers had hung a large banner with the demand to reopen the Russian market. Two years ago, they were unintentionally victims of a political conflict and were involved in Russia's import boycott. The embargo, of course, distorts the market and tackles the prices of agricultural products. The fruit farmers suffer very much from this. About 40% of the pear production and 10% of our apples went to Russia before the embargo. Meanwhile, the embargo was extended for another year and the price of fruit is falling. In the second quarter of this year, for example, the conference press saw a drop in prices of more than 38%. The European Union does provide for some compensations, but they are insufficient to cope with this. Specifically for the horticultural sector, an agricultural organisation in our country has drawn up an action plan to mitigate the impact of the Russian trade embargo and poor price formation. The organisation is, of course, in favour of the reopening of Russia as a market for our European agricultural and horticultural products. In addition, it looks at Europe to extend aid measures and to provide a greater safety net for market volatility. Finally, they also see sense in providing a financial buffer for bad years. Minister, have any steps been taken, or will they be taken, to further support the fruit sector? Are you aware of the action plan? What do you think? What are your views on the proposal to provide a financial buffer to cover bad years in the agricultural sector? Will you urge Europe to negotiate with Russia to end the embargo? My second question is also about Russia's trade ban, specifically for the pig sector. When African swine fever broke out in Poland and Lithuania in January 2014, almost three years ago, Russia introduced a trade ban on pigmeat from Europe. As we have just discussed, this decision, of course, had a major impact on pricing and was challenged because the justification for the embargo did not really make sense, as Russia itself did not control the infectious disease. Moreover, the cases found in Eastern Eurpa are most likely from infected wild boars from Russia. Europe has proposed to resume trade from disease-free zones, but Russia does not agree with that. The European Union has officially denounced the trade embargo in the World Trade Organisation, and it has done its bit, because the dispute panel considers that the import ban is not in line with what the animal health organisation requires in the event of the outbreak of African swine fever. Russia did not take into account whether or not the meat came from a risk zone, but simply fish all over Europe. Trade between Europe and Russia is therefore now much more limited than necessary, with which Russia wants to protect itself against African swine fever. Since August 2014, there has also been a politically motivated trade embargo, but the WTO still draws Russia's attention to its international obligations and to the fact that it cannot simply ignore those obligations. Russia really has no reason to ignore and refuse meat from our uncontaminated countries. Russia now has 60 days to appeal that decision, otherwise it will have to comply with its international obligations. Minister, what are the consequences for Europe if Russia does not appeal, knowing that there is still a politically motivated embargo in addition to the trade embargo? What happens if Russia decides to appeal? What do you think of the WTO ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, the decision on the appeal was taken two days ago. It was decided by Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u47	They're appealing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u49	I hadn't seen that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u50	Then I come to the questions about the Russian economic and sanitary embargo on fruit and pork. Several horticulturalists have reported me losses in the vicinity of 200 000 euros for the past year. That's terrifying. The price for pears and apples is about 40 cents per kilo. This amount is below the cost of production of the growers. That is why, at the European Agriculture Council last July, I called for the extension of crisis management measures to this sector. Initially, Commissioner Hogan had decided to reduce his budget for the Fruit and Vegetables programme for 2016-2017 by about 70%. I found such a reduction excessive, taking into account the chaotic situation in the sector. On 22 September last, I was a little satisfied to note that Commissioner Hogan came back to his decision by increasing the price of getting fruit and vegetables off the market. For example, the Commission now intends to bring these prices from 30% to 40% of the average price between 2010 and 2014 for the free distribution and from 20% to 30% of the average price for other destinations, compost and green harvesting. After all, Commissioner Hogan stressed in September that the high stock volumes put additional pressure on the markets. The regulation should be adopted by the end of the year and should apply at the beginning of 2017. Of course, I regret that our farmers are the victims of political decisions that they do not understand. The withdrawal of the Russian embargo would, of course, give our producers breathing space, but such a démarche falls within the competence of the Commission and the European Agriculture Ministers. However, I continue to support this sector through the export cell of the BFSA. It is actively working on several dossiers to remove the sanitary barriers for the export of apples and pears to new destinations such as Brazil, Vietnam, Chile and Thailand. I am convinced that contacts at the highest level with foreign leaders will also facilitate the handling of our Belgian dossiers. That's why I don't rule out traveling to China in 2017. With regard to the Russian sanitary embargo on African swine fever in certain Eastern European countries, Russia appealed to the WTO on 23 September against the ruling of the Dispute Settlement Body, which states that the sanitary embargo is contrary to international trade rules. Moreover, I heard that contacts took place in June between President Juncker and the Russian leaders. These contacts may be a small step in the right direction in order to reach agreement on this dossier in the future. Of course, I will continue to follow closely the evolution of this dossier. I am also in favour of further and strong measures for the fruit and garden sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u51	Thank you, Minister. I am convinced of the efforts that are being made. Of course, new markets are opening up new opportunities. We can only support that and we can only welcome it. It is also good news that next year the European Union will increase its intervention prices for fruit and vegetables withdrawn from the market by 10%. If something good has been done, so should we. We will have to wait and see if this is enough. I can only support your conviction to continue to seek a solution, to continue to negotiate, to continue to support the European Commission to finally reach that compromise with Russia, so that our products can find their outlets there as well. I read that the Russian boycott against Turkey and Egypt is now history. I hope that Europe too will be able to follow this very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u52	Minister, there are two questions left. Can we still treat them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u53	Mr President, can I not give the answers in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u54	Mr Minister, that is a short question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u55	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, Europe put an end to the milk quota system. A crisis package has recently been made available to compensate farmers who voluntarily reduce their milk production. The President of the Canadian National Farmers' Association, the NFU, sent a letter to European Agricultural Commissioner Phil Hogan to convince him to switch to the Canadian system, taking production costs as the starting point for the milk price determination. This could, of course, also apply to other products. According to the organisation, this model works efficiently, solves a lot of problems and could also solve the income crisis affecting European farmers. It would therefore no longer be necessary to call on Member States' budgets each time to compensate for the extremely low prices, and it would guarantee consumers healthy milk at a reasonable price. Moreover, the Canadian system needs virtually no subsidies anymore. That is very important and we must all strive for it. It would be very positive to move towards an agricultural system without subsidies. Minister, do you think that Europe can draw lessons from this model, calculating the selling price on the basis of production costs and maintaining production control without returning to the quota system? That seems to me to be the most logical way of working. They want to explain this model from Canada. Are you prepared to urge Commissioner Hogan to speak? Are there any other interesting ideas, such as the American example of the Farm Bill, an insurance system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, thank you for your question on agricultural policy in Canada. The Canadian system is a very special system, which is unique in the world. It makes it possible for Canadian producers to match supply to domestic demand. Canada would have been allowed by the WTO to maintain its system provided it did not bring its surplus milk into the world market. Thanks to this system, the milk price in Canada remains at the highest in the industrialised world. Their supply management system will follow the trend of the gradual opening of the Canadian market, either within the framework of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the United States-Asia Convention, or within the framework of CETA, the EU-Canada Convention. The latter provides for an additional quota for the export of European cheeses to Canada. However, I would argue that this system should be examined by the relevant regions, in cooperation with the agricultural and milk processing federations, as well as with Europe, of course. At the ministerial meeting of the OECD countries in Paris last April, I particularly advocated the introduction of market beacons. However, I can confirm that most of my European counterparts have a much more market-oriented view of agriculture in the coming years. I regret that. The introduction of the new CAP will have to be the subject of a compromise between the Member States of the European Union. You can be sure that I will do everything I can to make a decent income possible for our farmers, with a reformed system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u57	Minister, your answer sounds somewhat hopeful, but it is clear that the current CAP is not or at least not sufficiently waterproof to provide long-term structural solutions. It can only be learning to look in other continents at how things are being dealt with there. You say you'll still be communicating with the Regions. I'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u58	Mr Minister, the Act of 11 February 2013 on the organisation of the profession of real estate agent sets out in Article 2, 5° a mediator as follows: "Who, on behalf of a third party, provides decisive assistance with a view to achieving an agreement of sale, purchase, exchange, rental or transfer of immovable property, immovable property or commercial funds.' In the financial intermediaries sector, it is customary to cooperate with real estate agents to act as a supplier. This means that intermediaries, at the request of customers, propose a real estate agent and get a commission for this. However, they do not play a role in the actual transaction. However, BIV and UNIZO argue that those providers should be considered as intermediaries, which means that they must be registered in the register of real estate agents, with all the consequences. That is strange, given that in the financial intermediaries sector these practices have been without registration for a long time. In order to clarify the situation for everyone in that situation, I would have liked to know, Minister, whether an independent customer can be brought to a real estate agent without being registered as a real estate agent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u59	The interpretation of the provision in question falls within the competence of the Professional Institute of Real Estate Real Estate Agents, which is responsible for ensuring that the conditions of access to the profession are complied with and may act in legal proceedings for that purpose, in particular by suing any infringement of the laws and regulations protecting the professional title and the organisation of the appeal to the judicial authorities and/or by asking those authorities for any measure to stop such infringement and, where appropriate, to claim compensation. In fine, the courts and courts are therefore competent to assess the legality of the exercise of the profession. Unfortunately, I do not have justice in relation to the question you have put. I have asked the Professional Institute whether financial intermediaries that apply customers to real estate agents are considered by the Institute as intermediaries within the meaning of Article 2, 5° of the Act of 11 February 2013 and will not fail to provide you with a precise analysis in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic502x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think I can anticipate that analysis of the BIV. It's like his analysis I got through. We need to make that clear. If the Professional Institute itself extends the rules in such a way that anyone who is still close to a real estate transaction should be registered as a real estate agent, then I think it makes his scope too broad. I am waiting for his final analysis, but I will certainly come back to this.
