ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, welcome to our midst. I thank you for coming to the committee on such short notice: you took the oath last Monday and you are already available to Parliament today, Wednesday. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 7877, No. 8941 and No. Mr David Clarinval's 9701 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, welcome to our committee. I wish you every success with the new challenge. Your predecessor said at the beginning of the legislature that the former Secretary of State for Social Fraud had made little use of the European conciliation procedure in the event of a dispute over the A1 form. He stated that he did not want to engage in adonquixote fight on the social anti-abuse clause, while there is a full alternative, the conciliation procedure. The A1 form is a declaration on social security legislation applicable when working in more than one EU Member State. It confirms a person's social security situation for the period included in the declaration and indicates the country in which social security contributions are to be paid. It is necessary in the fight against social fraud that these certificates are correct. Indeed, the procedure has not been used very often in the past, because the conciliation procedure is very difficult and almost unworkable. Usually the bird has flown before there is a statement. That is why your predecessor introduced the social anti-abuse clause, a measure which I see growing support for in increasing numbers of European recommendations and publications. How many conciliation procedures were launched during the past year and what was the outcome? Have you or your predecessor, at European level, taken initiatives to ease the difficult procedure, in three steps, in order to make it more useful? Are you in favour of transforming the non-binding opinion of the Conciliation Board into binding arbitration decisions? Were the piste included in the proposals you or your predecessor put forward on this issue at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u3	Mr President, before I answer the question, I would like to say that it is a special pleasure for me to be here today and to be able to answer your questions. I intend to ensure the continuity of the policy of my predecessor, Bart Tommelein. I think he's been working hard on those files. I believe that there is a need for continuity and a clear policy. So I intend to go through that line. Mrs Kitir, I come to your question. As far as the figures are concerned, an answer was given to your colleague, Mr Raskin, in March. The Osiris monitoring tool shows that on 31 March 259 files of the Social Inspectorate and the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed are being processed under the A1 procedure. I can tell you that 163 files are being examined by the competent authorities at stage 1, 92 files in stage 2, and 4 files in stage 3. As far as your question on the reform is concerned, I think it is important that we show that the procedure is not working or not working properly before we start a reform. I also know from my past in the European Parliament and the European institutions that European procedures are sometimes slow. My predecessor has already taken action on this issue. At the Benelux conference on social dumping in November 2015, the Benelux recommendations were handed over to EU Commissioner Thyssen. In the bilateral consultations that my predecessor had, it was also stated that the conciliation procedure is not efficient, but that it can be used and that there is evidence that there is a problem with it. I think we will be able to deliver a report to Mrs Thyssen by the end of 2016. In relation to your question about the conciliation board, we must go very clearly to binding decisions, but within a much shorter time frame. There's a real problem there. Of course, if some Member States do not already accept the non-binding ruling of an administrative committee today, then I must address myself to Commissioner Thyssen in order to bring action and change that. Belgium is one of the most intensive users of this dialogue and conciliation procedure. It is also clear that it is important for Belgium to have this reform. If the European can, very much so, all together, but that should not prevent us from making some bilateral agreements as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that you take the issue to heart and that a report will be delivered to Commissioner Thyssen by the end of 2016. Your contacts in Europe will benefit us here. I hope that we can speed up the dossier, because it is an important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u5	Welcome to this committee, Mr Secretary of State. I wish you every success. At the end of 2012, the European Court of Justice ruled that our Limosa notification obligation for self-employed persons would be an obstacle to the free movement of services. It was not possible to accept that more information was requested from foreign self-employed providers than from providers established in that country. Although at that time the Court did not rule on which elements could or could not be included in the Limosa declaration, the then Secretary of State decided to simplify the notification so much that today it seems like an empty box. This is also reflected in your predecessor's reply to some of my written questions on the number of postings in risk professions. Indeed, since mid-2013, no detailed data on the sector in which a posted activity is carried out have been collected. The lack of information on workers and self-employed workers posted to our country is an important obstacle to the fight against social dumping. Therefore, an evaluation of the Limosa reporting obligation is one of the action lines of the "fair competition plan" of the construction sector. At a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee in November last year, your predecessor informed me that at that time the various administrations were considering what additional elements the Limosa notification obligation might contain, based on Article 9 of the Enforcement Directive. What is the state of affairs in the investigation of the various administrations? Have any conclusions been drawn? What additional elements do you think you might have a specific experience in Europe..... could be included in the Limosa declaration? Are you considering an extension of the Limosa notification obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u6	It is true that under Secretary of State Crombez in 2013 it was decided to significantly reduce the data on the Limosa notification. It is also true that the Court's judgment never called for the inclusion of the sectors to be abolished. That's what happened in the adjustment after all. At the moment, in consultation with the National Social Security Office, we are in the process of making certain adjustments to the plan for fair competition in the construction sector. Explicitly saying how far we stand in this can only be achieved when everything is actually on track. In any case, I believe that there is a possibility of re-introducing a reference to the sector. In the context of the judgment, DG Growth of the European Commission examined what we can do and how far we can go. We have clearly stated that we are opting for a sector-specific approach, which you expect and ask: the construction sector, the cleaning industry, the meat processing industry. That will probably be accepted. The transport sector, a very important sector for our country, is under discussion. The latest negotiations are under way with the Commission and with the relevant Cabinets and Administrations. We hope to reach an agreement with DG Growth and the European Commission before the summer recess, so that the adjustments can be made through KB shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that we all know that the fight against social dumping can only be won in cooperation with Europe. That doesn't mean we have to wait. Sometimes things get tough and slow there, you know that better than I do. It's not always obvious. It is good that you take initiatives and continue to press ahead and also consult with the administrations in order to bring about a final adjustment of the reporting obligation. I am pleased to hear that you confirm that the Court has not explicitly asked for the model before us today. I understand the process is in evolution. I will therefore continue to question you about it in the future. Apparently, you estimate that, especially for the risk sectors, there is an opportunity to take effective steps so that we can come up with a sector-specific approach. That's good news. I conclude with the question of continuing to put pressure on the process, in order to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u8	Maybe one more supplement. There is also a budget for the adjustment of Limosa at the last budget change. We are definitely working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to refer to my written question on the number of posted workers and self-employed persons with Indian nationality, a subject that was republished in the press a while ago. In my written question I looked at the number of infringements of our social legislation by posted workers with Indian nationality. Your predecessor had to remain guilty because the computer system did not allow such data to be collected for the time being. However, your predecessor always referred to data matching and data mining as key policy priorities, and as important tools in the fight against social dumping and social fraud in general, which we also supported. I come to my questions. Why can't the current computer system collect this data? Where exactly is the shoe pinching? In the reply I received, it was also indicated that it was examined whether such an application is possible. I wonder what the situation is. Has this investigation been initiated and when can we expect results?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u10	Mr President, I fully agree that data matching or data mining and the connection of databases is extremely important in the fight against social dumping and social fraud. Indeed, the current IT system, as you describe, does not allow the inspection services to provide statistics on what infringements have been detected for workers of a certain nationality. Only the nationality of employers is currently known, using country codes. You probably know the problem that many workers do not have the same nationality as their employer. I give the example of Luxembourg, where 98% of posted workers do not have Luxembourg nationality, but they are posted from Luxembourg. Another example, 73 % of Slovenian posted workers are not Slovenian nationals. In short, the country code does not always allow an exact matching. Following on from the previous answer, I can tell you that we received additional budget after the budgetary control of the end of March 2016 to provide the Limosatool with additional functionalities. It is therefore now possible to add a further division by sector. This must, of course, be properly covered in legal and technical terms, with due respect for existing European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u11	My reply may be brief, Mr Secretary of State. We must, of course, respect European legislation and the legal arrangements that are in place. It is not intended to color outside the lines. Due to the complexity of the problem, data matching or data mining is not beating, because not everything can be found just like that. In 2016, I believe that further steps need to be taken to achieve better results in this area. We know that we will not discover everything, but we need to go along with time in this respect, and those steps need to be taken. I understand that the budgetary discussions have focused on this and that budgets are being released. I'll keep following up on that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u12	Mrs Lanjri has just arrived to ask her question. We welcome her to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, despite the growth in the sector, the employment situation in the construction sector is very difficult. In recent years, there has always been a decrease of 5%. If nothing is done about this, the sector's calculations indicate that a further 26 000 jobs will be lost by 2019. The same problems are emerging in the electrical engineering sector as in the construction sector. The sector, which is a more limited sector, points out that many jobs would be lost, i.e. 500 jobs on an annual basis. The reasons for this are diverse, but they are also partly parallel to the causes we see in the construction sector and in other sectors: false self-employment from other countries as well as lower wage costs for people who are posted and whether or not they pay their social security in the country of origin. The latter is still very difficult to control due to a lack of cooperation with the countries of origin. Social dumping and illegal practices are also a cause. The construction sector uses a ConstruBadge, which is a very useful tool. The badge is worn on all construction sites. The electrical engineering sector would like to develop a similar system. However, some technical difficulties prevent the sector from doing so. Let me give you an example. No separate code for the electrical engineering sector is used on a Dimona declaration, resulting in a significant delay in the flow of employment data. I would therefore like to have an answer to the following questions. How do you stand in your capacity as new Secretary of State, Mr President? First of all, I would like to congratulate you, of course, on your appointment to the House of Lords, on the possible introduction of such a badge which the electrical sector wants to introduce in a similar way to the construction sector? Are you prepared to make the necessary technical adjustments in the field of information technology with regard to Dimona? What other actions would you like to take in order to address the consequences of social fraud and social dumping in the electrical sector, which will reduce or hopefully avoid job losses? I would also like to call for a round table for the electrical sector, as we have had for other sectors, with positive results. Can a round table also be organized for the electrotechnical sector so that proposals can be developed, together with the employers, workers and trade unions sector, to reduce job losses in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u14	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to join Mrs Lanjri's question and not re-explain the framework, but ask the specific questions immediately. Your predecessor indicated that there would have been consultations with that sector. Are there any interesting conclusions you can give us? During these consultations, your predecessor would have announced that a concrete action plan for the sector would have been drawn up by the end of April. What is the status of that plan? Something coming up soon? What can we expect? So what are the concrete measures for the sector? At the end of 2015, Volta's umbrella organisation itself came out with a future plan. This includes a number of measures to combat unfair competition from foreign companies. Most of the measures are also reflected in the plan for fair competition in the construction sector, but there are also a number of points specific to the electrical sector. One of the points is the question of the Fund for Existence Security to gain access to the Dimona and Limosa databases. I can't wait to see what you're up against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several meetings have already taken place between the sector and my cabinet. In the fight against social competition and social dumping, the sector has drawn up a future plan, to which you both refer. This has a lot to do with the idea of fair competition in the construction sector. It lists a number of sector-specific action points. Two weeks ago, we started a mini-round table. It has already taken place for the first time between the social partners in order to look at how we can launch and shape a plan for fair competition for the electrical engineering sector. The elements you mention are taken into account. It is intended to finalize the text shortly after the summer recess, i.e. in September or October. As regards the visual identifier, its introduction is not only requested for the construction and electrical engineering sectors. I can tell you that the Action Line is included in the Fair Competition Plan in the construction sector. My predecessor recently asked Mr Peeters for an update on this matter, who, as Minister for Employment, is responsible for the elaboration of this measure. We also support the industry's demand for the Fund to provide access to the Dimona and Limosa databases. At the moment, the RSZ is investigating how we can implement this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u16	Is that technical problem being addressed to enter that badge?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u17	That's what we're all discussing. This is one of the points on the table that must be addressed in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u18	Thank you for the answer. We hope, of course, that the action plan will come up with good measures and that, in consultation with the competent minister, Kris Peeters in this case, we will also be working on solving the technical problems so that they can also introduce ConstruBadge, even though it may have a different name. Anyway, it's the same drug.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u19	Mr President, I agree with my colleague. I look forward to the finished report after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u20	Mr President, Secretary of State, during an interview in the programme The seventh day, at the beginning of this year, the European Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs said that the European platform against undeclared work will be operational in May. That is a good thing. Several sectors have been calling for this for a long time. The platform should bring together the inspection services of the different European Member States in order to exchange data and explore ways to improve on-the-spot checks. What is the precise state of the European platform? To what extent and in what way is our country involved in this platform? Will all European Member States be obliged to join this platform? If not, do you have a view of which Member States would prefer not to join?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u21	Mr President, Mr Raskin, you know that the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March is to establish such a platform. The decision on the intensification of cooperation in tackling undeclared work was published on 11 March 2016. The European Commission intends to launch a platform on 27 May 2016. Each Member State should designate a higher representative and a replacement. All Member States will therefore be obliged to appoint a representative for plenary sessions. It is, of course, up to each Member State individually to decide what the involvement and input it wishes to give at plenary level will be when the platform is launched. For our country, Mr Aseglio, director of the SIOD and director of the Directorate for the Supervision of Social Laws, was designated as delegate and Mr Heirman as his replacement. Mr Heirman is the former director of the SIOD and Director-General of the Social Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I note that we are about to start, that our representatives have been appointed and that all Member States are obliged to participate. I hope that this new vehicle will produce results and not become a glorified talk barracks. I'll be optimist and follow things up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your entry into the government. I hope that we can work well together in the future. Mr Secretary of State, I am addressing a theme that I used to deal with as director of a social housing society. I am also looking at another chairman of a social housing society. At that time we experienced many problems with residence fraud, because there was a lack of cooperation on data exchange and the follow-up of files. The fight against residence fraud is an action point of the government. Your predecessor already announced that data matching and data mining techniques would be used, for example with regard to information on gas, water and electricity consumption. The aim is to explore how to avoid excessive unemployment, sickness or invalidity benefits, including when two adults are dominated at a separate address, while in reality living together at one address. There are other abuses of residential fraud, where the use of public investment is unjustified. I remember the many advertisements in De Streekkrant where literally rooms were offered for the establishment of an address for service. Even now one can find such things in De Koopjeskrant. By the way, in February 2011, there was an uplifting report by Koppen on residential fraud, specifically with regard to some search sites that have separate headings for the trade in false address addresses. One of the main problems at that time was that findings of residence fraud by the RVA, the OCMW, the RIZIV or a social housing society could not or could not be shared, because of the protection of privacy. This led to a sanction being imposed on one of the public authorities within the framework of its competence, but not communicated. Because of this lack of information, the infringement was not sanctioned by another public service. That was, as far as I know, particularly the case with social housing companies. My questions are therefore the following, Mr Secretary of State. Where do you stand with the implementation of the framework for combating residence fraud through the use of water, electricity and gas consumption data? What further measures are still on the way to ensuring that data matching and data mining are done efficiently and effectively? Can you give us a timing on this? How should public administrations at different levels be able to share information on established social fraud, so that social fraud is treated not as a single fact, but as an injustice against the whole of society? Do you also see a possible cooperation with social housing companies or other public authorities? How do you wish to put that into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u24	Mr Vermeulen, as you know, the draft law was adopted in the Chamber's plenary session in April 2016. The final preparations for the pilot project are currently being made. The necessary authorisations shall be prepared and submitted to the competent sectoral committee. The average for the 16 family types has already been calculated. We have also made agreements to enable efficient and secure data exchange between distribution system operators, KSZ, RVA, FAMIFED and RIZIV, which I believe is important. We plan to run a first test before the summer recess. My predecessor always argued in favour of evaluating the use of energy data, and I follow him in that. If necessary, this should be adapted and refined. As Secretary of State responsible for Privacy, I also know, of course, that a clear legal basis for all data matching and data mining, including in social security, needs to be created. We are currently preparing a legislative amendment on this issue. For the RVA in particular, I can already tell you that this institution has identified many anomalies in the area of residence and family composition through the link between its own databases and the National Register. The payout institutions can also check the data in the National Register before making payment. We know that in 2015, for example, no fewer than 27 500 investigations were carried out on the basis of the presence of indications of irregular declaration of nationality, address or family composition of an unemployed person. In 8 400 cases an irregular situation was identified and this led to the establishment in 2015 of an amount of more than EUR 30 million of unduly paid benefits. Finally, the RVA also cooperates with the police and population services of the municipalities and the OCMW. The OCMWs, FAMIFED and the social housing companies already have the data in the Crossroads Bank of Social Security at the RVA, where they can consult the unemployed file. Data on exclusions from the right to unemployment benefits can also be obtained there. With regard to the use of energy data, I also consulted Flemish colleague Liesbeth Homans, because the powers are clearly divided. We have to make arrangements. Given the relative success of this approach, we will be asked to extend its use to other purposes, but we must always ensure a proper legal framework that respects the rules of finality and proportionality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, I have already heard very striking figures of anomalies which will undoubtedly lead to subsequent effects. The primary effects are the first but the follow-up effects will be at least as important. We must not organise a witch hunt for people who do not behave properly towards the government and who collect unjust and unjust amounts, but of course it is not the intention that those who respect the rules correctly and therefore cannot collect these amounts should suffer. Social housing companies do indeed have access to the crossroads bank. However, infringements specific to residence fraud are still not known. More than that, last year there was even a specific information session of the Flemish Society for Social Living. It showed how a roadmap could be organised to deal effectively with this residence fraud. The problem was that this was the same road map that I have known for ten years and that is actually very little effective. However, I would like to thank you for your answer, and we will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, the Road Package of the European Union needs to be revised by 1 January 2019. That is a good opportunity to finally tackle the problem of social dumping in the transport sector more efficiently and vigorously. I therefore believe that it is advisable to reach a common position together with the Benelux plus countries. It would be good and useful to weigh up negotiations on European transport policy as a block. This is also one of the objectives set out in the plan for fair competition in the transport sector. In particular, a uniform interpretation of European rules and concepts, such as effective seat, cabotage and weekly rest, should be sought at Benelux-plus level. Today, the different EU Member States sometimes interpret these concepts in a different way. Even among the Member States of the Benelux plus, there is not always consensus. In the context of the Road Package negotiations, it is therefore very important to find a consensus. Will you consult with the Benelux plus countries in order to arrive effectively at a common position on these social issues and concepts mentioned above? Is there any consultation planned yet? Has that already been included in the planning? If not, will you take the initiative to organise such a consultation? Could you explain a little more about the way in which the Belgian inspection services interpret these concepts? To what extent is there a difference in the interpretation of the other Benelux plus countries? What are the main points of contention? What possibilities for consensus do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment. Much time to work in you has not been granted with our questions, but I do not think that the matter is strange to you, as you have also followed the matter in your previous capacity. I would like to join Mr Raskin. I would like to refer to the meeting of the Benelux Parliament on 18 March last, where there was a debate to arrive at a fairer form of work, on the Benelux side, with possible enlargement to Europe. Above all, we have noticed that there is no consensus in the wider Europe to combat social dumping, because sometimes the interests of each other are diametrically opposed. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that the Benelux countries are looking for partners for cooperation. I am thinking of the Baltic States and a number of border regions such as North Rhine-Westphalia or Nord-Pas-de-Calais. There may be a common position on tackling social dumping in road transport, but also in other sectors such as construction, health care and temporary agency work. As European legislation is often open to interpretation, I think it is good that the interpretation is uniformised. We have put forward six legislative proposals on this subject in this legislature. I believe that there will be a hearing in the Transport Infrastructure Committee on 18 May. I have always invited your predecessor, Mr Tommelein, and asked him to send at least one representative of his cabinet. After all, I believe that the powers in this area overlap. On this occasion, I repeat the invitation to you to that hearing. I will ask the secretariat to keep you informed. What steps will be taken and what role can Belgium play in Benelux to step up the fight against social dumping in Benelux and Europe? Will Belgium in the Benelux context increase the pressure to arrive at a common, clear and strictly interpretable definition of cabotage, post-bus companies, and driving and rest periods? I refer to the interpretation I have heard in Finland. It was new to me back then, but maybe she's offering a certain margin. Finally, where do you see the bottlenecks to arrive at a common, stricter definition of cabotage journeys, PO Box companies and driving and rest periods?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u28	Thank you for the questions. When the Road Package was presented, I had a long talk with Commissioner Bulc and the head of DG Move, Mr Hololei, about that important package, which deserves real implementation and follow-up. In my new position, I plan to consult with neighbouring countries. In June, I will go to Berlin and in the next few weeks to Paris to establish the first contacts with the Benelux-plus group in order to try to make an effective contribution to European decision-making. With 28 Members, that is not obvious, but I believe that we must act quickly with the Benelux group. As far as other Benelux countries are concerned, I have heard from my administration that the Netherlands is interested in our approach. There would also be opportunities to further develop contacts in Luxembourg. I believe that this will lead to greater support in other countries for new adjustments and the new Road Package. The Nordic Council and the Baltic Assembly have also taken on a number of aspects. I also agree with your analysis that there should be consultation with the social inspection services on drawing up national guidelines on certain concepts in the transport sector. That needs to be clarified. We are too susceptible today to different interpretations. This leads to uncertainty and discussions with the inspection services. We need clarity both in the area of employment law and in the area of social security. This is also an important point in the plan for fair competition in the transport sector. I have already planned a consultation with the FPS Mobility Inspection Services myself, in consultation with Mr Bellot. I really appreciate the invitation from the Infrastructure Committee. After all, I believe that there should be cooperation with other fellow Members. It is clear that we need unambiguous interpretations of concepts in order to be able to give clear inspection guidelines on the ground. The ultimate objective must be to create a set of social and mobility guidelines. They should not contradict each other, but they should just strengthen and clarify each other. My point of view and my policy is that the rules of the game are clear and also clearly enforceable and verifiable for inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I will not repeat myself. I refer to my previous reply. You express good intentions and ambitious objectives, but I usually remain hungry when agreements need to be made in the European context. That, of course, is not the individual responsibility of a Belgian Secretary of State. I know that, too. So I am not referring to Mr Tommelein or his predecessors. I hope that your contacts in Europe will help us to finally show a little more decisiveness, because we are all in favour of the European idea and the Europe project, but the basis is gradually crumbling. I think it's up to politics to turn that tide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u30	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. For years my concern has been that it is a story of employers and employees. We see the loss of jobs in the sector. Two or three weeks ago, I was at a conference where I spoke to all the different partners. One of the points we should be working on as legislators in Parliament is to get social dumping into social criminal law. In this way, inspection services can be strengthened. Today, as you rightly say, the pesticides are rather flou. Then we must have the political courage to complete that interpretation. If I am proposing legislation in this area and I ask for advice from the Court's Legal Service, I will be given strict legal advice in line with European directives. Of course, we know them, too. The question is how one interprets this and where one finds political support. It is therefore important that you also go to the meetings in Berlin and Northern France for the border regions in order to be able to determine this. I'll definitely ask a follow-up question after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the cash register for welfare organisations working to combat poverty. These are, for example, social restaurants where meals are offered at a low rate but which still have a turnover of more than EUR 25 000 and which therefore have to enter the white checkout. They almost always work with volunteers. If they are obliged to permanently enter any registration of a volunteer in the cash register, with the personal key and the national register number, these organisations must provide dozens of volunteers with such a key. They work with a turn role, half an hour or an hour in the morning or afternoon. So the question is to what extent these volunteers are obliged to register if they are committed to, for example, a social restaurant where a registered cash register is used. If that is mandatory, how can we achieve it in a practical way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u32	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, you also know that the legislation on the registered cash register system falls within the competence of Mr Van Overtveldt. Perhaps you could ask him about the practical application of the system. I can say, however, that the tax KB and the letter that determines what a user is, do not provide for exceptions for volunteers. It is clear, therefore, that registration is not subject to a statute but to whether or not to work with that register. If a volunteer wishes to perform activities with the cash register system, he will therefore have to identify himself with the social security identification number. An additional comment I would like to make is that registration should not be confused with the attendance registration required to obtain the RSZ target group discount. In order to qualify for this discount, all employees, including those who do not belong to the Joint Committee 302, including students, must register their presence through the cash register system or through the alternative system of the RSZ presence registration. Only occasional staff shall not be required to record attendance. Since the volunteers referred to in the law of 2005 on the rights of volunteers should not be entered in the DmfA declaration, I do not think that they should be registered on their premises or on their day-to-day basis. The employees who register their presence via the cash register to comply with the tax CF also comply with social legislation at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u33	So it's actually just the ones who work with the cash register that have to use the key. The others, who serve or walk around, should therefore have no key as they do not work with the cash register and should not be registered either. Isn't that right? (...): Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, on 12 April the air traffic controllers at Brussels Airport spontaneously dropped the work out of protest against a new social agreement. As a result of that strike, many flights were cancelled. More flights were rerouted. The action was an extra heavy damper for the airport, only three weeks after the difficult restart after the attacks. Several air traffic controllers of the Belgian Guild of Air Traffic Controllers decided that this was remarkable to suddenly call in sick. It is, however, a form of social fraud that claims to be unjustly ill. The country's largest trade union said it didn't see any bones in a disease strike: Air traffic controllers, by the nature of their job, have the right to say that they can't work if they don't feel suitable for it. In other words, they do not necessarily have to be sick. What's your assessment of this strike? Was it social fraud? What initiatives are you planning to take to combat this kind of social fraud? What is your reaction to the ACV-Transcom Secretary's ruling on the feline disease strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u35	Thank you for your question. You know that a distinction must be made in this matter, and you have just said it yourself between the first day and the second day and/or the following days of absence. At Belgocontrol there is indeed an arrangement whereby one can stay absent for the first day when one does not feel fit. That is an arrangement made for safety reasons. From the second day on, if you were wrong to call in sick, it is up to the general practitioner and the employer, in question Belgocontrol, to ensure that a doctor is sent out to make the necessary findings. As far as your second question is concerned, sickness benefits represent a considerable amount, over EUR 6 billion. I therefore believe that we really need to strengthen the control of benefit fraud. My predecessor Bart Tommelein and colleague De Block have already developed a number of initiatives to this end, such as the extension of the automatic transmission of energy data to detect fraud with sickness benefits, which is included in the 2016 budgetary control, synergies between inspection services and the centralisation of data mining between the RVA and the RIZIV, which is currently being looked at in a task force under my Presidency. It's gonna start this month. So we can quickly fire out of the starting blocks. Minister De Block has also taken other initiatives in the context of budgetary control. I will shortly have a meeting with Minister De Block to see what further initiatives we can take to better deal with the fraud of sickness benefits, both in the case of short-term and long-term absenteeism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u36	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. I don't mean to create a witch hunt against people who get sick benefits. For the sake of clarity, anyone who wrongly claims this kind of means must be called upon to do so, but again, I do not intend to open a witch hunt against people who receive sickness or disability benefits. My question stems from my indignation at the actions of air traffic controllers. I believe that they were rightly condemned by many people. If you are ill, you are entitled to sick leave. We must not tolerate the fact that someone takes advantage of this and interprets the principle of fit to work too freely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u37	Mrs. Kitir, I trust you'll ask all your combined questions after each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I do indeed have some questions about the plan for fair competition, which was signed by the social partners and the government in July 2015. One of the most important questions was making the ConstruBadge enforceable by royal decree as a visual identifier. This means of identification was also requested to be enforceable outside the Joint Committee 124 for the sectors concerned. I have the following questions on this subject. Has the measure been implemented yet? What is the state of implementation? Can the scope of the measure also be extended to foreign workers for whom a Limosa notification was made, for example by integrating the QR code only on form on the badge? So I'll ask all my questions after each other. It's easier. One of the other measures proposed was an evaluation of the scope of attendance registration in order to increase transparency and simplicity. Here again, I have the following question. What is the status of this measure? Were the regulatory texts submitted to the working group? Can you give us an update on that? One of the other measures proposed was the limitation to two of the number of entrepreneurs in the vertical chain per specialism and thus not horizontal. The fact that this is possible is demonstrated by the fact that the former Minister of Work, Mrs Milquet, has already introduced this measure in the past in the security services sector. I have the following questions about this situation. What's the status of that proposal? Were the regulatory texts submitted to the working group or to the legal advisory bodies? A further measure was the elaboration of a consultable tool, i.e. a database at the FOD WASO on the presence or non-presence of wage debts, similar to the database on the existence or non-existence of social and tax debts. This measure is also important for the optimal application of the joint and several liability regime, especially if, for example, it would be further strengthened in the context of the transposition of the Enforcement Directive, not only by taking into account wage debts after the end of a 14-day warning period. How's that going? Have texts already been submitted to the working group on this subject? Another measure was the optimisation of Limosa as an anti-fraud tool. It asked for, inter alia, the local VAT numbers for all companies established in the European Union to be included as well as the notification of the yard addresses, the indication of the contact details of a contact person and the indication of whether or not to pay a premium in the country of origin. In the context of, among other things, the rules on joint and several liability, these are relevant data. For this reason, it was also asked that the funds should also have access to them for the sake of security of life. The tax authorities were also asked for access because of this situation. How's that going? Have texts already been submitted or not? Another measure was the listing of sanctions for the most frequent infringements of social dumping. The aim was to examine, inter alia, whether unpaid fines could be settled through a retention obligation with the co-contractor. How's that going? My final question concerns the evaluation of the 1996 Welfare Act, in order to make it even more enforceable for foreign workers and the self-employed. We can see that disloyal competition is not only in the field of non-compliance with wage and working conditions, but also in competition with regard to worker safety. We ourselves had already tabled a legislative proposal to amend Articles 25 and 29 of that law in order to establish a watertight general joint and several liability regime for the safety and health of workers at the yard. Where are we with that? Have any texts been submitted to the working group or to the legal advisory bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u39	Thank you for your questions, which have enabled me to take stock of the action plan for fair competition in the construction sector. A number of measures have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. I'll sum them up. The measures implemented are as follows: The threshold for attendance registration was reduced to yards of EUR 500 000 since 1 March 2016. The entry in Limosa of the local VAT number for companies established in the EU was carried out. The Human Trafficking Action Plan involves local authorities in the fight against social dumping, which has also been implemented. The hotline for fair competition started on 1 October 2015 and it will be extended this month with the button organizations, which is also interesting. The tripartite local consultation bodies for social dumping in the construction sector are also operational today. The legal basis for a new law on public procurement was laid down and will be further developed in implementing Royal Decrees. This concerns, among other things, the unauthorized low prices, the recognition of subcontractors and the number of contractors per specialty in the chain. For the recognition of subcontractors, budget control has already acquired funds for four additional file managers at the FPS Economy. A number of action points are still in progress. This includes the establishment of an hourly labour cost information table for the 10 Member States that send the largest number of posted workers to Belgium and the improvement of CBO data. Of the list of sanctions for the most frequent infringements, I can say that the list has already been made, but also that no concrete agreements have yet been reached on the possibility of non-payment of fines by the co-contractor. However, the department of the administrative fines of the FOD WASO projects has run with the FOD Finance to achieve a better and an electronic exchange of information and an outsourcing of the collection of these administrative fines to the non-fiscal recovery offices. The optimization of Limosa is in full swing. As I said earlier, in the 2016 budgetary control, resources have been made available to make the necessary adjustments, in line with the Building Action Plan. Finally, a number of action points are currently being examined by Mr Peeters: more and more targeted checks on the CE marking of building materials and the introduction of the ConstruBadge, as I have just mentioned. There are also discussions with the administrations on the scope, the exemption of architects, the extension to shift managers, with a view to legal adaptation. The consultable database of wage debts is also the responsibility of Mr Peeters. The Building Action Plan includes a non-public database where employers can check whether one of their subcontractors is known for wage debts or not. I believe that, in the long term, there would be an app, for example at the RSZ, bringing together the available data on social debts, tax debts, wage debts, Limosa obligations, so that it becomes much easier to control. If the green light is given four times, the message is that it is an honest contractor. I think that is a very easy way to visualise and control the chain of liability. One final point, with the evaluation of the Welfare Act, the Building Action Plan stipulates that this measure must be implemented by the social partners, after which joint opinions are passed on to the Minister for Labour. The social partners still need to take an initiative in this area. In any case, it has become clear to me that the action plan has not remained a dead letter at all, that many things have already been or will be realized. I believe that we must continue to work well together between the competent administrations and with the social partners and the players in the field in order to step up the fight against social fraud and social dumping and to put it into practice. That is a common struggle of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, the action plan concluded with the social partners is indeed a good thing. I am pleased to hear that some measures have already entered into force. I also understand that there are still a lot of measures to be discussed or implemented by your colleague, Minister Peeters. It was a very broad and comprehensive question, so I will look at your answer again and if I have any further questions, I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, my question may be more of a list in a written answer, but I would like to put it orally in order to get a relatively quick answer. Of course, I am also satisfied with a copy of your reply, including for my fellow Members on enlargement. However, I leave that assessment to you. Two groups of workers are active in the Belgian labour market: Belgians and workers of foreign nationality. It goes without saying that both groups must be regularly monitored by the federal social inspection services in the fight against social fraud. I have one specific question, Mr Secretary of State. Our social inspectors have a range of tools and tools at their disposal to carry out the checks. Can you tell me which tools cannot be used for checks on foreign workers, but for checks on Belgians?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u42	Mr Raskin, you refer to the various databases available to inspectors and inspection services. All instruments actually have a very specific scope. Dimona, for example, concerns only the notification of the Belgian employment relationship. It would be problematic, also in the context of free movement, to apply, for example, the operations of a Dimona by foreign companies. However, in other databases specific tools were created to include a similar objective in other structures. The attendance registration applies, of course, to both the Belgians and the non-Belgen. Attendance registration is mandatory for anyone who carries out real estate work at certain workshops. That is therefore a very clear obligation. A number of applications are also bundled, the so-called Genesis platform. This will make different instruments of inspectors accessible to different inspection services. Dolcis has also joined, an application based on self-service. So a lot of things have been listed today. I can give you the answer in writing later. The inspectors today have instruments that enable checks on Belgians as well as non-Belgen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u43	Mr. Secretary of State, I'll go over the list in peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u44	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are pleased to note that your predecessor has asked for additional resources for the inspection services. In the past, we have called for this on several occasions. Your predecessor had also promised to effectively ask for more resources for this. We are now hearing that good news is that by 1 July 100 new inspectors should be working at the inspection services. This should result in a return of EUR 25 million of additional revenue on top of the EUR 100 million already foreseen as a result of tackling social fraud. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you the following questions. In the meantime, what's the status of the recruitment procedure? July 1st is coming soon. Will that timing be achieved and will these 100 inspectors be effective from then on? Is that practically feasible? We also know that a first infringement would not immediately result in a fine. The person concerned shall have six months to regularise himself. After six months, a review will be carried out to determine whether the infringement has been repaired or corrected. Does that apply to all types of infringements? I could still live with it if you say it applies to minor infringements, for example a forgotten icon somewhere. Does this also apply to serious infringements, such as undeclared work or serious security problems? Do you not think there is a good chance that people and companies in the sector will respond to this? The probability of Even with a hundred extra inspectors, the odds are low, because those inspectors can't possibly check all the cases everywhere. In addition to the limited possibility of control, no penalty is imposed in any case because the person concerned is given the first chance to put the infringement in order. Doesn't that make you feel like it's not so bad not being okay? The people and companies may wait until they get control, because it is possible that there will never be a check or that the first check will only fall after five years, and after that check there will still be six months to get things right. In short, I think that this could have a perverse effect, if that were the case, especially if this were the case for all types of fraud. If you stick to the six-month transitional period, how do you intend to get an additional EUR 25 million? The additional inspectors will not arrive until 1 July. If you add six months to that, will you not make the extra EUR 25 million, unless you have already started warning about the past period?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u45	We all know that the fight against social fraud must be carried out very widely. There is not only the recruitment of additional inspectors and the increase in the chances of being caught, but there is also the improvement of the technological means with which we are looking for fraud. I also think it is important that preventive work is carried out. In recent months and years, a policy has been pursued to try to increase flexibility and reduce labour costs. That is a very important aspect that needs to be taken into account. My predecessor has launched this policy and I intend to pursue it. It is quite clear that we want to send a signal with this government that, in addition to the necessary savings in public administration, there are also investments in sectors that we consider important to combat, detect and tackle, among other things, social fraud. My predecessor, together with Mr Peeters and Mr Borsu, has taken the initiative of bringing the social dumping and social fraud plan into the budgetary negotiations. There we were able to obtain 96 additional inspectors, 10% more than we have today. I believe that this responds to the demands of the social partners. This does not mean that the extra EUR 25 million will come from those inspectors alone. We have developed other axes in our fight against social and tax fraud in order to achieve this amount. There is a reorganisation of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Services, and there is the recruitment of the additional inspectors. There is the fight against bogus statute and the increase in administrative fines in the event of fraud. There is also an axis aimed at implementing the plans that have just been discussed in the construction and transport sectors. We want to make a strong commitment to this through the follow-up of the Social Fraud Communication Point, and to strengthen the organisation of the social flash checks. The recruitment of inspectors, of course, takes time. We are going to start by looking at how we can do something through the recruitment reserve so that we can speed up that process. On the other hand, of course, there is no way of excluding us from doing something extra that will delay us a little. However, we are trying to get started as soon as possible. Then I come to your question about the infringements. It is quite clear that the administrative fines are small forgetfulness. It's never about level four serious infringements. We cannot allow that to happen, that is clear. We are also going to carry out a re-check within six months with this mandatory regularisation. We assume that this measure will not only be budget-neutral, but will also have positive effects on the ground and will be almost educational. After that, it will be quite clear that people can meet the standards we expect from them. Moreover, we can also increase the fines in the self-employed system. This also makes it possible to recover them better. We are effectively trying to give bona fide employers more structure and guidance on what to do, on how to deal with these things, but at the same time we are trying to get the real crooked employers out and to really step up that fight over the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, we have also called for more inspectors, and I hope that you will make a real effort to recruit them as soon as possible. Maybe 1 July is not entirely realistic, but I hope that a lot of people can be recruited. With regard to the EUR 25 million, we will look at this at the end of the year. You're saying it's broader than just those inspectors. I hope that you can achieve that and that it is not just a figure given to close the gap in the budget. I hope with you that it will yield something. You speak of minor offences, there is a list of which offences are being looked at and which are not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u47	There will normally be a letter of conversion and I will share with you the first thoughts in that regard. It's really about little oblivion and little mistakes. It's not about serious violations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u48	It must not be the intention for serious infringements to give people a free pass, so to speak, to say that they must do so and that you will not do anything until they are caught. For then one might as well say in traffic that when driving through the red light one simply gets a warning and that only after a subsequent offence is fined. That is not the intention, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u49	We also do not adapt the law, everything remains the same in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u50	All right, I'll keep following that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-commissie-ic408x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament 11193 by Mr Janssens is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 11200 was postponed. Mrs Caprasse is not present to ask her question number 11225. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 11269 was postponed.
