ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 February 2016, I propose that the draft law simplifying the procedure for the transfer of wages, Nos 1585/1 to 4, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 February 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill simplifying the procedure for the transfer of remuneration, Nos. 1585/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u3	Mr President, yesterday, in the Committee on the Review of the Constitution, there was unanimity to include the bill on the deontological committee on today's agenda. You didn't mention that, but that was decided yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u4	It's in my documents. I confirm, for the record, that we will also be discussing this issue today. I also propose to you on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Dirk Van Mechelen, Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Catherine Fonck and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the law of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, No. 1616/1, to be registered. I also propose that the bill be placed on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session (Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, MM. Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Dirk Van Mechelen, Ms Meryame Kitir and Catherine Fonck and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, No. 1616/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u5	Mr President, my group wishes to be able to put its questions to a Deputy Prime Minister. I called you this morning to explain that the political situation facing Minister Galant requires an answer, not from the Prime Minister – as he is attending a European meeting – but from a Deputy Prime Minister. I received a telephone call from you, Mr. Chairman, about half an hour ago to inform me that the government did not accept your request and that it preferred that Mrs Galant herself answer the question of my colleagues who want to know what the government thinks of Ms Galant's attitude. You can imagine the absurdity of the situation in which the government places parliament! This morning, you said, "Yes, that's normal. The situation is taking a rather unexpected political turn." Should I recall the words of officials of your own party, the N-VA? They consider that Minister Galant has become minister of "immobility". Once again, there is a tension, if not a crisis, within the majority. It is on this subject that we want to question the government today. Should we accept as parliamentarians that it is Minister Galant who responds to us about the bad case in which she puts the government? It's obviously unimaginable for us. I therefore ask you, Mr President, that my colleagues Van Hecke and Cheron, who have introduced questions to the Prime Minister, should be able to obtain answers from a Deputy Prime Minister. The problem is not knowing what Mrs Galant is going to think; she has already delivered four or five different versions. It's no longer of interest. Today, what matters is what the government thinks of the situation in which Ms. Galant re-distributes the SNCB and, through it, each of the commuters and each of the travellers. Of course they're the ones we're thinking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u6	Mr President, I am facing the same problem. This morning, we were told that the Prime Minister would not be present and that the matter would be referred to Ms. Galant. Are we going to hear for the umpteenth time the umpteenth version of Mrs Galant and her umpteenth lie or her umpteenth error of numbers? The minister now seems to even have a problem of up to four. We knew that counting beyond him was already difficult, but today it is already a problem for him up to four. Given the number of Deputy Prime Ministers, there may well be a draw among them to tell us who can answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u7	Mr President, I also asked the Prime Minister a question on this subject. First I was sent back to Mrs Galant, then to the Prime Minister, who will be replaced by no one knows who, but I feel it will be Mrs Galant. I dare this comparison, Mr President: if a teacher has problems with a student and he calls his parents, in case they cannot go to the parents' meeting, they can eventually send an uncle, an aunt... but not the child himself! You understand that this is a problem. To hear Mrs Galant on this subject is not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u8	Colleagues, Mr. Filip Dewinter's question to the Prime Minister is being redirected to Deputy Prime Minister Jambon. Questions about the RSP addressed to the Prime Minister will be directed to Minister Galant. In this context, I would point out that the system of oral questions does not provide for a fixed replacement, in the sense that, for example, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Peeters in this case, should always reply to questions addressed to the Prime Minister, in his absence. I was promised the following. On the other hand, it was promised that Minister Galant would respond on behalf of the government and that on that occasion she would not only speak as Minister of Mobility. [[Tumult on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me the opportunity to convey to you the explanation which has been given and which I have indeed accepted, Mrs Temmerman. Indeed, no point in the Regulations can justify the refusal of the government's request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u10	Mr. Chairman, I understand that the Rules do not provide for the possibility of prohibiting a minister, in this case Ms. Galant, from answering a question. But today it is a political problem, not a problem of settlement. The government is represented. Mr Peeters is here and no questions are addressed to him. Its presence in this chamber is proof that there is a political problem. Mr President, I am therefore going to address him. Mr Peeters, you know what we are in today. You are aware of the various statements made by Minister Galant and of the "mobility" of her answers, I dare say. One day there is a two-lane RER, another there is a four-lane RER. Who knows if earlier, there will be no mention of six ways? However, in the meantime, the work is not moving forward and the passengers are still waiting for their train. Deputy Prime Minister, my colleagues would like to ask a question about the reliability of the elements and answers given by your colleague, Minister Galant. These questions are addressed to the Prime Minister who is not present. We understand it and we apologize. But are you not in a position, Mr Peeters, to speak in this rostrum and to tell us what is happening on behalf of the government? Do you still want to push Minister Galant into the gallery today by letting her come alone when we need to know what the government is thinking, including conflicting statements from important parties of your majority? Mr Peeters, for five minutes of political courage! Get up and answer questions related to the RSP on behalf of the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u11	Mr President, we can only share this perplexity. In fact, when I take up the document presented to you with the table of questions, those relating to the RER stricto sensu are included under the title of the Prime Minister and the questions relating to the RER four ways are addressed to Mrs Galant. Which is impossible! Mrs. Galant doesn't know the four-lane RER! So there had to be a reversal. It would be more useful to group all the questions together into the first of the available Deputy Prime Ministers, so as to obtain an answer on behalf of the Government and not on behalf of an Under-Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u12	Mr President, I can only reiterate my request. One of the Deputy Prime Ministers must respond to our wish to hear at least one on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u13	I would like to point out that this is not the case in the Rules of Procedure. But the Deputy Prime Minister, Kris Peeters, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u14	Mr President, I would point out to my colleagues that I spoke to the Prime Minister by telephone. He is currently in London. I've been on the phone with the Prime Minister. The questions asked are important. Your questions are obviously relevant. Jacqueline Galant will answer on behalf of the government. It's the most important thing. It doesn't make any difference. It is important to know that the Minister of Trade, who is of course very well placed, will give an answer that is fully covered by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the whole Government. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to lend my support to your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u15	Mr. Chairman, this is a demonstration of the weakness of the government. I'll explain. My colleague is going to ask Minister Galant what the government thinks of the situation she has put herself in. What we would have needed today, Deputy Prime Minister, is the strong word of someone who, on behalf of the government, can say that there has indeed been a bad communication but that commitments are being made today to commuters. Minister Galant is no longer credible to do so. You have to speak on behalf of the government. My colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, wishes to ask the government how he can still trust Minister Galant. She herself will have to answer that question. Mr Peeters, you are well aware that this is not the way to go. I therefore ask you to reconsider your position and take your place. Otherwise you would not be here, since no questions on the agenda have been addressed to you. Besides, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u16	Colleagues, I take note of the different opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u17	Minister, at the end of March Iranian President Hassan Rohani is reported to visit our country. It is the first time since the boycott, which has lasted a long time, that an Iranian president visits our country. First and foremost, I wonder why it is necessary for that man to visit our country. We all know what the situation in Iran is like right now. There is discrimination against women there. Last year, 3.6 million women were fined and often even put in prison because they dared not cover the face and head with a headscarf. There is the suppression of minorities of all kinds. There is the fact that political opponents and dissidents end up in prison. There is the spectacular increase in executions by almost 800 % in barely fifteen years and so on. Iran is one of the most totalitarian and extreme religious-Islamic states in the world. I'd like to hear you answer that. Secondly, if you do think it is necessary to receive this man here, how will you do that? We have seen in Italy where all this has led: all too naked images were covered; in France a lunch was cancelled because the man wanted a halal meal and did not want to drink French wine and more such ridiculous situations. Will you receive the Iranian President? Will you at least bring him to justice about the human rights situation in his country with discrimination against women, the repression of minorities, the executions of political opponents and so on? If you receive him, will you give some consideration to our way of life, to the values and standards that are ours, such as equality between men and women, to the fact that we, as Europeans, live like us, and not in the way that the Iranian President of State would like to impose on us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u18	In the absence of the Prime Minister, I am happy to give his answer. I can confirm that discussions are currently taking place on a possible visit by Iranian President Hassan Rohani to Belgium. There is no date yet, the programme has yet to be set. That bilateral meeting would involve a meeting with the Prime Minister and with the King. Furthermore, it is quite possible that the Iranian President may visit the European institutions, as is often the case when a Head of State visits here. If his visit can be programmed, it fits into an open diplomatic approach. Dialogue, including on the issue of the reintegration of Iranian nationals who are illegally residing on our territory, is an essential tool if we are to continue to normalise relations between Iran and the international community. The nuclear agreement which entered into force on 16 January 2016 confirms that shipownership. On 25 January 2016, the Iranian President met in Rome with the Italian Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi, and three days later with the French President, François Hollande. A visit by the Iranian President to Austria is also planned for the end of March. I would also remind you that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs travelled to Iran on 8 November 2015 for a three-day official visit. The visit, of which all details are not yet established, will not be a state visit, as several media have announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u19	Your first words were telling: I am now reading the Prime Minister's answer. I am sure that, should you be allowed to express your personal opinion on the matter, you might have made other nuances, but that aside. I note that he is coming, that it is not a state visit, but that he will visit the king and the prime minister. You'll have to explain the difference to me again. Eventually, that's not important either. It is important that people lick the candle leather because of the lubrication. Human rights must give way to trade relations, pennies and contracts with Iran, as is usually the case. A country such as Iran is given freedom of action and is exonerated when we receive it without any reserve, without the intention to bring the country to justice about the human rights situation there. I didn't hear about that. Nor have I heard of the fact that you will not make any concessions in our way of life. Then what do we get in our country? Do we see Manneke Pis with a djellaba when the President of Iran enters the big market? Do we see Queen Mathilde with a burqa? Are the paintings of Rubens covered with black cloths? Is that what Rohani's supposed to do when he comes to our country? I hope not. I hope that the government will protest strongly when it comes to human rights and will not make any concessions in our way of life, which, unfortunately, has been done in Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u20	The questions put by Mr Crusnière, Mr Maingain and Mr Burton, who were addressed to Minister Galant, will be dealt with at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u21	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, the fact that the government has decided not to speak through a Deputy Prime Minister instead of the absent Prime Minister is a very clear signal. This is evidence of the possibility that there may be no agreement within the government. Minister, yesterday, the Prime Minister turned his attention to this issue. This is the demonstration that the RER you served us in your sauce, this bogus RER, is a complete decoy for commuters. Yet you were so sure of yourself, Tuesday and the previous days. This new RER with Galant sauce was going to solve everything! This RER was an illusion because it would not have ensured a rate of at least four trains per hour. Political mobilization and citizen mobilization are good: the Prime Minister has made a volte-face. But your statements, worse, your decisions have dramatically weakened Francophones because a four-way RSP was a thing acquired in the 2002 cooperation agreement. By your statements, you take the risk of having Francophones pay twice what was already acquired! Minister, I will address the Prime Minister. What are the political and budgetary guarantees that this RSP will be a reality within the government, that it will be implemented, that the cooperation agreement will be respected? It will certainly require a budget of between 700 and 900 million euros, but there are solutions to this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u22	Prime Minister, I will not attempt to demonstrate your Minister's incompetence. It would be to break a door open. But I still have to ask you this question: were the words that your Minister Galant made one day the same or were they not the same as those that she made the other day? I would like you to confirm that. Beyond that, I would like to touch on the substance of the problem. Somewhere, you're the tree that hides the forest, even if you do well in the genre. At one point, the conclusions of this incompetent policy will have to be drawn. But the root of the problem, for me, is the indigence of public administration which is polluted by so many years of neoliberal austerity and by the community. I'll make a little historical comparison, if I may. The first railway line in the history of our country and the world was debated and voted here in May 1834. In May 1835, it was realized. The locomotives, the wagons, the lines: everything was done in a year. The ER was decided in 1999, and we are announced 2025 as the likely date. Two lanes or four lanes, we don't know yet. Community problems are found in the problems of the RSP at each stage. Today, some are putting oil on fire at Community level. Secondly, there is the problem of public de-financing. This is the issue of mobility. Today's mobility is that Brussels is a champion of traffic jams. The Brussels rings cause 3 million euros of loss per day due to the traffic jams. Pollution is responsible for 12,000 premature deaths per year in Belgium. Prime Minister, beyond the fate of your Minister Galant, who will still have to be resolved, my question is about the environmental issues, which are fundamental. Are you going to release or not the EUR 700 million needed for the completion of the four-lane ER? I give you a lead, Prime Minister: according to a European decision, 700 million are owed by 35 multinationals. You have 700 million at your disposal, which you can invest directly in the RER. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u23	Mr. President, Prime Minister, we almost attended yesterday on your land a demonstration – this is already an event – of agents of the MR. It's still amazing! These elected representatives would express their revolt at decisions taken by a minister of the same party as theirs, on an essential issue, that of mobility. They're watching the trains... They were threatened to have to explain to their residents that all this work, which, for years, in some parts of my Walloon Brabant, has bothered the residents – as an MR mayor explained yesterday – had been of no use. Beyond this legitimate MR rebellion - which I support! - I think, Madam Minister, today promoted Prime Minister, that you have provoked a controversy about the words used. Some people bother you with the numbers. I'm trying to measure the weight of your words. Why do you ever talk about "two ways" to say, the next day, "it's obviously four ways"? Is that the final version? Are you going to stop this MR revolt in Walloon Brabant? Especially for commuters and train users in general, for those whom we want to attract in large numbers by means of speed trains, comfortable, user-friendly and ad hoc, has the government made a decision on a clear source of funding and on the modalities that will allow us to finally complete the "RMR" project? [[Laughs]] I did not do it on purpose: the words to say it came to me spontaneously listening to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u24	Madam Secretary, you've already had a serious run. It has begun with a policy of saving which is squeezing SNCB to death. After that, you've had some trouble hiring lawyers. Now there is the postponement of suburban networks, not just for Brussels. After all, you immediately connected that the planned suburban networks around Antwerp and Ghent would also be postponed. A majority party says you're the Minister of Stoppage. You were flogged back yesterday, not only by the MR of Walloon Brabant, but also by your own Prime Minister. Colleagues, that is not very nice. The worst of it is that there is only one victim of all this clumsyness: the traveller who wants to use public transport daily to go to work or school. You have decided to put the suburban networks around Ghent and Antwerp on the long track. That is completely incomprehensible and contrary to the coalition agreement. These are two cities that are moaning under the mobility problems. I must not tell you, Mr President. They really need a mobility policy, at Flemish level but also at federal level, to solve these problems. I therefore have two questions, Madam Secretary. Are all the majority parties today behind your decision to postpone and delay the suburban networks around Ghent and Antwerp? I'm asking for all the majority parties. Does the N-VA support this decision? Do the coalition partners still have faith in your policy? Of course, it's bizarre that I should ask you that. It is probably unique in history that you have to answer that question yourself, not a Prime Minister or a Deputy Prime Minister. Then say it yourself: what do your coalition partners think about your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin my speech, Madam Minister, by quoting to you: "Today, as a result of studies which have been carried out and which I have also requested in order to precisely optimize investments and avoid unnecessary work, it is clear that certain lines must not be put on four tracks." These are your own words you spoke on Tuesday in front of the RTBF cameras. They echoed what you said earlier in the committee: "We need to express serious political choices and, for too long, infrastructure work has been disconnected from the land supply. It is the technicians, the engineers of SNCB and Infrabel who have optimized the investments that consider that the four-lane roll-out of the entire line is not necessary." It was clear, we can't be clearer. But today you tell us that you have not been understood. Madam Minister, I can confirm that. We didn't understand you. We didn't understand your position in this case. When I say "we," it's not just about us. They are also the commuters, the inhabitants of Walloon Brabant, those who spend hours morning and evening in their car, waiting for a RER. They didn't understand you either. They don't follow you and, most importantly, they're sick of it. But, obviously, the truth of a day is not the truth of the next day. Indeed, 24 hours later, last night, after burying the Walloon RER, you said that this has never been called into question, that this remains the priority, that you will find budgets and even place it on the government table, unless we have misunderstood again. Madam Minister, beyond all polemics, we want a commitment today. We want a solemn commitment to this assembly, to all parties, the majority as opposed. We don't want wood tongues or paraphrases anymore. We want a clear and unambiguous message. As we have just been confirmed that you are speaking on behalf of the government, this is a commitment on behalf of the government. Minister, are you and the government firmly and definitively committed to putting all of the 161 and 124 lines on four tracks? Do you and the government commit to the federal government providing the necessary funds to carry out this vital work for mobility around Brussels during the next budget adjustment? Are you and the government firmly committed to the completion of all the work of the ER, including the full four-lane roll-out of lines 161 and 124, in 2025, as you confirmed a year ago? Be clear and precise in your response and on your commitments, Minister. He only cares about you this time, we understand you well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what is this government's mobility policy still really? What the minister said on Tuesday in committee involved the whole government, and not just Mrs Galant. I even have the weakness to believe that, as Ms. Galant has been in the government for some time, she did not come to make a statement on Tuesday without, at the very least, having the approval of the Prime Minister's office. So, Tuesday, the whole government was giving up the RER project in Wallonia. Then there was the collective protest. We have even seen MR mayors, who said worse than hang in the past of the RER, move on today because the users are the first to have manifested themselves in inciting the volte-face that we know. To hear you answer on behalf of the government won't convince anyone, Mrs. Galant! Your word no longer has any credibility! That is why the Prime Minister or a Deputy Prime Minister was expected to answer the following three questions. Is the government now committed to holding the RSP project within a strict time frame, in principle 2025, for the four-lane roll-out of lines 161 and 124? Yes or no? No procrastination! Will the budgetary appropriations be made available in full to meet this deadline? Yes or no? And will this take place without political bargaining, without any consideration? Indeed, the N-VA already brings a claim on the table, namely the waffle technique, the counterpart for the north of the country. I would remind you that, for Flanders, the RER has been financed. This is the real debate that awaits you in the government. Without consideration for Flanders or is it already allowed to take over an additional advantage? For those who do not want a community problem, even within Ecolo, let them listen to Mrs Durant's comments broadcast this morning on RTBF's antennas!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, in April 2003, the federal state and the Regions had endorsed the RER agreement, which set out the scope of the work. The agreement also defined what had been called the suburban offer. To set up the financing of this infrastructure work, the RER fund had been set up. By the end of 2014, the government wanted to understand, objectively and realistically, the situation of this RER fund and the situation inherited from past policies. Several points were highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u28	Excuse me, Mr. Burton. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really not going well anymore. The noise level is too high. I ask you to be polite. You have to be polite. You have the floor, Mr. Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u29	First, two billion had been spent while no real suburban offers had been proposed. Then many construction sites were blocked, for various reasons; I hope you will explain what and why. Today, as you have pointed out, there remains about EUR 120 million in this RER fund, which is not a scoop in view of the unnecessary expenditure of the previous two governments. However, as our Prime Minister clearly points out, the RER issue is a priority for our government, which will take all necessary action within the time constraints. As Walloon Brabançon and Mayor MR, Mr. Maingain, I am particularly pleased that the four-lane roll-out of the Wallonia RER lines to Brussels has always been and remains a priority. The Prime Minister had already recalled that last week. Let me therefore ask you a number of questions, Madam Minister. Could you, as a first step, confirm the reasons why the work is stopped on line 124 and tell us whether this is directly related to this RER fund? Could you confirm to us that the savings of Infrabel and SNCB have not allocated this RER fund, which is – as has been pointed out – an independent fund? Thirdly, what do you think are the causes of the delay in this work and mainly in Wallonia? Is this an underestimation of spending under previous governments? Indeed, I repeat, it seems to me that the opposition has a very short memory! Fourthly, can you give us an overview of the important work that has already been done in terms of infrastructure and the next steps that you intend to propose to us? Finally, in your interview this weekend in L'Echo, you said that the situation was known to previous ministers. Has the RER Fund been properly fed in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beste collega's, we all have the same community of interest in the RER dossier, whether it is the SNCB, Infrabel, the Regions, the mayors, the federal government, which makes it its priority: the completion as soon as possible of an RER in, towards and around Brussels. The Prime Minister repeated this in this gallery last week. My objective and, above all, my actions reinforce the suburban offer from day to day. At no time did I announce the abandonment of the RER in Wallonia. (Protests on many benches) Yes, ladies and gentlemen, with realism, intellectual honesty towards the citizens, but also with concern, I have found that, for years, very many years, there has been a lack of resources in the RER fund to complete all the work on lines 161 and 124. Most of you didn't know that. This situation was well known to previous ministers in charge of this matter for at least five years. Yet no one has taken responsibility for finding or negotiating solutions. I would also like to point out that, contrary to the statements made by some, the budgetary savings of the SNCB Group have never directly or indirectly affected the means of the RER fund. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have endeavoured to respond to the government's desire to speed up the implementation of the ER, in accordance with the government agreement. Yes, I have launched a real offer of suburban S trains, where further improvements will be made as part of the 2017 transport plan, with an increase in the number of trains, frequencies, speed and new stop points. A suburban offer means up to four trains per hour. Yes, together with SNCB and Infrabel, we have worked on proposals to maximize existing railway facilities so that lines 124 and 161 can enjoy a suburban offer, I repeat, of four trains per hour, as well as station facilities as quickly as possible. To this end, SNCB and Infrabel will concentrate all their efforts on certain sections instead of respecting the initial programming of the work, i.e. everything and everywhere at the same time! Yes, with the Prime Minister, I also hope that the unfinished lines will be put on four tracks. This will allow, as promised, an enrichment of the suburban supply in quality, for example with better punctuality, and in the types of relations, notably via the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. No, it's not an easy file, on the contrary. I want to point out that the four-lane work on Line 124 is now at a standstill because of problems with the cancellation of town planning permits. The permit application procedure has to be restarted from the beginning! It may take two to three years for a new licence to be issued. I am willing to table on the government table a complete file, both technical and financial, setting out a realistic timetable for all the work on lines 161 and 124 and the related funding requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u31	Minister: "I did not say that!"; That's what you just told us. I have at your disposal all the highlights of your statements of the last few days. The last time, the Prime Minister had come to answer in plenary about Clifford Chance and he had told us, "She was reckless." If the Prime Minister had come to answer today, he would have said, "She was misunderstood." In a way, you're the unwise misunderstood. Let's move on! Some say that it was well known to previous governments, that 2 billion were used to do nothing, etc. Mr. Reynders, Deputy Prime Minister of this government, during his 2014 election campaign, has repeatedly stated with conviction that the four-track RSP will be completed by 2019. Minister, don't come here to tell us stories. Your S offer is one thing, but it will never replace a four-lane RER for commuters, with a minimum rate of four trains per hour. Have ambition for mobility! We ask you very clearly to come back to Parliament and do the same exercise with the regional ministers in charge of Mobility, to present a very clear planning of the four-lane RER, and not a RER!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u32	Minister, do you realize what you just said? "At no time did I announce the end of the RER." That's what you just said here. We're showing you that you said so. You're told the texts, and you're still lying. You say you said things with intellectual honesty. For the intellectual character, joker! I will not comment on this aspect. On the subject of honesty, excuse me for saying that you have raised lies to the rank of management mode. We are not going to remind you of the previous cases: each time you lied and each time the Prime Minister came to your aid. Today, I do not see a Prime Minister or even a Deputy Prime Minister coming to help you. I mean, I see one, but he refused to come to your rescue and he even explained it. It's not very "Galant" on your part, Mr. Peeters. At one point, we must be able to draw conclusions. Excuse me, Madam Minister, but there is no other word: you lied!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u33	Minister, how can I say that? So everyone misunderstood what you said. The whole world has misunderstood your words. So why didn't you tell the Infrastructure Committee that you were going to commit yourself to the four-tracking of the two lines that leave Brussels to go to Ottignies and to Nivelles? It's not by chance. It's not misunderstanding. How can you believe what you're saying today? We take note, once again, of the statements. What we want is facts. From now on, and with the MR agents of the Walloon Brabant, I will apply myself to carry out a permanent monitoring of all your decisions. Is the government going to adopt a funding plan to implement your remarks today on the four-track approach? Will the acceleration of deadlines be met? Madam, we do not need statements today, but facts. That's what we want to control day after day, and we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u34	Mr President, Minister, you did not answer my questions. I just came by to check with the Deputy Prime Minister to see if the answer read out is in line with your version or that a magazine might have been forgotten. You did not answer the questions about the suburban networks of Ghent and Antwerp. I have clearly asked whether this decision is supported by all the parties to the government. Madam Minister, is the decision to postpone the suburban networks of Ghent and Antwerp supported by the entire government? You're nodding? That was in the written record? This is a very specific question. You're nodding in denial? Or affirmative? Nobody knows.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u35	You have heard the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u36	Mr President, there is no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u37	Mr Van Hecke, you know even better than I do that you can then ask questions, interpret and so on. There are many parliamentary means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u38	Mr President, the Minister is not responding to the question whether the government supports this decision. The vice prime minister's checking his cell phone to see if there's an answer coming in. No one can answer that question. So I assume the whole government supports that decision. I assume N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V support the decision to postpone suburban networks. That is very bizarre, because this morning you were shot at by N-VA, Madam Secretary of Immobility, and in the government you are being slavishly followed by your politics. Mr President, I think we can only draw a conclusion. I have a proposal for savings. Perhaps we can abolish the Galant cabinet immediately, because we have seen today that we really do not have much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u39	Minister, how can you still believe this? Today in open session, you said exactly the opposite of what you said in committee. Having said that, I have some positive aspects, as you confirm the four-tracking. You will, but you must be believed, present to the government a technical and financial file. I hope that you will not bring a funding dossier, but a solution to the financing. Given the importance of the subject, you have to get to work seriously. You called him a tough one. That's right. Besides, it's been going on for a long time. He deserves more clarity in your leader. That is why I wrote to you asking for an emergency meeting with the elected representatives of the Walloon Brabant, the experts of SNCB, Infrabel and your firm to obtain all the clarifications in this area and a precise timetable. It is high time, Madam Minister, to roll up your sleeves and get to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u40	Mr President, I understand that no other member of the government has taken on the responsibility of coming to answer questions from Parliament. The emptiness of your answer, minister, shows that in reality, the choice was to give up the RSP. You have made no commitment to its funding, deadlines and technical implementation. Why? Because this government and your majority had turned their backs on this project. This is demonstrated by Infrabel's reports, which show the reduction in the investment budget's share of the RER, particularly under the current majority. [[We are no longer even 30%, which was the investment rate in 2012 and 2013.]] We are now down to 12 per cent. It's your political choice. Since this project is devoid of transparency, when so often we hear this requirement, I will propose just after the carnival leave the creation of a special committee in this Parliament to follow up on the RER dossier and demonstrate the same requirement of transparency here as in other parliamentary assemblies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I also thank you for once again confirming on behalf of the government that the ER remains a top priority. The question that remains is why your predecessors did not act, seeing that the RER fund was insufficient. Thank you for initiating a process of consultation with the Regions. That has not been mentioned. This is totally new, and it is worth stressing. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u42	That was not in the minister's response!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u43	Yes, Mr. Cheron. I stress it, since you have forgotten it! Finally, I thank you for reshaping the situation and for focusing on the transport offer. Your will is to value and optimize the existing infrastructure to the benefit of commuters, because in the end, beyond these polemics, it is their situation that matters. The essential thing is the supply and the service that is given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister of the Interior, after many procrastinations, it seems that your government will adopt, tomorrow, a plan to combat radicalism, namely the "Canal Plan", called the Molenbeek Plan a few weeks ago. I have read a press article about a positive aspect of this plan that I would like to highlight here. Thus, the plan highlights the central role of the local police as a real lever for monitoring and displacing information on suspects. Indeed, in order to get the information up and down, it is essential that the local police be dedicated to this role. My group welcomes the fact that the government finally recognizes the importance of local police, community policing as part of an effective policy to combat radicalism. For the rest, I regret to have to say to all my colleagues that both the political approach and the working method are serious problems for us. In your political approach, Mr. Minister of the Interior, there is a form of obsession with Brussels. You seem to be unaware that the problem of radicalism affects the whole country, namely the Brussels Region as well as the other cities of the country. The weight of words must also be taken into account. I'm going back to a sentence you said. You said that you were going to clean Molenbeek to explain, then, that you were going to personally take over the file, that we would go to the houses to control, that we were going to fight radicalism in Molenbeek and more generally in the Brussels Region. In doing so, you have offended a population, a commune. Moreover, the mayor of Molenbeek immediately announced that she was refusing this measure. It was the bashing of Molenbeek and Brussels. In a second phase, at the beginning of the year, you came back with a new formula, the Canal Plan. Not bad! But what is it for the bruxellois? The Canal Plan is re-urbanization, redevelopment around the Canal. It's a project of the Brussels government. Disgust of the government, contempt of the population. This is unacceptable! Why persist on the seven Brussels and Vilvorde communes that I do not forget? I would like to take this opportunity to greet my colleague. As you know, my municipality is part of your project. I haven't had a departure to Syria for two years and I don't have any returns either. I'm not saying there won't be any more because there can still be. But in some communes, there are departures to Syria and returns. Why aren't they in the plan? It is the question of the territorial limit of your plan that poses a problem. Radicalism is not limited to certain communes. Minister, what financial and human resources do you intend to implement as part of this project? Will you give the same means to the police areas of the Brussels Region to be able to recruit police officers, as those granted to the city of Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u45	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we read in the press what seemed to be the government's plan to combat radicalism and terrorism in the Canal area. Several things seem to be interesting but also ask a whole series of questions. Minister, do you first confirm that this is the government's plan? Could you give us some details on the strategy and objectives to be achieved? There is also a right to question the government's overall strategy. Indeed, the centre of Brussels is not the only area affected by problems of radicalism. As we know, other areas, such as Antwerp and Charleroi, also face difficulties. So what is the government's overall plan for terrorism and radicalism? I also note that some of the measures announced two months ago are not being implemented. As you answered yesterday, the dynamic database is still in limbo. The 400 million euros to fight terrorism are still in limbo. However, we will need additional resources. We are talking about 15 million just for the treatment of 218 police officers, just for the Brussels area. What will be the means of this strategy? There is also an evolution of your strategy. Indeed, six months ago, we were told that the burden would be borne primarily by the federal government. Then, the circular of 21 August 2015 specified a link between the federal and the local police. Today, the burden is borne mainly at the local level. What will be the means, the capabilities, the logistics elements, the legal basis that will enable this local level to act effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u46	Minister, for several weeks now, the municipal authorities, the heads of bodies and the cabinet of the Minister of the Interior have been working on a plan to combat radicalisation. This plan, which is part of the 18 measures put forward by the government, aims to support the local authorities and police areas of seven Brussels municipalities and one Flemish municipality, Vilvorde. In the aftermath of the attacks, Molenbeek was the first commune to plead for intense collaboration with the federal government. It is therefore essential that this plan should lead to the strengthening of this collaboration between the Federal State and the municipalities. However, the Regions and the Communities must participate in order to eradicate radicalism in some of our neighbourhoods. Of course, aspects of this plan were published this morning in the press. The matter will be discussed tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. At least that's what was announced. Let's go back to Molenbeek. The municipality, particularly concerned, has drawn up its plan to combat radicalisation. We have taken up a series of important elements in our view, including the strengthening of the police force. Of course, community policing is essential for reaching out to citizens. But the strengthening of the anti-banditist brigade or the fraud crackdown brigade, in all its aspects, is also fundamental. There is a need for a multidisciplinary approach to individuals and places suspected of being linked to radicalism and a focus on prevention. Mr Minister, on the basis of this dynamic between the municipalities and the federal government initiated during the preparation of this plan and which gives more responsibility to the local task forces, how do you see the continued collaboration in the implementation of this plan? I am thinking in particular of periodic meetings and assessments of the functioning of the measures to be taken in the fight against crime, which is essential in relation to the radicalism we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not used to react to leaks and rumours in the press. Tomorrow we present the plan against radicalism to Kern and the government. If the government approves this plan, an official communication will take place tomorrow afternoon. You will then get to know the details of this plan. I do not want to react now to what has appeared in the press and has not yet been validated by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u48	Mr President, the Minister of the Interior, in French, we sometimes talk about "bullying." Who the hell are we laughing at here?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u49	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u50	Mr Ducrame, may I speak? I know you don't like being interrupted. Have the kindness to listen to others! How is that possible? We organize leaks in the press, and then the press found a note from the Minister of the Interior. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been calling for resources for the federal and local police. And what are you doing? I'll tell you. You've cut security budgets. You who have the responsibility for security, you who must carry out an essential fight against radicalism, since the attacks, you accept the reduction of budgets. Since we released $400 million three months ago, the same manhood is no longer evident. When you say that there are problems in some quarters, you are manly, but to go get the money that has been sleeping for three months: nothing! We haven't heard anything in three months. Every minute that passes is essential in the fight against radicalism. Minister of the Interior, take your responsibilities and get wet! Go look for these budgets to ensure that the resources of the federal police and the local police are bailed out! Of course, we will remain vigilant. We will monitor your actions and demand that the resources be given to our police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u51	Mr. Minister of the Interior, this is becoming a habit. Parliament's level of information on terrorism issues is zero and unacceptable. I was questioning the Minister of Justice yesterday. I was questioning you yesterday in the Committee on the Interior, and it was the same thing. We never, ever, have the information that concerns the fight against terrorism. The seriousness of the situation requires as a minimum that we have sufficient information. I'll tell you what's going on. Regarding the measures you promised and the 400 million, not a euro was allocated today, two months later. The dynamic database does not exist two months later. As far as legislation is concerned, nothing happens. As far as the task forces are concerned, I asked you yesterday: nothing has moved in two months, you admitted it yourself. Meanwhile, the people who were dangerous two months ago, who were in nature, who were travelling in Belgium – you gave the figure of 117 people – they are still there, they are still as dangerous and no additional means have been put in place to control them. That's the result!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u52	Mr Minister, on the contrary, constructive meetings have been held between the Interior Office, the Justice Office and local authorities, including heads of corps. The Chief of Staff of the Brussels-West Police Area participated actively and coordinated meetings and contacts with the Federal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u54	Ma'am, I know what I'm talking about! Excuse me, but I'm the mayor of this police zone! I still know the activities of the head of the corps. I repeat: there have been constructive meetings. This plan needs to be considered. He can't be improvised. As a result of all these meetings, tomorrow there will be a small Council of Ministers to address this extremely important issue. I believe that today we can still have the patience to wait for the results of this government before throwing the reproach as you do now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u55	Mr. Secretary, there is a rape trial in which the perpetrator has confessed and the judge has decided to suspend the sentence. That means it's not gonna be on his rap sheet. So the judge spares the killer because he confessed. Moral of the story: men, rape can be done when one subsequently pulls up the pants and shows regret. Many women, many raped women, many experts have actually been stunned by that statement. I know that you can now say that this is an individual case. However, if we look at the figures in Belgium, 44 percent of cases relating to rape are dismissed, 56 percent for lack of evidence, 17 percent because the offender is unknown. If we compare this with other European countries, we are doing badly. Also, this ruling will not encourage women who have been raped to file a complaint. If we are honest, it is a problem of mentality that is at many levels, with police, with justice, with political leaders, with some men and women. Minister, security policy is important. You say that here all the time. We agree with that. Security policy is important for men but certainly for women. Over the past ten years, I have noticed that violence against women has been a policy priority, including at local level in the security plans. In the last three years, however, this has been put back as a priority. It was not put forward as a priority until after the Cologne incidents. Minister Jambon and Secretary of State Sleurs have an action plan against gender-based violence. For the sake of clarity, that is a good plan, but it contains 235 actions. When is there gonna be a sense of urgency? When will we really tackle the problem in reality, including in the case of justice, and change the attitude of the police and the judiciary in a concrete way, but also in the wider society?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u56	Mr De Coninck, first of all, it is clear that I am with you and I suspect, like all the men in Parliament, that 'no' is an answer that should be clear. No is no. Let me be as clear about that as I can. Secondly, as Mr Jambon does not have the habit of reporting about press leaks, I do not have the habit of commenting on judgments. However, I can only observe that the prosecution had applied for 18 months, that the prosecution gave a negative opinion on the suspension and that it immediately appealed. In doing so, those who I have a little under my control have done exactly what could be expected of them and what is stated in the circular 10/2005, in particular give priority to crimes of sexual aggression. Your question about gender-based violence and the plan on it, I would prefer to ask Mr Sleurs, although I support her plan of 10 000 %. The Integrated Security Framework Paper, which I have already discussed with the Prime Ministers and the College of Attorneys-General, makes sexual aggression a top priority and you will probably be even more interested in the formation of the magistrates of the court and of the seat in that area as an absolute priority. That is true, as you have said, especially for men but also for women. I am committed to taking this into account in the reform of criminal law. We are in the process of creating an assessment tool for the penalty. You know that in the 19th century property was considered more important than physical integrity, especially the physical integrity of women. We're reversing the penalty measures. In the new Criminal Code, such crimes will be punished much more severely than they are today. In the meantime, I will, in confidence, await the appeal with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u57	Minister, I hope that your 'yes' to this plan will be a real yes and that we will soon be able to see the real start of that plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the day before yesterday many of us saw the painful reportage in this House about euthanasia in unbearable psychological suffering. According to the family members, this euthanasia has resulted in serious errors, both in the preceding and in the execution itself. It is clear that such a thing causes trauma and raises questions with the next of kin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time today, I would ask you to listen to what is being said here. I honestly think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u60	That in our society euthanasia remains a very sensitive subject, we could read and see very clearly in the media. Both ordinary people, academics and politicians immediately had an opinion, which is a sign that the theme is bad for many and that is also good. In particular, the demand for evaluation of the euthanasia law or the procedures in the euthanasia law sounded loud. In this context, I would personally like to distinguish between the ethical debate, the ethical issue and the procedures. There is no doubt that, even in the face of unbearable psychological suffering, euthanasia remains a right, and that debate has been extended. But we can agree with the fact that we may need to look very closely at the procedures in this regard. Madam Minister, in your majority, however, that is much less clear. I have heard some reluctantly say that if we really have to, we can look at these procedures, while others in the majority are immediately questioning the whole law. In December 2015, we were able to clearly read in an interview with Minister Jambon and Minister Geens in Humo that ethical issues were not discussed during this reign. I don't know how to make all that rhyme with each other. The right to euthanasia in unbearable psychological suffering is beyond us, but I would like to know what the government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about death and suffering, and we are doing our best to respect it. I will therefore confine myself to a number of facts and findings which you yourself have been able to do in the past year and in the past few days. We find that there are doctors who are very humanly involved and very well accompany people in euthanasia and the end of life. There are also doctors who keep patients on the leash for far too long when they ask the question of dying worthy. There are also recent cases in which doctors cannot deal with the power and responsibility assigned to them. Mrs Jiroflée, for the record, our group is not against euthanasia in the event of unbearable, incurable suffering from disease. We do have a number of questions. Laws are made to protect weak patients and to prevent abuse. They don't just serve to protect the doctors. What's the problem? The safety valves of the current euthanasia law do not seem strong enough or do not seem to work. You're talking about procedure. Can we accept that doctors who handle it carelessly are more protected by the euthanasia law than the patients themselves? Is it normal that euthanasia is easier and faster to obtain than some psychiatric treatments? Do we think it is normal that, before euthanasia is applied, there should be no consultation between three doctors and psychiatrists, since advice is not binding? It is not possible for relatives to resort to legal proceedings because the evaluation committee is not acting today. It cannot be that the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee is a judge and party in files and can therefore hardly be put together. Madam Minister, for my group euthanasia is not a question of either for or against ideology. It is a question of a proper legal framework. Death as therapy is irreversible. The bar of medical hopelessness must be set high. This includes an evaluation of the law. Will you instruct the Federal Health Knowledge Centre to evaluate the procedures of the current euthanasia law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u62	Mr President, Minister, nothing is as delicate as a debate on the end of life. We have had to hold these debates a number of times in the hemisphere. We have always focused first on good health care. Then we want to support palliative care and, where necessary, allocate additional resources. However, it is clear to us, ladies and gentlemen, that the euthanasia law obliges no one, but that a patient who suffers unbearably and whose situation is hopeless, can dispose of the way in which he wishes to die. That is clear to us and we will not take a step back. Colleagues, everyone, without distinction in terms of grade or status, is entitled to good health care. Everyone has the right to palliative care. Euthanasia must be an opportunity for everyone. Our group is against palliative sedation, but our group is not blind. Of course we want to evaluate. Of course, a law must not only be well-made, but can also be applied properly in practice. If there is to be a new report from the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee, we must of course take this opportunity to evaluate the law. It is clear to us, Mr Van Hoof. Open Vld will not look in one direction and not just look at the procedure. We will also listen to the concerns on the ground. Are there any other questions? How do we deal with people who are no longer willing? Do we deny them the right to euthanasia? We must discuss and evaluate this together. Madam Secretary, my question is quite clear. When is the report of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee expected so that we can get to work? Are there sufficient resources available in practice to detect and undo undeontological or unprofessional actions by doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I have seen the report in which family members testify about the way euthanasia was carried out in a particular case. This broadcast has rightly provoked a debate on the way that euthanasia was carried out and on the legal framework for euthanasia. I will not comment on the case myself. By the way, a complaint was lodged with the court. In the reportage it is said that the doctor acted very casually, not to say amateurishly. If the study showed that this was indeed the case, this would be unacceptable and unacceptable to a doctor. Such cases can be countered. There are procedures for this. Where the doctor has not acted deontologically, disciplinary action may be taken by the Order of Doctors. If the doctor has not acted with caution and foresight, there is a procedure through the Civil Code. In that respect, therefore, we are armed. However, we must distinguish between, on the one hand, the application of euthanasia legislation and, on the other hand, other legislation on the rules on the careful and deontological behaviour of doctors. That's two different things. It is, of course, brief to question, as it were, the whole euthanasia legislation because of one unfortunate incident. The euthanasia law deals with a very important and delicate issue. The law indeed provides for a biannual audit report by the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee. That report can be discussed in greater detail here in the Chamber or in the Senate. During that discussion, it is possible to examine what is going wrong. The Chamber can ask for that meeting itself. Mrs. Van Hoof, you're asking me to ask the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care. However, the Chamber has a representative in the Knowledge Centre and can also ask the Knowledge Centre for research. I myself have a small injunction right to ask for investigations. However, when it comes to a matter which concerns the Chamber and which has to give rise to a public debate, it is your right to ask for an inquiry through the representative of the Chamber. The debate is going very wide. I'm already a member of this group, calling for entanglements. I also hear requests for enlargements. The only thing I ask when the debate will take place is that the participants do not know in advance where they will land at the end of the debate. The debate must be conducted with an open vision and an open attitude towards euthanasia legislation, which has been very difficult to achieve. This must be in the interests of the patients who know that they will die and who indicate that it is enough for them, that suffering is enough for them. Mrs Van Hoof, in such cases, a competent doctor or a team of competent doctors, as required by the law, must act in honour and conscience. We can't throw the baby out here with the bathwater.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u64	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you agree with us that now is not the time to question the whole euthanasia law and re-examine the whole debate. I'll write that down. I hope that your partners in the current government will agree that we will not do so. For the rest, I look forward to the initiatives that will be taken in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u65	Madam Secretary, your answer is not entirely clear to me. We want an evaluation of the euthanasia law, but we will not question it in advance. I think it's normal for laws to be reviewed from time to time. I will ensure that the question will be asked in committee. After all, we have the right of insertion, we can apply for research at the KCE. We will certainly do so. You're ignoring a number of facts. For example, there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court which says that opinions should be binding when seeking advice on euthanasia. There is also the fact that 65 experts, doctors, have stated that psychological suffering should be removed from the euthanasia law. We do not say that, but we do believe that the law can be evaluated on this basis. There is also the fact that the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee has only referred one case to the public prosecutor, only after a broadcast by Australian television. It is therefore not correct simply to ask the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee to carry out an evaluation. She's never done that in the past. She has limited herself to counting euthanasia cases. She has never made recommendations to improve the law. We regret that. We don't want to rush people into death. However, the current euthanasia law does not give us any guarantees in this respect. In short, we are asking for an evaluation of the current euthanasia law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u66	Madam Minister, our group is putting its heels in the sand as far as the right to self-determination is concerned. However, Mr Van Hoof, our group is not putting its head in the sand with regard to the right to self-determination. We will evaluate all aspects of the law. We want to listen to all the problems that arise on the ground. We must, of course, evaluate the procedure and look at the accompanying legislation, but we must also dare to listen to those who are being deprived of the right to self-determination today. We also want to enter into this conversation, and certainly not close our eyes to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first month of 2016 is already over and so is the first month of the tax shift. Everyone's got their paycheck and should see that there's a little bit more on his account than last month. For the lowest wages, that's even a bigger piece than for higher wages. The tax shift is not only a shift of tax, away from labour to less growth-distorting elements, but is also, above all, a reduction in taxes thanks to spending savings. This reduction in taxes on labour applies not only to the employee but also to the employer. More specifically, when self-employed people recruit a first new employee, there is even a complete exemption from the basic patronial burden on the employee's salary, all of this of course to save our jobs and to create private jobs. That effect seems to be there today. I have the press release from social secretary SD Worx with me. This explains the fact that during the month of January it was really overwhelmed by entrepreneurs who are considering recruiting a first employee thanks to the new system. SD Worx estimates after one month that in January 2016 no less than twice as many first recruitments took place than in January last year. Colleagues, the previous government may have realized a tax avalanche, but this government is firmly opting for a job avalanche. Minister, these are the figures for SD Worx, just a single social secretariat. I'm sure you have a much broader perspective. I ask you to take stock of one month's tax shift. What is the balance sheet, what is the impact of the first month on job creation and business creation? How many jobs were created last month?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u68	Mr Dedecker, one month is fast, but it is unmistakable. You have referred to numbers of SD Worx. We can also refer to the sharp increase in the number of start-ups as entrepreneurs or the decrease in the number of bankruptcies. The positive effects of the tax shift are gradually becoming clearly visible and will only increase. After all, the tax shift is not a one-liner, it is not a wild idea that is being shaken up for a moment, but a well-thought-out strategy of shifting burdens away from labour. The aim is twofold, as I have stressed several times in our sitting: to reduce the cost of work and to increase the attractiveness of work. Those Siamese twins are the backbone of the tax shift and we will be able to measure its success. You have already indicated that its initial effects are visible. The tax shift strengthens economic support and provides more jobs. That is, of course, the configuration that we need to sustain the financing of our welfare state in the long term, including health care and pensions. Without tax shift, without the operations we're doing right now, it's gonna be a lot harder. The tax shift is a key element in ensuring our socio-economic situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u69	Mr Minister, there is indeed not only an effect on job creation but also on start-ups, thank you for illustrating that. It is clear that the policy of saving expenditure and reducing taxes is working. In this way we are finally getting out of the negative spiral that we have been in over the past few years. The new jobs not only provide an extra or higher income for so many people and families. They also mean that we have to pay benefits to so many fewer unemployed people and that former unemployed people are now making money to the government, money to keep our pensions affordable and money to finance further cuts in the burden. We can only get ahead of ourselves. The only ones less enthusiastic are the benefit institutions of ACV and ADVV, which now have to save by receiving less administrative fees for the unemployed. But we can only be very satisfied with more jobs and more entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last weekend we read in the press that the Minister of Finance has far-reaching proposals for corporate tax reform. European legislation is in full swing. The aim is to ensure that taxation is transparent and fair. We want to put each country on the same competitive basis in terms of taxation, and we are going against the erosion of the tax base and the shifting of profits, because certain multinationals are not paying taxes anywhere anymore. Our system of excess profit rulings comes under pressure. I have no problem whatsoever with the fact that in the coming years we will have to consider the substance of taxation and see how we can remain competitive, but, Minister, you will be announcing this reform a few weeks after the adoption of the second tax shift. After the eight- or nine-billion-dollar tax shift, it has been said that it is the biggest reform since 1963, you are now coming up with a reform of corporation tax, with very questionable arguments. In the future, for example, there would be two types of tariffs. You're just saying you're gonna cancel the deduction. You do not really know what the finality of this reform is. Your proposal has also been made without consultation with the majority groups in Parliament or with the government. Those are cases where I have big questions. I have two specific questions. We are still facing difficult budgetary times. When we discussed the first tax shift, we had a discussion about its financing. Big questions were asked at the time. The National Bank and the Planning Bureau have said that it would be necessary to clean up six to seven billion in order to finance both the tax shift and the budget balance in 2018. There are therefore still very heavy efforts to be made. You also said that this reform must now be carried out in the context of budgetary control. The budgetary control that is coming is a budgetary control in which we will have to make very hard efforts, because I read this on the Internet today, according to the European Commission, the deficit in 2015 is not 2.7 %, but 2.9 %. So we're down 1.6 billion. Minister, you have explained your proposal in detail in the press. In the next few weeks, we will have a budget check and you will announce a new tax shift that will cost EUR 3.5 billion. That's never been mentioned. How will you finance it? If you make promises, you have to be credible. I call for a serious approach to fiscal and budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u71	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my ambition is not to get applause from the opposition here today. I was elected to this Chamber together with colleague Van Rompuy in 1985. For the rest, however, there are considerable differences between us. He is more sceptical about the approach to fiscal policy. Mr. Secretary, I'm more voluntarist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u72	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u73	Possibilism, indeed. Mr Calvo, perhaps we could consider applauding for one and the other. You've done that in the past. Mr Minister, I would like to return to the government's project, the one we endorsed by the majority. The bottom line is to look at how we can create economic growth. How can we boost that growth? Mr Dedecker's question was about one component, how can we encourage people who work. My question is about the other component, how can we encourage people who work. Are our companies competitive, are they competitive? Can we buy tie against heavy competition abroad? I would like to refer briefly to the Netherlands where a number of far-reaching reforms have been carried out. I note that economic growth there today is more than 2%. Minister of Finance, that is where we must take our country. This will, of course, also greatly facilitate the budgetary debate at that time. You have put forward a proposal to reform corporate taxation. You have spoken to my heart. You have proposed that this rate, which still stands at 34% in our country, should be substantially reduced among the highest rates in the European Union. Mr Van Rompuy, we also know that the current system of corporation tax is rather complex and, in fact, a little unfair. There is a rate of 34% but who still pays it? There are all kinds of exceptions which mean that the impression is that the big companies, the multinationals, can somehow escape all of them and that our small and medium-sized enterprises must torment all of them. On what basis is corporate tax reform taking place? If you lower the rate, you have our support. If you simplify the case, too. I'd also like to link an employment ambition to it. The rate must not be reduced without conditions. For example, a reduction in the rate may depend on the mass of wages. Companies that effectively maintain or expand their pay mass ensure a combination of taxation and job creation. [[Tumult]] There's applause from the opposition anyway. Mr. Secretary, I take it you're not going to be ice cream in the middle of the night. I don't know you like that. What is the timing of this reform? Will you put it on the table at the forthcoming budgetary control? After all, it is important to move forward quickly in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u74	If Mr Dewael and Mr Van Rompuy take the floor, everyone will be listening. It wasn't different now either. The government agreement states that different principles must be respected in the field of tax reform. I quote the first principle: "Promoting growth, encouraging work, creating added value." A few other principles will be discussed a little further. I quote: "Stabilisation and legal certainty', "Simplification and transparency'. In order to assess the current situation, we must, of course, first look at the past. In the past, some mechanisms were created, the excess profit ruling being a very clear exponent, aimed at reducing the tax burden on the basic structure. One can describe that in different ways, but that was the baseline. The reality today is that the European Commission says that this is no longer possible. We are therefore left with the basic fact that the basis of the tax structure of companies is not competitive, or at least not sufficiently competitive, because otherwise we would not have had to do these interventions in the past. That's an irrefutable logic. There is therefore a need to intervene, Mr Van Rompuy, of course, with consideration, and not even a little, for the budgetary environment. However, I would like to point out immediately that the determination of the lack of fiscal competitiveness is an ipso facto budgetary determination. If one is not sufficiently competitive for tax purposes, one will by definition have fewer investments, certainly foreign but also domestic, less economic activity and fewer jobs. And then we are talking very emphatically, regardless of the job aspect in se, about a budgetary problem. The determination of a lack of fiscal competitiveness at company level is in itself a budgetary determination and should therefore be addressed at the time when the determination is made. This can't possibly stay for months or years. Otherwise, just what you want to avoid, if I have understood you correctly, we will create a huge budgetary problem. I did put that piste on the table. That's not a gratuitous balloon, it's not a gratuitous idea, but I think it's a necessity today. Mr Dewael has also said that this is very important: simplification, transparency and certainly a level playing field for SMEs, which are still the backbone of our economy. I think that the time for certain groups of companies to benefit from certain benefits is over. We need to go fiscally to a level playing field that is sufficiently competitive in the European context. It is therefore my job, as Minister of Finance, to make proposals in this area, not in the future, but here and now, and also to present these proposals as proposals. I have just heard Mr Dewael say things that are more than worth considering. I don't have a fixed pattern in the sense of: so and so. On the contrary, I think I've given you some thinking slopes. Everyone who knows me knows that I very much like to debate these ideas and also have the budgetary consequences calculated. In fact, these calculations are in full swing at the moment. I hope that the two speakers will agree with me today that we have a problem with company taxation and that we must do something about it in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u75	Minister, I agree with your conclusion. I also started to say earlier that the disappearance of the system of excess profit rulings creates a problem. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, you yourself said that the Belgian niche policy to give tax advantages to certain multinationals was declared dead by the European Commission. The question is what we are putting in place. You propose to retain the tax rate of 33 % with deductions or to grant a rate of 20 % without deductions. Today I read a great tax specialist who said that this will make the system much more complicated, because companies will then be able to choose between one tax system or another. That specialist, Alex Haelterman, proposes not to start with that, but to keep it simple. You say that you have thought very carefully about the reform of corporate taxation, but the way in which this reform is launched, loosely from the wrist, in the press, lacks starkness. I also have major questions about the budgetary implications of this reform. You believe in some kind of payback effect. However, the budget will be burdened with EUR 3.5 billion in the following years, precisely at the time of discussions on the financing of the tax shift. Moreover, we must achieve a budget balance in 2018. We now have a deficit of EUR 11 billion, and that has to be reduced to zero. An additional mortgage of 3.2 billion, hoping for the payback effects... you may laugh at that, Minister, but that raises questions for me. Thirty years ago I started here in Parliament, together with Mr Dewael. We have never really got rid of the public debt, the budget deficits. We are now heading in a direction... (Rumur on the N-VA banks) Yes, indeed, the N-VA has sold major theories about this before the elections, but at the moment the deficit is higher than in 2013! In 2013, the deficit was 2.6 %. [[Applause on the opposition benches]] I do not welcome the opposition's applause, because that is not what I am concerned about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u76	Mr Van Rompuy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u77	As chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Budget, it is my duty to monitor the seriousness of the tax shift II, which, according to the National Bank and the Planning Bureau, is not financially viable. The balance in the budget must be achieved. Now we have a new proposal that does not really fit in budgetary terms, certainly not in the budget control in March, where we will have all the trouble in the world to achieve the stated objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u78	Mr Van Rompuy, you have used up your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u79	Mr President, I would like to make this quite clear here, because this is a very important matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u80	Mr President, Minister, both Mr Van Rompuy and I joined the Chamber in 1985, and I have seen a number of developments since then. The fact that the socialists today, in 2016, applaud for budgetary orthodoxy, is new. I think that's a lot of evolution since 1985...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u82	Mrs. Temmerman, you shouldn't get mad when I say things that hurt you. I've said that before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u83	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u84	Mrs Temmerman, I have only referred to certain statements made by socialists, that budget deficits come naturally and therefore go away on their own. That was once said here in Parliament by a Minister for the Budget. In other words, I say that there is an evolution in the matter, let us all pursue this budgetary orthodoxy, but let me say quite clearly. Minister, you have raised two important points. Firstly, on income and fiscal competitiveness. The system for companies, as in the case of personal taxation, is no longer transparent, incorrect and unfair. I look again at the left when I say that mainly large companies today, with a number of cutting edge technologies, can benefit from which SMEs are deprived. We must no longer accept it, we must rectify it. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, don't get so nervous. If everyone lets everyone finish, we could understand each other. If this reform leads to such anomalies being eliminated, I am firmly convinced that public revenue will increase. Secondly, in order to achieve a balanced budget, expenditure must also be controlled, let us be clear. Budgetary control is the time to make the bill. In the past, and I am talking about the ministers of my group, we have always kept to the envelopes and expenditures that were allocated to us. If everyone sweeps in front of their own doors, the street is clean. That is a clear warning which I would like to give with a view to budgetary control. However, unlike Mr Van Rompuy, I am convinced that we can achieve an ambitious reform of corporate taxation without any additional gaps in the budget, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u86	Mr Secretary of State, today I saw figures in De Tijd on targeted controls in the fight against social dumping. Social dumping is a perverse waste of the system of posting, a system in which workers are employed in other countries of the European Union. In our country too, we see so many workers from southern Europe and even more from Eastern Europe pouring into our labour market. This is an important file. In 2014, there were 460 000 declarations of workers who came to work but did not pay social security contributions here. That means a doubling of the figures over five years. That leads to job loss. Thousands of jobs have been lost, in construction, in transport, and in other sectors. The numbers in the paper are hallucinating. Half of the companies checked were found to be out of order. A third of the employees checked were not in order. However, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to give you a compliment, because the government and you, as the competent Secretary of State, are not hiding behind good intentions, but are really trying to tackle the problems. You're bringing the sectors to the table. You will provide concrete action plans in consultation, which will also deliver results. You're doing targeted checks. The fight against social fraud generated EUR 180 million in 2015, 30% more than the year before. Unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State, mop with the tap open. After all, as long as European legislation is not adapted to today's Europe, there is nothing you can do about it. We have been waiting months for a note from the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Thyssen, who should provide us with a number of levers to tackle the problem on the ground. I come to my specific questions, Mr Secretary of State. Are you prepared to press Mrs Thyssen for a well-founded plan that contains concrete solutions in the very short term? Are you prepared to press for a European action plan against social fraud worthy of its name?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u87	Mr Raskin, the figures are solid, but I would like to nuance them. These controls are targeted in the context of the action plan against social dumping. They are therefore not ordinary inspections, but very targeted controls. Data mining and data matching have increased the chances of getting caught. The results are indeed staggering. Social dumping is a major problem. The action plans we have drawn up with the trade unions and the employers contain a number of elements: a national section - we have to sweep ahead, a Benelux component and a European component. The European part has the same thing repeatedly, namely that we will consult with Mrs Thyssen and that we urge Mrs Thyssen to address a number of issues at European level as well. For the sake of clarity, I am in favour of the free movement of goods and services in Europe. However, I would like to say very clearly to Mrs Thyssen that, if we want to go further and achieve greater labour mobility, this must be accompanied by means to be able to control better. That is a very clear message, including to Europe. As in the case of asylum and migration, a number of adjustments are needed in the case of social dumping. If we cannot control and continue to carry on with fraud and social dumping, then there is a major problem. I am going to the Netherlands next week for a speech under the Dutch Presidency of the EU. I'm going to France and Germany. I'm looking for allies in Europe. I believe that other countries, such as Austria, will also be on the verge of taking action and asking Mrs Thyssen to amend European social legislation. There are problems with PO Box companies. It is high time that Europe took action. I also call on organisations such as the European trade unions and employers' federation to work together on this and to convince Europe that action is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u88	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. Let us be clear: we are fighting the same battle. I am pleased to hear that you would like to urge Mrs Thyssen to present this important note. I'm glad you're looking for allies in the Benelux plus, as you mentioned in the committee. The file is important, because companies are being badly competed and are, as it were, obliged to participate in social dumping, they want to keep their heads above water. The issue undermines social security and, as has been said, the support for the European Union, which is under very heavy pressure today, is further crumbling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u89	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, a few days ago, following an incident at the Coxide pool, you were taking an administrative measure to place a refugee candidate in a closed centre. He was suspected of being the author of touchings on a minor of age. Yesterday, the newspaper Vers l'Avenir published that the Chamber of the Council of Furnes had decided on Tuesday that the asylum seeker should be released and, therefore, could no longer be held in a closed centre. Mr Secretary of State, what about this investigation? Is it over? If so, what about the facts? Finally, I am surprised that a judicial body, not least, is involved in an administrative measure. Is this a normal practice in this kind of litigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u90	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to deviate slightly from my question because it has been overtaken by current events. I can summarize my question in the following way. Can you explain a little more about your approach to asylum seekers who are suspected of a crime? That approach is, after all, completely unclear today. I'll give you three illustrations. First of all, the rape case in Ostend. Horrible. The perpetrators must be tried and punished as soon as possible. They may also be expelled, but I would like to point out that the decision to expel is not with you, but with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, who is still a neutral body. So be careful with your communication in the media that you will tell those involved. That's not your decision to make. Second, the pool incident in Koksijde. The parquet did its job there. Nevertheless, although the court had decided not to lock him up or hold him, you decided to lock him up in a closed asylum centre. You have used your discretion when an asylum seeker harms public order, although the court did not intervene in the case in question. The incident turned out to be based on loose sand afterwards. I would therefore ask you, in the interests of the separation of powers in our country, to pay attention to the use of your discretionary powers. That discretionary power was used in the past to lock up génocidaires. Pre-reporting is something else. I have put a number of questions to you. In how many cases have you used your discretion since you became Secretary of State? How long have those involved been locked up on average? What happened to them every time they got out? A third illustration is a fight early January 2016 in the asylum centre of Broechem. In that file, too, you stated in the press that you would deport the asylum seekers concerned. First of all, that's not your jurisdiction. Secondly, what actually happened? The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless had to grant asylum status to at least one of them. After all, what you never tell us is that, if you use your discretionary powers, the asylum dossier in question will be on top of the pile. So you have announced with great throm that you will tell those involved. In reality, you had to grant asylum status. Mr President, I will conclude. Mr Secretary of State, I see a lot of tough communication in you, but also a lot of arbitrariness, insufficient legal certainty and excess of powers, at least in the field of communication. I would therefore like an answer from you to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u91	Mr Carcaci and Mr De Vriendt, I would like to point out from the outset that the Aliens Act, in its Article 54(2), provides that the Secretary of State may make an asylum seeker available to the government, as part of a protective measure, when he deems it necessary for the maintenance of public order and the security of the country. Firstly, I would like to point out that Article 54 (2) of the Foreigner's Act provides that the Secretary of State may place an asylum seeker at the disposal of the Government if he considers it necessary to maintain public policy or the security of the country. That is not a sanction, it is an administrative safeguard measure. I would like to point out that my predecessors also used that procedure in the same circumstances, i.e. without an effective conviction. I would also like to stress that the current situation, in particular an exceptionally large number of asylum seekers receiving reception, is an extraordinary circumstance. More than 35 000 people are currently in an asylum centre. It is crucial that any irregularity should be dealt with strictly in this situation. I suspect we are in agreement on that. Finally, I should also like to point out that I do not think that the current rules on penalties provided for in the Reception Act have been sufficiently adapted. In the current Reception Act of 2007, the most severe sanction is temporary exclusion from a centre for a maximum duration of one month. I do not think that is enough as a sanction. That is why I instructed Fedasil to amend the sanction rules. I will come to Parliament with that. I also see the need to work on the group itself. That is why Fedasil will start a pilot project in a few weeks with Afghan role models that want to have an impact on the many thousands of Afghan young people in our reception centres. Since my call, about a dozen candidates have presented themselves. I expect a great deal of that, ladies and gentlemen. I also spoke to the Afghan ambassador about this. In this file, on the basis of the police report delivered to my administration, which qualified the fact as sexual assault against a minor, I considered that the measure was necessary in order to protect public order. In addition, a few days later, two additional PVs were sent to my administration about the facts in that pool, on that afternoon. I cannot give you any further information on the state of play in the judicial investigation. I read online today that the case is running at the parquet. Nothing's been dropped yet, but the court would like to finish the file by the end of the week. I've read that, but of course that's a matter for the court. The appeal procedure is contained in Article 71 of the Foreigner's Act. The article provides that the alien who is the subject of a measure of deprivation of liberty may appeal against that measure by submitting an application to the chamber of the correctional court of his place of residence in the realm or the place where he was found. The person concerned lodged an appeal against his deprivation of liberty with the Chamber of the Council of Furnes. It's the normal procedure. The Office of Foreigners did not appeal and therefore released the person concerned. Mr De Vriendt, I understand why you are asking these questions. Among all governments, even under the purple green in the 2000s, detentions took place without conviction. It is an administrative and protective measure. I cannot repeat enough that not all asylum seekers are criminals. The vast majority of them behave very neatly and as they should. I see a lot of mayors of municipalities with asylum centres here who can confirm that. It is about a small group that sometimes behaves badly and even, as we have seen today in Ostend, behaves very badly. It is important to be strict but fair in this respect. We do so within the legal possibilities and, of course, with respect for the separation of powers. It is fully respected in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I pointed out in my question that this was an administrative measure. My concern was whether the separation of powers between the executive and the judiciary had been respected. You just said that this is the normal procedure. I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u93	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. I have three brief comments to make. Those who commit a crime must be severely punished, but for that we have, first and foremost, criminal law and not migration law. That is a first point. Secondly, you bring news here. You announce that you will come to Parliament with an extension of your discretionary power to have people imprisoned for more than 30 days. Right now, the term is 30 days. You want to extend it. However, I would also like you to define your discretionary powers and the conditions under which you can use them better and more strictly. I believe that you apply them excessively or excessively in a number of examples I have listed. Third, the pool incident in Koksijde. Mr Secretary of State, a protective measure, all well and good. However, using your Twitter profile to spout inflammatory language and feed the hotshots in the media even more by saying that if Justice doesn't do its job, then you will do it and that asylum seekers have to keep their cops at home... that's all right. Anyone committing a crime must be severely punished, Mr Secretary of State. But I also advocate caution and respect for the separation of powers in our country. I believe that this is basic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u94	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry, Maya Detiège. The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (821/5) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (821/5) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteurs were Mr Senesael and Mrs Jiroflée; they referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be short and will be supplemented by Mrs Anne Dedry. We are in a context of rejection but we still hope to change your mind. Why have this resolution been tabled and submitted for discussion? Of those over the age of 75, 12 per cent are in actual undernutrition. This does not mean that they have an unbalanced diet but that they are completely lacking in food. In addition, 45% are at risk of undernutrition, either in their homes or in hospitals. In the nursing home, this is the same situation, but I will not talk about it here because these skills have been regionalized. The situation is serious! In 2011, a lot of work was done in parliament, which involved the mobilization of nurses and geriatricians, funding and pilot projects that were set up on a voluntary basis. They are not systematically organised through good practice. What minimum good practices should be adopted? It should be noted, for example, through their general practitioner, that weight loss occurs in people over 75 years of age. The composition of their meals should be changed to increase their appetite, for example, to make small, repeated meals. It is also a focus on serious situations, such as mourning, social isolation, hospitalization and return home. There may be an increase in falls, fractures, longer illnesses with complications, loss of muscle strength, loss of autonomy and placement of these people. If attention had been paid to their diet, including their protein intakes, these people would be at home and healthy. Mr President, although some jurisdictions are shared between the federal government, the Regions and the Communities, the federal level has to do something about its health skills. This rejection, this refusal to discuss or improve the proposed text is, for us, inexplicable and dangerous This means that this is not a health policy concern. The geriatricians have reacted quite vividly, saying that this reality exists and that it also affects other patients in oncology or with chronic diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u96	Mr President, I am glad that Minister De Block is still here. My colleague, Mr Gerkens, has just said that Mrs De Block, when she was a Member of Parliament in 2011, considered this subject to be particularly important. A resolution on this matter was signed by the Commission at the time. That is why I am all the more surprised at the progress of the discussions in committee. Several members of the majority, such as Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Van Hoof, Mr Thiéry, Mrs Hufkens and Mrs Muylle, have said that they consider this issue very important and that they want to work on it. I am therefore very disappointed with the way in which the discussion has ended. If anything can be improved on a text, then amendments can be tabled. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have not done so. You just voted our proposal out. I don't think that's a proper way of working. Mr President, the current government says it is in favour of efficiency gains. The government claims to be opposed to overconsumption. Several members of the majority say explicitly that savings are still possible in social security. Well, in committee, I explained very clearly and demonstrated that if we were to apply the British directive to patients with malnutrition, we could save EUR 65 million. That's not nothing, is it? However, that also apparently did not count as an argument. So that's a missed opportunity. That is why I would like to ask that this proposal be re-examined in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u97	I see neither the other author nor the rapporteurs asking to speak. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u98	No, Madam Secretary, this is covered by Rule 88. This is a rejection proposal. We are going to adhere strictly to the Rules of Procedure. No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1585/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1585/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law on the simplification of the procedure for the transfer of remuneration". The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u102	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter De Roover, Laurette Onkelinx, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten, Dirk Van Mechelen, Meryame Kitrir, Catherine Fonck, Jean-Marc Nollet. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1616/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1616/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u106	The mandate of the members of the P Committee expired on 2 February 2016. A call for nomination was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 8 January 2016 for the appointment of four working members (including a Vice-President), four first alternates and four second alternates of the P Committee. The applications were to be submitted by 23 January 2016. The terms of office of the members of Committee P expired on February 2, 2016. A call for candidates for the appointment of four effective members (including one vice-president), four first alternates and four second alternates of the P Committee was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 8 January 2016. Applications were to be submitted by 23 January 2016 at the latest. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Candidate Vice-President: French-speaking candidate: Mr Guy Cumps, Vice-President of the Committee P Candidate Vice-Chair: Francophone candidate: Mr Guy Cumps, Vice-Chairman of the P Committee Candidate working member: Dutch-speaking candidates: - Mr Herman Daens, deputy attorney-general at the Ghent Appeals Court; working member of the Committee P - Heer Frank Franceus, Director van de Dienst Enquêtes van het Vast Comité I Mrs Diane Reynders, working member of the Committee P - mevrouw Dominique Reyniers, afdelingsprocureur te Turnhout - Mr Jack Vissers, Chief of Police; Chief Constable PZ Kastze (Campenhout-Steenokkerzeel-Zemst) French-speaking candidate: Mr Antonio Caci, Adviser at the Institute Emile Vandervelde; Deputy member of the P Committee Effective member candidates: Dutch-speaking applicants: - Mr Herman Daens, Deputy Attorney General of the Ghent Court of Appeal; effective member of the P Committee - Mr Frank Franceus, Director of the Investigation Department of the R Committee - Ms Diane Reynders, effective member of the P Committee - Ms Dominique Reyniers, divisional prosecutor in Turnhout - M. Jack Vissers, commissaire de police en chef; chef de corps de la ZP Kastze (Campenhout-Steenokkerzeel-Zemst) French-speaking candidate: Mr Antonio Caci, Adviser to the Emile Vandervelde Institute; alternate member of the P Committee Candidates working member and first or second alternate : Dutch-speaking candidates: - Mrs. Régine Claeys, Judge in the Dutch family court in Brussels - Mr Peter De Smet, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent; Deputy member of the Committee P - Mr Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President at the Court of First Instance of East Flanders; Member of the Supreme Court of Justice Franstalige kandidaat: Mr Thibaut Vandamme, Deputy Prosecutor des Konings (Luxembourg District) Candidates who are effective members and first or second alternate members: Dutch-speaking applicants: - Ms Régine Claeys, judge of the Dutch-speaking court of the Brussels family - Mr. Peter De Smet, General Counsel at the Ghent Court of Appeal; alternate member of the P Committee - Mr. Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders; member of the Higher Council of Justice French-speaking candidate: Mr. Thibaut Vandamme, Deputy Prosecutor of the King (district of Luxembourg) Candidate First Deputy Vice-President: French-speaking candidate: Mr Laurent Van Doren, Chief Constable of the PZ Orne-Thyle; Member of the Subcommittee on Judicial Police on the Standing Committee of the Local Police First alternate candidate of the Vice-President: French-speaking candidate: Mr Laurent Van Doren, Chief of Staff of the ZP Orne-Thyle; member of the Subcommittee on Judicial Police to the Standing Committee on Local Police Candidates first alternate: Dutch-speaking candidate: Mr Frank Schuermans, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent; Deputy member of the Professional Body on Safety Authorisations, Safety Certificates and Safety Advice; Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information French-speaking candidate: Ms Morgane Lobjois, Head of Office of the Mayor of the City of Brussels; President of the Brussels-Capital Police Zone First alternate candidates: Dutch-speaking candidate: Mr Frank Schuermans, Advocate General of the Ghent Court of Appeal, alternate member of the Board of Appeal on clearances, certificates and security opinions; member of the Police Information Review Body French-speaking candidate: Morgane Lobjois, Chief of Staff of the Townmaster of the City of Brussels; President of the Brussels-Capital Ixelles Police Area Candidates second alternate: French-speaking candidate: Ms Déborah Dewulf, Adviser to the Walloon Prime Minister's Office Second alternate candidates: French-speaking candidate: Deborah Dewulf, Advisor to Minister-President Wallon's Office Candidates first or second alternates: Dutch-speaking candidate: Mr Filip Jodts, District Attorney at the Court of First Instance West Flanders, Veurne Division French-speaking candidates: - Mr Olivier Mazy, second alternate member of the P Committee; attorney at the P Committee - Mr Vincent Stragier, Security Advisor to the Prime Minister; Secretary of the National Security Council First or second alternate candidates: Dutch-speaking candidate: Mr Filiep Jodts, Divisional Prosecutor at the West Flanders Court of First Instance, Furnes Section Francophone applicants: - Mr Olivier Mazy, second alternate member of the P Committee; - Mr. Vincent Stragier, Security Adviser to the Prime Minister; Secretary to the National Security Council In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 February 2016, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be delivered to the political groups and the candidates will be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 February 2016 the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be transmitted to the political groups and the follow-up committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold the hearing of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u107	At the request of the authors, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr Hans Bonte, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mr Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Alain Top and Mr Peter Vanvelthoven) with a view to extending the use of the data obtained in the context of the automatic exchange of information, No. 1589/1, refer to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the bill to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism (MM. Dirk Van der Maelen and Hans Bonte, Meyrem Almaci and MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Frédéric Daerden, Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Ahmed Laaouej, Alain Top and Peter Vanvelthoven) expanding the use of data obtained in the context of automatic exchange of information, n° 1589/1. The bill was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u108	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; these proposals shall be forwarded to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 February 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees for an effective and democratic fight against terrorism (Doc. 1624/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u109	- Ms Catherine Fonck's bill amending the Royal Decree of 15 July 2011 awarding public procurement classic sectors in order to prevent social dumping (No. 1627/1); - the legislative proposal by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet to introduce social, ethical and environmental clauses in public procurement and to promote the circular economy (No. 1630/01).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u110	- the draft law of Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Raoul Hedebouw amending the law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (No. 1629/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u111	- Mrs Sonja Becq's draft law amending the Code of Justice with regard to the legal internship (No. 1632/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u112	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 February 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees for an effective and democratic fight against terrorism (No 1624/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u113	- Mrs Catherine Fonck's proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 15 July 2011 on the award of public contracts in traditional sectors with a view to combating social dumping (No 1627/1); - the bill by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Messrs. Kristof Calvo and Gilles Vanden Burre, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, aiming at the inclusion of environmental, social and ethical clauses in public procurement and the promotion of the circular economy (No 1630/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u114	- the bill of Messrs. Marco Van Hees and Raoul Hedebouw amending the Organization Act for the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis of 18 July 1991 (No. 1629/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u115	- Mrs Sonja Becq's bill amending the Judicial Code with regard to judicial training (No. 1632/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u116	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u117	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 1632/1. It's about the legal interns. As the time limit for the legal internship expires in March and there are no open places, the persons concerned would fall without appointment. We are asking for an extension of one deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency is being asked. I also refer to Mr Verherstraeten's speech at the Conference of Presidents, where the point was discussed. I suggest that we take a stand on this and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u119	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 26 January 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 26 January 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 096/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. André Frédéric; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Renate Hufkens, Ms. Nathalie Muylle and Mr. Yoleen Van Camp and Mr. Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 096/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr André Frédéric; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens, Mr Nathalie Muylle and Mr Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u120	Mr President, I thank you for allowing everyone to listen to the arguments we have put forward in the Committee on Public Health on an extremely important issue, namely the fight against cancer. In 2013, this terrible disease hit 65,487 people in our country. Colleagues, the chance of the calendar is World Cancer Day. I hope that this problem, which concerns us all, will provide a basis for unanimous support, although I know that we are unfortunately in a majority/opposition report. I'm sorry. However, I still have an ultimate hope to convince those who think of this terrible evil. Why did I question the minister? It's not my habit. Besides, I didn't mean to be polemic. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2008 we voted for a national cancer plan with 32 concrete measures. Beyond prevention and treatment, they were interested in research. I was extremely concerned when I heard that hospitals had received letters from the Public Health FPS in early November announcing that, as of January 1st of this year, their research would be completed. As an example, I cited the financial support given to the banks and therapy units for stem cells and cord blood – without wanting to become technical, Mr. President. I filed my inquiry directly in November 2015. I was able to develop it on January 26, and I was partially reassured by the minister. In fact, she first told me that I was making a mistake, that my remarks were wrong and that, given some letters signed by the Health FPS in my possession, it was difficult to maintain my position. Then she told me that this was an administrative error. You will agree with me, an administrative error of several hundred thousand euros, which concerns x full-time units of researchers and, beyond that, life through this fundamental research, is an argument that seemed somewhat short to me. The Minister is committed to amending the health benefit nomenclatures in the coming months to ensure the sustainability of this type of research. I will pay close attention to this, but I believe in good faith that, in the meantime, there will be continued contractual funding for this research. Obviously, all this has settled, because the day before my arrest, the hospitals received a phone call confirming the matter. This extremely important subject must keep us at heart. I want to support the minister in her commitments as well as the government as a whole, because it is essential for our citizens. Therefore, I ask you to support the motion for a recommendation that does not speak out against the morals or commitments that this government has made to continue in the line of previous legislatures to pursue an effective and proactive cancer policy, to set the necessary budget as soon as possible to allow the continuation of pilot projects under the Cancer Plan and to continue to implement the Cancer Plan developed in 2008, to carry out its evaluation and updating if necessary. Mr President, in apologizing for having been very long, I hope I have been able to convince those who had a doubt about the vote to be cast this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u121	Mr President, I align myself with exactly what my colleague has said. I stress that today is World Cancer Day. It seems superfluous to remind the government of the importance of the issue of our National Cancer Plan. There is a need to continue a proactive fight against this disease. Support for this motion of recommendation, particularly today, is highly symbolic. We will vote against the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u122	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u123	Yes 76 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u124	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 26 January 2016. This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 26 January 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 101/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 101/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u125	Mr President, I have questioned Secretary of State Sleurs about the usurping powers. CD&V and N-VA will remember that in 2012-2013 this was an item for which they were themselves requesting parties, in particular to stop spending on those powers transferred to the Länder for a long time and thus to remove them from the federal budget. I have placed the list of federal administration with the so-called phantom powers next to the 2016 budget. Now it turns out that most of these purely usurping powers are all covered by Science Policy, the competence package of Mrs Sleurs. Hence my question to her, well in advance to avoid being blamed on us for being too late, to save a number of millions, if we are still looking for savings for the 2017 budget, by removing that expenditure. The Secretary of State laughed at this and said that this would be for a further state reform. I can only quote Mr Kris Peeters, even at that time with the hat of Flemish Prime Minister, who rightly said that those powers had been transferred for a long time; he said that this was already part of a state reform and that it was only about its implementation. He also said it's under federal loyalty to cancel those expenses. Hence our motion of recommendation, to meet the cries of CD&V and N-VA from 2012-2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u126	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 86 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u127	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on January 27, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 27 January 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 0105/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière, Sevastian Pirlot and Éric Thiébaut; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Gautier Calomne et Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 105/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Éric Thiébaut; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u128	Mr President, we, together with the members of the Socialist Group, have tabled this motion because we were very concerned at the presentation of the Defence Strategic Plan that there should be no line on the duty of memory and the mission of memory to be carried out by the army. On the other hand, we have regular echoes and we have seen the sad state and mismanagement of the Royal Army Museum. We have had many echoes on a work that is being done to distribute – not to use the word "share" – the army's heritage in an unfair manner. I know that in committee, the minister wanted to be reassuring. His remarks were not far from the content of the motion, namely: not decentralizing the Royal Museum of the Army, doing real scientific work there, in collaboration with the local branches, and not regionalizing the memory of the Belgians. Since the minister is in line with the content of the motion, I would be surprised if the majority did not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u129	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u130	Yes 77 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u131	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 821/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 821/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1585/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1585/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1616/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1616/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-04-54-plenair-ip097x.u134	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 18 February 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 18, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a good holiday, if there are any. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 February 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 18 February 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
