ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u1	The Prime Minister will provide an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u2	Mr. Chair, it is an honour for me to get the Prime Minister's answers to questions posed to ministers. These are also very technical issues. I apologise in a way, but for public procurement specialists, these are important subjects. I have no doubt that your answers will be read carefully. Prime Minister, the first question concerns the new European directives on public procurement and concessions. These are currently being transposed into Belgian law. The three directives should have been fully transposed by 18 April 2016, which is not quite the case. In the meantime, all contracting authorities, public undertakings and contracting entities are faced with legal uncertainty. Indeed, in the light of the constant case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the sufficiently precise, clear and unconditional provisions of the Directives have a direct effect, irrespective of the existence of texts resulting from national law. The Court also held that "are subject to the obligation to respect the primacy of Community law, all administrative bodies and that the fact that national provisions already existed before the entry into force of the Directive is irrelevant." Therefore, in the case of contracts launched since 18 April 2016 which exceed the European threshold, contracting authorities, public undertakings and contracting entities are assumed to apply only the provisions of Belgian legislation in accordance with the new Directives and to apply the provisions of the Directives which have direct effect. In order to remove or at least reduce this legal uncertainty, Prime Minister, as soon as possible and if necessary by publication in the Belgian Moniteur, please indicate precisely the national provisions of the legislation on public procurement which are contrary to the new directives, both in the traditional sectors and in the special sectors, as well as the provisions of the new directives which must have a direct effect under Belgian law. Such information would allow for a consistent application of the legislation by all stakeholders and a reduction in litigation related to the late transposition of the legislation. The draft law on concession contracts has transposed Directive 2014/23 on the award of concession contracts into Belgian law. The explanatory memorandum states: "The definition of the concession of services in the Directive does not accord with the concept of a concession of public service as it exists in Belgian administrative law. While the public service concession under Belgian administrative law and the service concession under Union law have common essential characteristics, they are distinguished mainly by their object: concessions under Union law may concern any type of service unless exclusions defined by the Directive, while public service concessions under Belgian administrative law concern only contracts which have as their object a public service. The concept of public service is defined in domestic law. According to Professor Orianne, there is only one public service that is erected as such by the legislator. At the local and provincial level, the concept of public service is confused with that of services of municipal or provincial interest, the content of which is therefore evolving and broad. In order to be able to grant a public service concession, the granting authority must therefore, by or under the law, be in charge of public service tasks and have the capacity to delegate them. Both the Directive and the draft which transposed it apply to service concessions which, as the case may be, may also be a public service concession under Belgian administrative law. Service concessions which are excluded from the scope of the project, either because their estimated value is below the threshold of EUR 5 186 000, or because this Law does not apply to non-economic services of general interest or activities in the field of water, but which meet the definition of public service concession, shall remain subject to the general principles and rules of internal administrative law, such as the principle of equal treatment and the obligation to give formal reasons for administrative acts." Finally, I would like to quote a new excerpt from the explanatory memorandum to this law transposing the concession contract directive: "The public service concession excluded from the scope of this draft on the ground that it concerns a service of general non-economic interest may therefore be a public service concession within the meaning of Belgian administrative law, the award of which is subject to compliance with the rules and principles of administrative law." If this reasoning is followed, public service concessions which are not exempted by the Directive will therefore be subject to the obligations arising from European legislation on concession contracts. Mr Prime Minister, do you confirm that public service concessions that do not meet the conditions for exemption from the European directive will be subject to the obligations of this directive? If so, have you assessed the administrative burden of these obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u3	Mr President, Mr President, Directives 2014/24 EU, 2014/25 EU and 2014/23 EU on public procurement and concessions should indeed, as you mentioned, be transposed by 18 April 2016. As with other European countries, we still need to finalize the transposition exercise. The relevant services of the Chancellery devote themselves to this with absolute priority, since the aim is to complete the transpositions in the shortest possible time. In fact, most of the work has already been done. The draft law on public procurement transposing the first two directives was adopted in plenary session on 12 May 2016. The draft law on concession contracts was adopted on 26 May 2016. The Law on Reasons, Information and the Right to Recourse in Public Procurement and Certain Contracts for Works and Services of 17 June 2013 remains to be amended. It was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 3 June 2016. The opinion of the Council of State is expected on 11 July 2016 and the drafting of several royal decrees implementing the above-mentioned law is also under way. At present, the draft Royal Decree on the award of public contracts in traditional sectors is presented for analysis and opinion to the Commission on Public Procurement, which will decide on this text very shortly. The question that you raise about the possible direct applicability of the provisions of the three Directives mentioned is indeed a complex issue that has been raised in the Committee on Public Procurement. The committee is composed of representatives of the different authorities, the different levels of power and representatives of the social partners. After analysis and discussion, the Commission found that it was neither possible nor recommendable to carry out a detailed and comprehensive study on this specific issue. This represents a volume of work that could not be done within an acceptable or useful time frame. Nevertheless, every effort has been made to try to inform contracting authorities on the steps to be taken. For example, the Commission for Public Procurement has issued an opinion on the use of standard forms for contracting authorities, which is available on the website I will mention in the written document publicprocurement.be. In the coming weeks, the Commission will also look at a document drawn up by the Flemish Government, "Guidelines - Notice of Market Modifications". This document is designed to guide contracting authorities in the matter of contract amendments, taking into account the European Court of Justice's Pressetext judgment. The conclusions of these discussions will then be communicated to the contracting authorities. Such an initiative will therefore also make it possible to take account of European case law in this field. Finally, the Commission on Public Procurement, at its meeting on 21 March 2016, issued a recommendation on the use of the single European market document after the final date of transposition of the Directives, published in the Belgian Monitor on 21 April 2016, setting out the procedure for publication pending the full transposition of the Directives into Belgian law. In conclusion, you note that the work done is extremely important, that every effort has been made to clarify as far as possible the contracting authorities and all the actors concerned. The transposition of the Directives took almost seven years. I would like to recall that it was only on the occasion of my assumption of office in October 2014 that the work was actually started since before that there was a government in day-to-day business. Our will is to conduct this exercise in consultation with all relevant actors. It is a commitment on our part that inevitably contributes to the drafting of a quality text that will make it easier for the actors concerned to understand the content of the legal provisions. Let me now turn to your second question. My answer will be a little bit shorter than your question. I confirm that public service concessions which do not meet the conditions for exclusion as set out in the new law on concession contracts do indeed fall within the scope of the latter. This is a direct consequence of the transposition of Directive 2014/23/EU into Belgian law. With regard to the assessment of the administrative burdens arising from these obligations, you will certainly understand that it is not possible, at present, to give an exhaustive overview of them. In fact, service concessions are introduced for the first time in Belgian law, like works concessions, which inevitably leads to new burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister. Your answer to the second question is very precise and removes any ambiguity. As regards the transposition into Belgian law of the three directives to which reference was made, I took note of the progress made. Indeed, beyond the pieces of legislation that have been passed, there is still important work that I do not underestimate. I am well aware of the difficulty for the Chancellery, in particular, in carrying out this project and finalising it as soon as possible. I have also taken note of the initiatives taken by the Commission on Public Procurement to try, as far as possible, to provide full information on these new rules to all the bodies concerned. This is indeed a very technical issue, but it is important for the legal certainty of public procurement and for the economic stakes associated with these markets. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u5	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the chemical pesticide residue is probably carcinogenic, but is still widely used in our agriculture and horticulture. Even private individuals spray it ferociously I see the chairman nodding in the shape of Roundup in their garden, where little children are wandering around. It also ends up in our diet in that way. The EU Commission has extended the authorisation for satsumas for a further 18 months, although there was no majority in the Member States up to three times. In other words, the Commission overruled the views of the Member States. Prime Minister, I already asked six questions about this to your fellow ministers De Block, Borsus and Marghem. Belgium has abstained. What does that mean? You're gonna unplug the racks, or roundup the racks, or something like that? What measures will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u6	Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Belgium's position on this dossier has been set out several times by the relevant ministers and discussed extensively in the relevant committees of Parliament. So I will not go back on all the elements that form the basis of that view. They've already been notified to you. In summary, the position that Belgium defends during the European procedure is based on the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority, the European Food Safety Authority, and the report of the FPS Public Health and the Scientific Institute for Public Health. As you know, our country has called for an extension of the authorisation of satsumas, which strengthens the conditions of use, including by prohibiting the merger of the substance with certain products called co-formulants. This rational view is based both on the precautionary principle and on the scientific advice collected. Moreover, and more generally, Belgium follows a voluntaristic approach by reducing pesticides. For example, according to the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Borsus, 17 applications were refused during 2015. As I am sure you have heard from the press, on 28 June the European Commission decided, in the absence of a qualified majority in the committee and in spite of the support of 20 Member States, to extend the current authorisation for satsumas by 18 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u7	Mr Prime Minister, of course I am very concerned about people's health. You say you want to apply the precautionary principle, but I do not think that will happen. One cannot wait for people to get cancer massively and then say that the product is definitely carcinogenic. I don't think that's ethically correct. Finally, this is yet another example of why people have no confidence in Europe and turn away from it. After all, there is so little transparency and so much uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, on several occasions, we have had the opportunity to debate, particularly in plenary, the image of our country abroad and the steps to be taken to get back on track and to respond to the socio-economic challenges facing us. In response to these national and international criticisms of the state of Belgium, you announced, in May, the organisation of a future communication campaign on Belgium's assets and attractions. To this end, you have quoted an amount of four million euros. Prime Minister, I wanted to take stock with you of this project. Do you confirm this number? From what budget will this amount be charged? How do you intend to use it? Which operators have been designated? What kind? What support do you intend to use to try to re-emphasize the coat of arms of our state? What will be the content of this communication? How will the federated entities be associated? Before communicating or in parallel with a communication, would it not be better to design a future federative project that goes beyond the Community and political divides to mobilise all the relevant stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u9	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, as a reminder, very concrete measures were quickly taken for businesses and SMEs after the attacks in Brussels. These included both carry-overs of contribution payments, capacity to resort to temporary unemployment, recognition of "sector in crisis" for horeca and trade in the Brussels Region, and specific support measures for the self-employed. These measures have also been agreed with the Brussels Government. They are and will be evaluated, monitored in the weeks and months to come. In addition to these concrete measures, we considered it necessary to launch an image campaign. This strategy aims to address concerns, for example in the area of economic investment, in the area of tourism attractiveness. Four million has already been committed by the federal government, starting from the interdepartmental provision. We immediately wished to integrate the federated entities into this strategy. At my initiative, on 25 May, the concertation committee decided to set up a task force coordinated by the Prime Minister's Chancellery and responsible for implementing the above-mentioned communications. It seemed important to me, for such an initiative, that all actors should be able to meet in order to coordinate their efforts. The Council of Ministers of 20 May approved, inter alia, the possibility of using experts in communication by launching a tender procedure for a public contract, which will be published very soon. In consultation with the experts, we will develop a comprehensive communication strategy in partnership with the various sectors. The aim is both to build on Belgium's economic, social, cultural and geographical strengths and to highlight our know-how and talents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u10	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We remain convinced that your problem is not a matter of communication, but a matter of project. We are pleased that the federated entities are associated with it, but that will not be enough to restore the coat of arms of our state if this collaboration is not more structural and if the figures of exclusion do not improve. I refer to the statistics on the unfortunate record that our country has achieved in terms of granting income for social inclusion. Similarly, this will not be the case in the absence of a socio-economic project, and if, at European level, we are not at the forefront of such essential battles as the fight against glyphosate and Roundup or fiscal coordination. We are curious to see what can be achieved with these four million euros. Instead, we encourage you to change course to restore the image of our state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u11	Mr. Flahaux informed us that he would arrive later. We'll wait until he's here to ask his question. Mr Vanden Burre has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u12	Prime Minister, on May 28, you said in an interview with the Standaard that "a model with elections every four years may not be enough to create confidence and participation", and you then proposed to hold referendums between the elections. "In this way, we can open the debate on important societal choices. At high times, power belongs to the citizens." On the practical side of such an initiative, however, you did not speak out. Without real surprise, this proposal was welcomed freshly by your majority partners, apart from the Open Vld, which said it was "open to debate", no doubt out of liberal solidarity. As you may know, participatory democracy is an important subject for environmentalists and we are fully convinced that it is necessary to involve our fellow citizens more in public debate and in public decision-making processes, whether at local, regional, federal or European level. We have also drafted and tabled proposals to this effect on numerous occasions. Your statements on the referendum have therefore drawn my full attention and interest, which leads me to ask you the following questions. Do you have more information about the practical details of the referendum, as you had in mind when you made this statement? Do you intend to take a concrete initiative in this direction in the coming months? On the part of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we are also thinking about a set of elements to encourage participatory democracy and we are in the process of finalising a proposal to create a joint parliamentary committee, composed of equal numbers of citizens and Members, in order to be able to discuss important societal choices together and to make recommendations. This initiative is clearly part of a desire to promote a more direct democracy and greater citizen participation. What do you think of such an initiative, which, I believe, falls within the category of referendums and popular consultations. In principle, could you support such an initiative and such a text, which is being finalized? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u13	Minister, I also refer to the interview in De Standaard on 28 May, in which you clearly expressed your support for referenda. This is a democratic reflex, which I very much welcome and which I very much welcome. In this House, we are putting forward proposals to amend the Constitution, virtually every legislature, so that this can happen in this country. In the meantime, we have already put forward a proposal for a decree on the other side, in the Flemish Parliament, to enable referenda, even though the sixth state reform has limited the list on which states are allowed to vote in a referendum, all the more reason why some legislative and constitutional work can be done here. It is not only democratic to give citizens a say on important issues through popular consultation. The organisation of referenda alone ensures that a thorough debate can be held on the substance, which is very enriching. We have seen this from a distance with the debate following the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty in the Netherlands. The United Kingdom referendum on the Brexit has also shown this. In the interview, you stated that you did not have any specific proposals on this matter. Firstly, will you come forward with proposals by the end of this legislature? Secondly, the Dutch cabinet has meanwhile announced that it wishes to discuss the outcome of the referendum on the Treaty between the European Union and Ukraine with the European Heads of State or Government. Normally that was on the agenda of last week's summit, 28 and 29 June. I don't know if the Brexit has crossed those agenda plans. According to the Dutch Foreign Minister, Bert Koenders, the Dutch referendum has already been discussed in several meetings of EU ministers. No agreement has yet been reached on the content or scope of a possible solution. I would have liked to know at which meetings that has already been discussed. What attitude has the Belgian Government taken in the various meetings to which Mr Koenders refers? I think it is important to know what attitude is being taken there. If we want to respect the will of the people, we must logically defend the rejection of the association agreement by the Dutch people. A third similar question, which was raised last week in Question Time, was whether you really think that the outcome of the British referendum should also be respected? Finally, on the outcome of the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty in the Netherlands, I questioned Minister Reynders at the time. He said very quickly that the federal government took note of this, but that it has no special lessons to draw from the referendum in the Netherlands. He replied that the Belgian Government should not defend or represent the interests of the Netherlands in the European institutions. It is, of course, true that the Dutch Government must draw its own operational conclusions from the outcome of the referendum. However, I believe that the federal government can draw lessons from that referendum, at least in democracy. You do not have to defend the Dutch people there, as Reynders says, but you must defend the will of the people. You must defend there that such a clear result of a referendum must be honoured at European level. Is that position taken clearly? In addition, does that affect the government's attitude to the Ukraine Treaty? We have not had a chance to express our views on this. It's an important theme. Do you not think that the people of this country should also be able to express themselves on such an important issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u14	Mr President, Mrs De Standaard, Member of the European Parliament, on 28 May last, during an interview in a print newspaper, De Standaard, I expressed my interest in using the referendum model as a tool, in some cases, to strengthen participatory or direct democracy. I emphasize that this was not the main message in this interview, but a secondary message. I was starting from the fact, in response to questions addressed to me, that throughout Europe there are many questions about how to strengthen our democratic model. Just look at the growing popularity of some populist parties in the European field. In this context, it seems to me useful, in a forward-looking way, to reflect on how to strengthen citizens' confidence in the institutions and in the democratic model, perhaps through a more participatory model. Everyone here, I believe, is aware of the need to constantly revitalize democracy and reflect on how this democratic system can be improved, for example by giving citizens more space for participation. I have been clear in this interview, and I am still clear today: there is absolutely no provision in the government agreement on this subject and there is currently no concrete project on the government table. I made it clear that there were other priorities today than this one. I said that issues related to security, economic development, structural reforms, fiscal consolidation should receive our full attention as a matter of priority. I have therefore expressed a personal and forward-looking opinion that I fully assume. I also believe that the referendum is an instrument that must be used with caution and within a well-defined framework. This requires a lot of preparation, information to the public, but also the establishment of a clear framework and rules. There is always the risk that citizens will answer a question other than that raised in the referendum. I know that there are already systems of popular consultation in our country, for example in the Walloon Region with a strict framework that organizes the modalities and type of questions that can be asked in such a consultation. I would add that, strictly speaking, a referendum is not compatible with the Constitution as it stands. Popular consultation has no decision-making effect, whereas the referendum has one. Most lawyers consider that it is not constitutionally possible to hold referendums today. I now come to Mrs. Pas's inquiry. Finally, Mrs Pas, I come to your specific questions on the referendum on 6 April. As the Foreign Minister has already replied to you, the Federal Government has taken note of the outcome of the referendum in the Netherlands. She has no particular lesson to learn from a debate that took place in a partner country and in which she did not participate. The outcome of a referendum in the Netherlands or in another Member State does not affect the way in which the federal government will address future EU agreements. Our approach only takes into account the importance of Belgium. The agreement has been ratified in Belgium following a very rich debate, both at the federal level and at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that you have other priorities. This is also our case, but it does not prevent us from being able to make observations and reflect on our democratic model. It is important to have questions about more participation, more citizen involvement in concrete acts of political decision-making. This is essential, even if it seems a bit secondary today. For the future of our democracy and its functioning, it is crucial. It can be seen every day in public demonstrations that can come to light, in Europe or elsewhere. I come back to my second question, which you have not answered at all. I know that there is nothing in the government agreement about this, but perhaps we could imagine that citizens are involved in our committee work in the House, at the same level as Members. This is done in other countries. What is your opinion on the matter? This is a path that ecologists think is very interesting. We will shortly be submitting a text because the meeting of representatives of the people and citizens seems to us to be a particularly relevant avenue. This could lead to extremely interesting compromises. I would have liked to have your opinion on this principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. You say that the fact that you are in favour of referenda was a message in the margins and certainly not the main message of the interview. That's right, but I also know that additional messages in interviews are at least as important as the main messages. You were very clear in the interview, but it is equally clear today that this government does not intend to take any initiative in this respect. Unfortunately, therefore, we should not expect anything from it. As always, the umbrella opens. There is nothing about that in the coalition agreement. There is hardly anything in the coalition agreement about asylum and migration. That's an easy alibi not to do anything for it. As regards the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty in the Netherlands, you gave the same answer as your colleague Mr Reynders. I could easily get rid of the same reply, but I expected you to defend democratic interests. I would have expected you to take at least the position in the European Union that the will of the people must be followed. It would be logical that if that Dutch government does not have the courage to draw the right conclusions from the outcome of the referendum, you should at least take part in watching over that democracy in Europe. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Nevertheless, I continue to hope. Mr President, I have prepared a motion of recommendation to support the Prime Minister's personal position in the hope that he will be supported by the rest of his government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u17	Mr President, I will be very brief. Madame Pas, the government has not taken a position on the issue that you are raising. I repeat that the government agreement does not address this aspect of things. In my personal capacity, I am very sensitive to thinking about building capacity for participatory democracy, perhaps also through parliamentary work. Nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that reforms in this direction should involve institutional changes and, in particular, an adaptation of the Constitution. The legal framework is therefore not simple in this respect. I also note, and I welcome it, that Parliament has made extensive use of hearings, which are a first step in trying to improve the quality of parliamentary work and, in any case, to take into account messages from citizens with some expertise or experience in more specific areas. Finally, the role of parliamentarians is crucial in a participatory democracy. Their daily relationship with citizens enriches their understanding when they participate in the debates of this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u18	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, asks the government - to insist at European level that the outcome of the referendum in the Netherlands on the Ukraine Convention be honoured; - to urge at European level that the outcome of the UK referendum on the Brexit be respected as a matter of urgency; - to enable referenda in their own country.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - to insist at European level that the outcome of the referendum held in the Netherlands on the agreement with Ukraine be taken into account; - to insist at European level that the outcome of the British referendum on Brexit be respected as soon as possible; - to make it possible to hold referendums at national level." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin and Mr Peter Buysrogge. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Philippe Pivin and Peter Buysrogge. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u19	Prime Minister, my question was tabled a month ago, so I'm adjusting it a little bit. Our country is facing an increasingly important "social" movement. In addition to the long-announced demonstrations and strikes in the public service, wild strikes have been added to the SNCB, and, without the management of their business being dependent in any way on federal jurisdiction, the TEC Walloons have mobilized alongside the railway agents. Engaged for what?, We must therefore ask ourselves. To bring down the government! The line between the social partners and political actors in the management of economic and social affairs is largely crossed. The government is accused of a lack of consultation with the unions, despite the numerous consultation meetings organized by the Minister of Justice to put an end to the movement of prison guards, despite the action of the Minister of Mobility to put an end to Wallonia's rail blockade. We know, Prime Minister, that you have always had a desire for dialogue. This is not a new attitude on your part. You invited the unions to meet during the negotiations for the formation of the government. Ministers constantly point out that their action is based as much as possible on the results of the consultation between the social partners. In spite of this, trade unions continue to blame you for their willingness to go into force without taking social dialogue into account, even though they do not propose any alternative solutions to the decisions taken. To put an end to this dialogue of the deaf and to make it clear to everyone who is responsible, could you remind us of the various offers of meetings made to the unions, to your initiative and to that of your ministers and of the replies made by the unions to these invitations? This would enable us to shed light on the real intentions and attitudes of each other regarding the willingness to negotiate or, on the contrary, to wage a war of wear and tear. In fact, in addition to the inconvenience caused to all Belgians in their daily lives, strikes have economic and social consequences. Can you tell us what are already and what will be the consequences of trade union actions on the economic life of our country – which did not need it after those caused by terrorism? How much will be the financial losses of the firms in difficulty, those which are or are likely to be terminated as a result of these movements, and the redundancies resulting from the difficulties encountered by the companies as a result of these repeated strikes? As our country, under your authority, finally manages to face up to the economic challenges that have been exacerbated by the tragic events that I have just mentioned - the renewal in terms of job creation shows - the indicators of the National Bank of Belgium attest that this trade union war against your government and its action are likely to weaken the country. Therefore, without calling into question the right to strike, it is important to put everyone in front of their responsibilities and to make things clear to our fellow citizens. To conclude with a little bit of humor, we know that the leader of the opposition considers that you have sold your soul to some; I think it is already positive that she considers you to have a soul. However, I don't think you sold it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u20	Dear colleague, my soul has no price! I adapted the answer to a question that was asked two weeks ago. We have always wanted, in accordance with a commitment made since the formation of the government, to give space for social consultation. In our view, there is, on the one hand, parliamentary democracy and a government that has the support of a parliamentary majority with Members elected by universal suffrage throughout the country. On the other hand, there is respect for social democracy, as it allows consultation to improve, strengthen and modulate decisions taken in parliament and in government. This cannot work if some consider that social consultation must lead to the implementation of a minority point of view, sometimes even extremely minority, against the desire of democracy and the parliamentary majority. This is where there is a fundamental divergence of views between the government and some within certain unions. This is a minority point of view in some unions, as is seen in several subjects. Finally, once again, there is reality and there is the perception that some would like to give. What is the reality? In each of the major issues, the ministers of this government have given a great deal of their time and energy to restore every opportunity for social consultation. Thus, for example, with regard to the prison issue, negotiations have been conducted by the Minister of Justice for many weeks. The concerns expressed were taken into account. However, while some consider that an agreement is only possible by giving a complete reason to a very small minority, it must be noted that the government's view on how to organise social consultation is very different. However, in the context of this issue, we have always been clear, we have given space, but at some point we were called upon to say that the negotiations were over, that we had reached the end of what was possible. Negotiations and consultations are also held on a daily basis with social actors in the field of health and pensions (National Pension Commission). Moreover, as part of a structural reform that is very important for our future and our ability to create more jobs tomorrow – I am thinking here of the labour market – the formal decision to validate relatively precise and clear political principles and submit them to the Group of Ten has been taken. Only after consultation with the Minister concerned will a bill be tabled at the government table. This demonstrates our concern to listen, to take into account the comments and suggestions that can be made to us in a process such as the one in question. Finally, a large number of social agreements have been concluded for just under two years and have been widely implemented by this Government. It is true that this has not always been the case, because our role is also to verify that budgetary impacts have been taken into account. However, this has not always been the case, considering certain agreements that have been concluded. However, most of the time we have implemented the social agreements that have been concluded within the Group of Ten, which shows that we are taking social dialogue seriously, but within a very specific framework. It is not our intention to delegate the leadership of the country to the Group of Ten. Parliament and the government could not accept it. I will conclude by telling you that this strategy has achieved positive results. I have had the opportunity to mention on several occasions in plenary session the positive figures in terms of job creation and the reduction in the number of bankruptcies. I agree with you that the National Bank, the Plan Office, the international organizations are unanimous in saying that we are on the right path, that we must continue and amplify the reforms that have been undertaken. The first meetings are known: on the one hand, the budgetary work which will restart in the coming weeks and extend beyond the summer and, on the other hand, the continuation in accordance with the government agreement of the implementation of structural reforms with always the clear objective of attempting to stimulate job creation. It is by stimulating job creation that we will succeed in ensuring that there is a real capacity for solidarity with truly funded social protection. As I like to say, I repeat again here, we do not work with slogans but we are implementing reforms, because we do not finance solidarity with slogans but with additional jobs. That is the meaning of the approach we have chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, which I believe is putting things right. I do believe that the best result any government can achieve is in terms of employment. If things continue to evolve as they do today, it is quite comforting because, throughout the European Union, there are 21 million unemployed. This month, there were 122,000 fewer unemployed in Europe. This is obviously still insufficient, but proportionally the results are better in Belgium. As for the method of social dialogue, it sometimes makes me laugh a bit when I call the right-wing government MR and N-VA. In fact, when we see the French government, even though it is a "socialist state", coming to ban demonstrations against the Labour Law, which has never been seen since the Algerian war in terms of banning demonstrations, I find that social dialogue is more open here than in some other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u22	Prime Minister, my question undoubtedly has the longest title today. It is therefore an important issue that we are dealing with in this question. On 10 May 2016, the Committee I's advisory committee discussed the report of the Committee of the Regions, which now has the long title "The investigation of the attention or lack thereof of the Belgian intelligence services to the potential threats that electronic programmes for monitoring communications and information systems that develop foreign powers and/or foreign intelligence services on a large scale can pose to the Belgian scientific and economic potential. Mr Prime Minister, in that report the Committee I warns that we can assume that Belgian companies, scientific institutions and political authorities are the target of economic espionage, and that Belgian critical infrastructure, such as the servers of the main telecom operators, is susceptible to espionage. A further problem outlined is that our intelligence services are unable or would not be up to it. In its report, the Committee I makes a series of recommendations, which I would like to summarize for you. Firstly, OCAD and the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) should jointly analyse the phenomenon of the threat posed by foreign interception systems to the Belgian WEP or Belgian scientific and economic potential. They should also identify critical infrastructures. Secondly, under the leadership of the National Security Council, an information platform on the strategic protection of scientific and economic potential should be set up. At the same time, efforts to improve cyber security should continue. This also requires an assessment of the suitability of the 2011 Act on Critical Infrastructures. Thirdly, the immediate allocation of the mandate for the approval of ICT systems, including home-source encryption, should be assigned without delay to a public service, such as the National Security Council or the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium. Fourthly, the adoption by the National Security Council of a list of actors, both natural and legal, active in economic and industrial sectors and related to Defence, as provided for in Article 11 of the Organic Intelligence Act of 1998. Fifthly, the Belgian intelligence and security services must ensure that they are careful in the exchange of information in the context of cooperation with foreign intelligence services. The National Security Council should also register that principle in the terms of communication of information to foreign services in accordance with Article 20 of the Organic Intelligence Act. Prime Minister, these are important recommendations. I assume the government has taken note of it by now. That's why I would have liked to ask two punctual questions. What measures does the government intend to take to meet the recommendations of the Committee I as discussed above? What is the timing of the measures? The recommendations refer to various analyses to be carried out: an analysis by the OCAD and the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium to identify the phenomenon of the threat posed by foreign interception systems and an analysis of the appropriateness of the 2011 Act. Will you have those analyses carried out by whom and what is its timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u23	Mr President, the title of the question was long and the answer will be long, I fear. Mr Buysrogge, I always take note of the recommendations made by the Standing Supervisory Committee on Intelligence and Security. The National Security Council has quickly set out a number of priorities with which the services were asked to work. This decision has led to the establishment of a number of platforms within the framework of the Information and Security Coordination Committee. Different platforms are important in the context of your questions. They are working on the following priorities. Firstly, the protection of scientific and economic potential and counter-espionage. The VSSE and ADIV have been instructed by the National Security Council to develop a vision and strategy on the protection of scientific and economic potential and counter-espionage. Meanwhile, intelligence services are continuing to follow up traditional espionage activities and the threat to scientific and economic potential carried out by foreign intelligence agents. It shall monitor and sensitise the strategic, economic and scientific sectors that may be endorsed by foreign powers in relation to risk derivatives, threats, protection measures to be taken and action to be taken in the event of incidents. The two services also play a preventive, advisory and supportive role for the benefit of stakeholders. Second, cybersecurity. The CCB, together with the partners concerned, finalises a national contingency plan for the management of cyber incidents that may have an impact at national level. Integrated and centralised management of the vital sectors is necessary. These sectors include critical infrastructures, the vital functions of public authorities, scientific and economic potential and other sectors such as health. The cyber intelligence aspect is also part of the work of this platform. Structures and processes need to be established to continuously inform Belgians about the cyber threat against Belgian critical information processing systems, to sensitise users, to protect these information processing systems and to neutralize attacks on these systems. Among other things, the CCB asked the OCAD to analyse the threat of cyberterrorism. In the context of this analysis, cyberterrorism is defined as follows: "Cyber attacks targeting certain societal pain points, such as critical infrastructure, energy, banks, for ideological or political reasons, to achieve their goal of influencing society's collective psychology through terror. These attacks may be aimed at the networks themselves, but can also be used to hit computer-controlled systems." This definition means that the analysis of the OCAD does not only cover the classical use by terrorists of the Internet as a tool to spread their propaganda, for example. The OCAD submitted an application for contribution to this analysis to the Federal Police, State Security, ADIV and CCB. The contributions of these various support services are expected by mid-August 2016. Thirdly, classification, authorisations, certificates and safety advice. One of the objectives of this platform is to optimise the security of communication and information systems. This also means determining the organisation of the complete secure architecture, management and other modalities of a national encryption system. The platform is also working on the development of a national governmental secure network for classified and unclassified information. It is also necessary to establish a accreditation strategy for the classified networks. Currently, the approval of the classified networks is carried out by the ADIV, which also takes the leading role in the processing of a renewed national cryptomodule. Fourthly, the critical infrastructure. The CCB has launched a project to implement an early warning system focusing on critical infrastructure and vital sectors to automate and improve the management of information on the threats and communication with the various institutions concerned and threatened. That system will monitor information from secure and numerous open governmental or commercial sources, analyse existing threats, latest trends and suspicious information, handle information and allow additional information to be added and then communicate it in ready-to-use form and in a fully secure manner with potentially threatened vital sectors. The system will be developed in 2016. The platform shall also examine the extent to which those projects could lead to the amendment of the law of 2011 on critical infrastructure. On cooperation with foreign intelligence services, a draft directive is being prepared in accordance with Article 20 of the organic law of 1998 of the intelligence and security services. You will understand that the drafting of the text of the vision has come at a lower pace, because our security services are making maximum efforts to protect our fellow countrymen in both the interior and the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed reply. We live in times of terror. It is therefore important that this government pays sufficient attention to a tough approach to terrorism. At the same time, unfortunately, the world also continues and there are other threats that deserve attention. In the past, too little attention has been paid to the security of our economic potential, such as security against espionage. According to the Committee I report, the situation is particularly acute in the telecommunications sector. The fact that we still do not know what we can call critical infrastructure is a pity. It is therefore a good thing that the government has finally set priorities with the many services involved. It concerns the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, but there are many more services involved, such as the intelligence services, the OCAD, and you name it. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium has an important role to play in coordinating matters. The first work is, of course, to make good analyses and to map out the current situation. I have heard you put on some interesting elements, such as the emergency plan or the earlywarning system that has been developed. It is also important to define follow-up steps. I will certainly come back to that. I am satisfied with the way in which it is handled and I note a contrast with the past approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u25	Mr President, first of all, this is not a confession. I must honestly say that I am not looking at the program, but that a loyal fan of the Royalty VTM program has reported this to me. The broadcast on 12 June claimed that Prince Laurent's personal expenses of EUR 16 000 wrongly spent on his operating and personnel costs were refunded to the State and that you would have informed that you had received a copy of it. On the other hand, the Budget Department claims that the amount has been repaid, but it does not know where it can be found in the budget. We had to receive that information from the Court of Auditors. After all, Parliament itself has insufficient access and no control over this matter. Parliament only receives a general activity report but cannot consult or verify the effective figures in the accounts of the members of the Royal House. Nor can Parliament check whether there are surpluses on operating costs. However, the law provides that Parliament should be able to exercise that control. My questions to you, Prime Minister, are as follows. Firstly, can you clarify those claims about Prince Laurent's personal costs of EUR 16 000 stating that you would have received a copy of them? Secondly, how do you explain that this is not reflected in the budget as claimed by the person responsible for the Budget Department? Thirdly, do you believe that there is a need to amend the law in order to give Parliament control powers and extend them so that Parliament itself can consult and verify the accounts of the members of the Royal House without having to go through the Court of Auditors? Will the government take initiatives along these lines or is nothing in the coalition agreement so that nothing will come of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u26	The Law of 17 November 2013 on the donations and allowances granted to members of the royal family, as well as the transparency of the monarchy's finances, aims to increase the control and transparency of the royal family's finances. Thus, in accordance with Article 14, the first chairman and the chairman of the Court of Auditors shall examine the legality and regularity of expenditure in terms of operation and staff. On Prince Laurent's 2014 expenditure, the Court of Auditors made a few comments on this last part. These comments were included in the Court of Auditors' report of 29 October 2015 submitted to Parliament. Since the law only provides for the audit of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors is not competent to declare an amount invalid, I contacted the Court of Auditors to find out the amount in question and then to inform Prince Laurent. This amount, which amounted to EUR 16 093 for 2014, was repaid in full on 6 January. This is the first time that such a situation has occurred and that the members of the royal family, as defined by law, submit an activity report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u27	Prime Minister, I did not receive any answers to my questions. I also received that report from the Court of Auditors. I have read the comments in them, but I have not received any explanation as to why the Budget Department does not know where to find the refund. Nor have I received an answer to my justified plea for greater transparency and above all to ensure that, as the law requires, the powers of Members of Parliament are extended to monitor and verify figures themselves without the detour of reports from the Court of Auditors, while the Court of Auditors has no powers to intervene, as you yourself say. I can assume that your answer covers the opinion of the entire government. You would contradict me if that were not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, very recently the former chairman of the N-VA group in this House, constitutional specialist Hendrik Vuye, raised the question of whether Queen Mathilde should receive personalities in audience. The reason for this was an audience of the President of the World Bank with the Queen. According to Mr Vuye, that is not the case, because no one is politically responsible for the conduct and conduct of the political activities of the members of the Court. This is only the case for the King, the Head of State, who is covered by ministerial responsibility for his political actions. For the other members of the Court, a political position is not allowed, precisely because they are not ministerially covered. The Court has reacted rather provocatively by stating that the Queen has already given audiences in the past and that this would happen even more. They also stated that this had been done in consultation with the government, in particular with the Minister for Development Cooperation, Mr De Croo, who also confirmed it. Finally, the Palace's website on the role of the Queen stated: "As a UN recipient of the sustainable development objectives, it will take the opportunity to discuss the plans of support for and implementation of the sustainable development objectives by the World Bank. It is built on earlier discussions that the queen had with the World Bank in Washington DC and at the World Economic Forum in Davos. The audience will take place at the Royal Palace in Brussels. The spokesperson of the Palace added that it was not a political meeting at all. I think that is a very curious statement. The World Bank is undoubtedly an institution that plays a political role in the world, so meeting with its President does not seem to be a non-binding event. If this wasn't a political meeting, then what was it? First of all, Prime Minister, are political acts of members of the Court other than those of the King? Are they ministerially covered or are you following Mr Vuye's statement that this is not the case? Secondly, can members of the Court, apart from the head of state, personalities, political leaders, leaders of institutions that count politics, receive in audience? If so, what are you basing yourself on? Thirdly, do you think that the Queen's audience with the President of the World Bank had a political character? If not, what do you think was the nature of the meeting? Is the meeting politically covered by a minister or the government? Finally, if the meeting was ministerially covered, I would have liked to know the subject. What agreements have been reached or what conclusions can we draw from that discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the Constitution provides only for ministerial responsibility for acts of the King, but not for acts of other members of the royal family. In this case, the Queen's meeting with the President of the World Bank was part of the contacts that the Queen has with various actors in the context of her designation by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, as an advocate for sustainable development goals, such as Queen Rania of Jordan. This designation was approved by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and by the Minister for Development Cooperation and the preparation of the meeting took place in consultation with the Government. For many years, the royal family has been committed, here in Belgium as well as in other countries, to major themes on which there is broad consensus and general social concern. This kind of commitment has no political character. It has nothing to do with expressing a political position and has been a traditional practice for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You say it wasn't a political meeting, but I doubt it. However, I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether anyone other than the Head of State would say that the law requires only the Head of State to be covered by the Ministry, i.e. another member of the Royal Family, to receive someone in audience. I will read your answer carefully and ask for further clarification in writing if necessary, because that is not clear to me with the answer you gave me today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u31	Just a little improvement. It is not Rania of Jordan but the princess of Sweden, who has also been referred to by Mr Ban Ki-moon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u32	Mr Prime Minister, since last week's plenary debate, things have changed and news has come after the Brexit. Last week, debates on this matter were launched in the European Parliament. Today we could already see that fanatic Verhofstadt interrupts any Brit who takes the floor in the European Parliament because he feels that they no longer have the right to speak of it. He repeated his plea for a European superstate. Unfortunately, that dogma continues to exist even after the clear result of the Brexit. We have the dogma in mind that, if things are going well with the European Union, there must be more European Union. However, if things go badly with the European Union, the solution is also more European Union. First of all, Prime Minister, do you support Verhofstadt's plea? Are you still convinced that more European Union is the solution? After all, I believe that we should take advantage of the opportunity to obtain the opposite. Secondly, in the meantime, it has become clear that some of the things that scared us in the Brexit area are not running at all. For example, the fairs have already recovered after a few days. The FTSE is now even higher than before the referendum. We can see that many countries have already applied to enter into free trade agreements with the United Kingdom. Even on a local level, there are already positive effects of the Brexit. I can talk about my own city, which is now hopefully able to use the low interest rates in the United States, to finally get rid of a cross-border lease. Do you already have a general view of the consequences, not just the economic but, of course, the political consequences, of the Brexit? What is your preferred approach? Can you explain more about the approach you will be defending in the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u33	After last week's debate, Prime Minister, I would like to present three more elements to you in plenary. A first element is the strengthening of cooperation. I was struck by this debate by the fact that a number of group leaders, including Patrick Dewael, raised the question of Belgium's position on enhanced cooperation. You did not really answer that question in your answer. Maybe you can do that now. What commitments could Belgium make in this respect? Secondly, I would like to present to you a case of a couple consisting of a Belgian man and a British woman who has lived in Belgium for a long time and has moved to Great Britain. The British woman wants to apply for Belgian nationality. I am well aware that it is not your competence, but naturalization may be a solution here. Nationality declaration cannot be because they do not live in Belgium. Is naturalization an option? Naturalisation can be done for people with great merit to our country, but there may be a specific problem as a result of the Brexit. Thirdly, during the debate in plenary, the leader of the N-VA group said very clearly that he rejected the idea of an ever closer union. I would like to ask whether that is the Belgian position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, last Thursday I focused on two points. First of all, what about the Brexit negotiations? Secondly, how do we see the future of Europe? Since Thursday, I have seen a few developments on these two points and I would like to hear more from you. Firstly, as regards the Brexit negotiations. If I follow the difficult-to-follow developments in Britain, then it seems that all the chancers of the presidency and thus the British Government's presidency have announced that they will not call in Article 50 soon. Some speak of the end of this year, others speak of not even this year. How do we view such an attitude? What can be done about it? The Commission would examine whether Article 7 of the Treaty could be invoked to exert pressure on Britain. Article 7 states, quite simply translated, that each Member State must fulfil its European obligations and its European interests. It could be seen that continuing to drag on with the invocation of Article 50 is tantamount to damaging the interests of the European Union. Perhaps there are other means, but as far as my group is concerned, I do not think we should stand by and watch the British behavior getting clearer and clearer. What's the government's position? Secondly, many statements are made on the future of Europe. The meeting between Mrs Merkel, Mr Hollande and Mr Renzi was perhaps the most important meeting there was. A few things came out of that. Has the government been involved in this before or after? How do you view that? Finally, I read in the international press that some countries have already prepared their teams to measure the damage caused by the Brexit, for example in the economic field, and to assess the impact on the legislation, as Mr De Vriendt has just said. Is that what you're doing? Do we have such a team? On our return in September, I would like to see a good note outlining the potential impact of the Brexit on our economy and our social system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will not debate again as we did last Thursday. I wanted to know the situation and its evolution since the plenary debate on the modalities of this Brexit. I am pleased that the 27 agree that this should be done in a clear and clear manner and in the shortest possible time, in order to avoid any uncertainty. This unanimity must be stressed. It is curious to see that all English arsonists go on vacation today and are in the process of marching. Obviously, these candidates for Brexit did not have a plan for the post-Brexit and, paradoxically, it is the opponents of Brexit who will have to negotiate this Brexit, which is a climax! It would be interesting to know what arrangements would be put in place in Belgium, particularly in relation to those negotiations. I am pleased that the four fundamental freedoms of the market are inexcusable. It is timely to remind the English. We can't have butter and butter money... It is important to confirm this and to provide us with some additional information in relation to this scenario. Secondly, for the future of the European Union – I think it is the most important – you have mentioned certain elements as well as certain projects. What areas will Belgium place particular emphasis on? There is one area in which you are going to invest yourself in the next few days: the question of collective defence. In Warsaw there will be a question of European defence, but other areas, such as internal security, will be discussed. It would be interesting for Belgium, for my part, to choose one or the other theme that it can really bear for the future of the European Union. Finally, I see a certain float, and that is an understatement, in the way your government intends to address this issue. I was very shocked by the terms used by Mr. From Roover during last Thursday's session. I've read the transcript again. Four parties defeated the European elites: the Vlaams Belang, the N-VA, the People's Party and the PTB. It's no coincidence. Only populist parties use these terms. It is rather regrettable to observe the terms used to castigate Europe: "Small elitist group, technocrat, bad loser". It is quite serious to describe Europe as that. Another element seems serious to me. On the occasion of this debate on Brexit, the N-VA came with the debate on borders, the right of peoples to self-determination, arguing that this is a fundamental right proclaimed by the United Nations. It's totally out of the question! This is not the right of peoples to self-determination! Britain has not changed its borders. I was very surprised to observe that on the occasion of the Brexit, Mr. De Roover came with such a debate, because it was totally alien to the question. It was rather the agenda of the N-VA that appeared. You really find yourself in a complicated political situation, with a sincere will to move forward, but with a real Europhobic ball within your government. The terms used by Mr. De Roover in his speech are clear. How are you going to cope with such a political situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u36	Mr Dallemagne, of course, this debate is taking place a few days after the plenary session. Since Thursday, few new elements have objectively emerged. But I hope that we can go back to one or the other point to clarify a number of messages. In my view, there are two different challenges for the next few months. The first challenge is to see what cooperation between the UK and Europe will be possible in the coming months. I am very clear about this: I think it is very important to get a notification as soon as possible. I think the uncertainty would be a bad thing. I believe that the political pressure of the 27 Member States on the next government in the UK will be the best and the unique tool. At some point, financial or economic pressure may also have an impact. I have heard the first statements from one of Britain's candidate prime ministers. I note that the timing is at the end of this year or early next year. If that were the case, that would be a problem. I'm pleading for certainty. That will be Belgium's position in the European institutions. In order to exert real pressure in this regard, it is also necessary that the 27 Member States continue to share an important position, in particular: no negotiations, neither informally nor formally, without notification. There is a risk that the British Government will try to hold informal talks with a number of Member States individually on the forms that a new cooperation with Europe can take. The first priority is therefore relations between Europe and Belgium. I confirm that Minister Peeters has set up a task force. We have also decided to strengthen the diplomatic teams of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also intend to put an item on the agenda of the Consultative Committee in the next few days to see what coordination we can organise with the Länder in this perspective, including in order to look at the problems of economic impact. I have been able to look at a number of studies on the economic impact before the referendum, but there are still many questions. No one today knows what forms the relationship can take in the future. This is difficult to determine in a study, without knowing what choices we will make. Depending on the choices we make, different consequences are possible. The first is, therefore, what will be the future of cooperation between Britain and Europe? The second challenge is a renewal project, a relay project for Europe. I note that everyone, each with his individualities and discourses, agrees on this. Mr Dallemagne, all the parties that you mentioned, as well as others, from both the majority and the opposition, considered, each with its own words and its sensitivity, of course, that this vote was a radio alarm. I used the term "clash" or "gif" for the European project, which I believe to be. Nevertheless, I note with you that this project does not only pose a problem of communication and explanation. The conviction that we are many to share and that I have observed in our Parliament and at European level is that we must reason every time to close union, to take up the expression of Mr. De Vriendt, and plead for a Europe closer to the citizens by developing precise and concrete projects, whose pragmatism would be perceptible by each of them. As I have said on several occasions, because I am convinced of this, I am fully convinced that our fellow citizens, especially the younger generations, do not spontaneously measure the added value of the European project and cannot make – Mr Van der Maelen, you have spoken of your personal experience – the difference between the previous century and this one. Nowadays, for the young generation, peace, prosperity and respect for each other are at least for many people, but unfortunately not for everyone, evident values. Now, I believe, a new step is needed, with a lot of pragmatism, a lot of realism and a number of concrete commitments. These concrete commitments, which will be addressed during the September Conclave, for which I strongly advocated, relate to the following points. First point, security. This is very concrete for our fellow citizens. The protection of our external borders is the best guarantee for free movement within the European Union. There is no possible Schengen area without a better exchange of information within the Schengen area. On the one hand, this is the meaning of the NRP, which goes beyond the Schengen framework, and for which the Belgian Government has been at the forefront, and on the other hand, control at the external borders. Security is not just the situation inside. It also means acting together outside the European Union. It is the Defence Strategy, which will be one of the major issues, one of the major debates. An important momentum will take place in a few days. On Thursday night, I will be present until the weekend at the Warsaw Summit. Deuxième point, deepening the internal market. Today, there is no complete internal market. We're very far from it. Why is there no Google or Facebook in Europe? Because there are many barriers in the telecom sector, which is a key sector for the future. It is necessary to ensure that at some point, in a true talk, the leaders of the 27 countries wonder what they can do together to try to broaden and deepen the internal market. This is very concrete to generate growth, added value and employment. Why don't we have big players in the telecom sector? The observation of the map of the world must lead us to ask ourselves this question. We cannot remain insensitive in this regard. Another example is COP21! This is a very important issue. How can we invest to strengthen our capacity to succeed in the energy transition and make it a lever for growth and employment across Europe? The third point is the strategic investment. I am convinced that, despite the Juncker Fund, there is still work to be done. After the summer, a decision of principle must be taken at European level on whether or not to strengthen and extend the Juncker Fund. In my personal opinion, we should do so in the perspective of the strategy for relance and job creation. The clean-up is certainly part of that. In this respect, the majority and opposition in Parliament differ. For us, the clean-up is important. We are paying today's invoices, and that should be the intention, even though I am aware that this is not obvious. It's about remodeling with a perspective. A second structural and substantial reform is also needed to modernise our economy and our labour market. We must adapt the reality of labour relations to the new forms of life in society. Telework is a good example. Make personal, family and working life compatible, but also take into account the fact that companies need to produce more and react more to conquer new markets. So find that new balance. Thirdly, investment capacity. I think that in recent years, in Europe, not only in Belgium but in many European countries, sanitation has been done on the back of investments. It was easy, it was less complicated. We must ask ourselves whether an investment strategy should not be relaunched at the start of a European strategy. In any case, I will plead in this direction after the summer. Here are some things I wanted to talk about: security, employment and growth, strengthening the internal market, strategic investments. These are some key points to try to act on. Much can be done under the current treaties, for example in the area of enhanced cooperation. I'm certainly not in favour of a Europe à la carte. Countries in the European Union must jointly support the project. So I am not in favour of a Europe à la carte, but a Europe at different speeds is the direction we should follow, I think. We should not be hypocritical, a number of countries are not prepared to cooperate so quickly on certain points, but that should not be a burden on the other Member States that want to work faster. Mr Dallemagne, I know the game well and I respect it. It is an attempt to show any serious and fundamental differences within the majority on this issue. I must reassure you, or grieve you, but the serenity on this issue within the majority is maximum and total. With a lot of pragmatism, we have the ability to systematically define a line. Every time I defended a line before the European bodies, as I have just presented one here, I have done so with the support of the four parties that make up the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. I have some elements of reply. As you know, I was, perhaps, the only one in this Chamber, pleased with the outcome of the Brexirefementum. I attach great importance to the sovereignty of nation states and to giving decision-making power to the people. But today it is a reality that both this country and the United Kingdom have an interest in maintaining good relations. The United Kingdom is the fourth export destination for Flanders. It is an important market for all ports: Antwerp, Ghent, Ostend, Zeebrugge. I would certainly like to give you the opportunity not to be led by the discourse I heard from Mr Van der Maelen on Thursday, namely to plead for a hard Brexit. Do not step along with the atmosphere of Juncker and Verhofstadt that the Brexit can only be at a high price. These statements are made out of fear of a domino effect with new referendums and a European disintegration. It is precisely by continuing to move towards more European integration and more European Union that more discontent will be created which will lead to multiple exits. You say that the referendum is a blow to Europe, but I do not agree with that. It is a blow to the European Union and that is a distinction we must make. I am in favour of European cooperation, as everyone seems to me to be in favour of European cooperation, but the outcome of the referendum was a clear statement against an undemocratic, meddling and wasteful European Union that was very far away from the European cooperation that Monnet and Schuman had in mind at the time. So please consider this Brexit an opportunity to opt for a completely different European cooperation. Let us opt for a European cooperation where there is once again more decision-making power on the part of the Member States. Mr Dallemagne, it is indeed a question of sovereignty and self-determination. The British have chosen to re-decide on their own pennies and their own laws against EU interference. That is the debate that must be dared to take place today. Please do not run away towards more European Union, albeit at different speeds. I fear that this is not at all the way we should choose. Moreover, I do not believe that this will be sustainable either. If you choose that road, there will be more exits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Firstly, I honestly believe that, given the historic role we have in Europe, Belgium should take the lead in this enhanced cooperation or in resolving this crisis tout court. I believe that we also have credit with other countries. We're a small country, but I think we have credit. Let's take advantage of that. I hope you will be able to do this at full speed because I have heard the leader of the N-VA say that he rejects the idea of an ever closer union. If you can assure us here that there is unanimity within your government, let us assume that. Don't let them stop you at all. Secondly, you are right to put a number of new themes on the table. Those who support the Brexit, who are in that camp, want a Europe that does more for them, a Europe that does something for them in return. To achieve this, Europe will just need more administrative capacity, including in a number of new areas. So that's an interesting paradox. People who are in the Brexit camp may want a Europe that can do more for a number of themes. For example, when you talk about strategic investments, it was the European Commission that put an ambitious plan on the table. However, a number of national Member States have blocked this. We must not forget that. One last point, that concrete case. My question is really simple: can we do something about naturalization for British people who are married to Belgians who have lived in Belgium for a long time but now live in Britain? There are so many people. My sister's been living in Britain for 12 years. If she reads the statements of Theresa May, for example, then I think there is a problem for Belgians who live in Britain but also for British married to Belgians who now live in Britain and want to become Belgian. The question is, is there anything we can do for these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I repeat what I asked for last Thursday, namely to be able to have an extensive exchange of views at the beginning of September across the borders of opposition and majority. As far as I am concerned, but also anyone who is looking at this somewhat objectively, the European project is the biggest political project of the last century and remains so, as far as I can see, even for this century. I think it is useful, necessary and necessary that we try to play on all chessboards. The government will play on the government side, and we can play on the parliaments side with our parliamentary diplomacy. A number of Members' meetings are on the agenda for September, October and November. This difficult debate on the future of the Europe of 27 should be prepared as well as possible. I will therefore ask the President-in-Office to be able to sit together for an afternoon at the beginning of September and perhaps some of the fog that is hanging over the Channel and across Europe will be cleared up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u40	Prime Minister, you are right to say that European integration is an extremely important project. It is one of the greatest political projects in the history of humanity. I usually say that it is a real project of civilization, in the sense that it places the physical and social protection of citizens at the heart of its political ambition. It is, of course, a valuable project that must be able to safeguard and carry out in an ambitious way. We can join you and support you on the elements you mentioned, particularly in terms of job protection and investment. Despite what you say about your government, and even if I will believe you, I still think you have a problem. I hear, on the one hand, last Thursday, Mr. De Roover said that the idea of an ever closer union is self-destructive and fatal for the European Union. A few minutes later, Mr Miller replied, "We are in favour of a closer union". This reflects a difficulty. It should not be underestimated. I hope that you will strengthen accession and force this closer European construction. But it won't be easy or won. We will be there to support this European project, to move forward and to prevent opposing forces from preventing Belgium from playing its historic role.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about Belgian space policy because Minister Sleurs is constantly replying to me that discussions are under way in intercabinets and that the project will come soon. According to her, "priority is given to the preparation of the next ministerial conference of the European Space Agency (ESA) to be held in Lucerne on 1 and 2 December 2016. Despite the additional work associated with the creation of the Belgian Space Agency, the Belspo Space Service provides as much care for this preparation as at previous ministerial conferences." It is precisely these two points that concern me: the ESA projects and the creation of the Space Agency. I'm not the only one! The Walloon Minister of Economy was questioned by my colleague Marie-Dominique Simonet on 6 June 2016 concerning the creation of the inter-federal space agency as an autonomous entity and the divestment of the administration of the Scientific Policy for the Management of Belgian Participation in ESA's programmes. The Minister stated in his response that the Region was not seized of anything today, while the economic benefits of the aerospace sector are enormous for Wallonia. It deplores the fact that the cost of the Agency remains at stake, as well as the key to the distribution of economic benefits and governance. For example, the presence of the Regions with a deliberative or consultative voice is still unknown. On 25 February 2016, you received a written question from my colleague Catherine Fonck about Belgian participation in ESA's activities and the current balanced distribution of benefits for each Region, as it seemed that the calculation method, which satisfied industry and scientists, did not suit Minister Sleurs. It wishes to "better respect the regional distribution keys". The industrial fabric in the space sector is more developed in Wallonia than in the north of the country and in this context there are risks of the Flemish political authorities advocating the application of distribution keys through this Agency, which could prove to be unfavourable to Walloon companies. You did not respond very much to our concerns and just said: "The new structure in which federated entities could be involved, as stipulated in the government agreement, will have to allow a much more efficient and efficient mobilization of the federal space resources, while adapting to the new space landscape. This new structure will build on the following foundations: a modern and transparent management structure, statutory missions and management agreement, and a resumption of all federal space functions, personnel and related resources. The projects, which are the result of broad consultation with all stakeholders, i.e. representatives of the sector, trade unions and federated entities, are currently being examined within the government." We are, Prime Minister, a few months later. The texts have not yet been tabled and there are still concerns, particularly among the players in the sector. The Belgian space sector is a real economic challenge with annual turnover of around €350 million, and some 4,000 direct jobs, not to mention indirect jobs. It is therefore essential to preserve it, especially since high technology is in use in the sector. Industrialists are also questioning the modalities and timelines for the establishment of the Space Agency, as well as the economic benefits of ESA projects, in particular in preparation for the ministerial conference on 1 and 2 December 2016. A clear position and structure must have been decided in consultation with the sector before that date. I have five questions, Prime Minister. What have you put in place to ensure the protection of industrialists and scientists, including Walloons, in the space sector? You told us that broad consultation had taken place, which Minister Marcourt does not seem to confirm. Is consultation with the sector guaranteed on both sides of the linguistic border? How has it been put in place in practice? Why are federated entities not consulted, given the importance of economic benefits for each Region? How and when will the key to allocating the benefits of ESA programs be decided? Is the creation of the Belgian space agency really in place with respect for the actors in the space sector on both sides of the linguistic border?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u42	Mr President, I share many of the points you make in your question. As you mentioned yourself, I had the opportunity, in an answer to a written question addressed to me by Mrs Fonck, to give a lot of information on the subject. The activities of the space sector are of great importance to Belgium, for many reasons. The sector has a significant turnover. There are many socio-economic benefits; of course I am thinking of creating direct and indirect jobs. The activities of the sector and their development are a showcase for the talents of our country and must allow us to promote abroad a certain Belgian expertise, in technological and innovative fields, which contributes to the international influence of our country. The government agreement supports the importance of this sector. I do not read you the whole government agreement, but just a passage that probably responds in part to your concern. It states that "the new body must ensure better coordination of space policy in Belgium and aim at an equitable distribution of the return on investment between the different regions. This office will co-ordinate the Belgian position at the international level while ensuring that the interests and needs of the various levels of power are taken into account." In view of all these elements and beyond the mere question of timing, the government's objective is above all to provide Belgium with a structure that allows for a more efficient and efficient mobilisation of the federal space resources, while adapting to the new space landscape. Thus the future space agency will have to consolidate the Belgian position on the international level but also, to the extent possible, strengthen or improve the Belgian position. In terms of timing, I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to table on the government table as soon as possible the texts for which preparation has progressed well and for which consultation has taken place. If some regional ministers feel that they have not been sufficiently consulted, I will ensure that they are able to communicate all their views on the texts that are being prepared. Finally, I also want to support my answer on elements that the Secretary of State had already given you on February 17, 2016 in response to your oral question. I will refer, in the document, to the reply that has been communicated. The federal government will examine in which cases and in what form we will be able to continue the dialogue with the various actors and, as in previous years, will make every effort to prepare for the next ministerial conference of the European Space Agency, which will take place this year on 1 and 2 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. As part of this response, I feel that we are still in a changing environment and that no decision is taken. You're talking about a showcase for talent, but companies are waiting to know where they're going to go and how things are going to happen. You mention the fact that you want coordination to be more effective and effective. More efficient and more efficient than what? Within the framework of the Space Agency, in Belgium, companies were satisfied with the operation and things were proceeding in a relevant way. As far as timing is concerned, you're telling me, "as soon as possible." I understand you're using this phrase so you don't get caught within a specific time frame. However, the ESA conference will take place on 1 and 2 December in Lucerne. Your answers seem to me hesitant. I understand that the consultation will be maintained, even if it is not present at the moment, as is evident from the remarks made by the federated entities. In short, I hear your answer, but it only partially satisfies me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u44	The combined questions Nos 12676 by Mrs Lanjri and 12908 by Mr Crusnière are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 12909 was postponed. I myself will ask my questions at the end of the sitting, out of respect for Mrs Onkelinx's presence as a group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u45	Prime Minister, thank you for staying longer so I can ask this question. Of course, we were all upset by the tragedy that took place on 22 March. You were right to organize a tribute ceremony with the Palace on 22 May. We received various testimonies from people who had not been invited and others who had not been invited early enough - or even invited after the ceremony - to go there. So it seems that there have been problems. These people are deeply injured not to be recognized as victims when they have paid a heavy toll on terrorist horror. It seems that you received a letter from some of these people who had not been answered a few days ago. Similarly, the Royal Palace would have been informed, but no reply would have been received either. The organization of such a national event, which is a symbol, cannot be achieved without the presence of the victims who have been hit in the front line by these attacks. If all this is proven, these people feel this as a lack of recognition, as a double penalty. After being victims of the tragedy, they feel a lack of consideration and see themselves as forgotten by the Nation. However, the identity of these persons and their status as victims of an attack are not unknown to the public authorities, as some have been heard by the judicial police and have declared themselves injured. In addition, it is true that support for accompaniment remains limited. This will be discussed again in the Committee of Inquiry. Prime Minister, what criteria were used to determine the victims invited to the ceremony? How did this ceremony go? How was the list of invited persons drawn up? Do you know if a meeting between the federal prosecutor and the victims is planned, as was the case in France? Can we not organize information sessions for victims, to tell them what they are entitled to in terms of financial, psychological and other assistance, even if I measure that jurisdiction is federal and other community? In this regard, it is necessary to unite to provide the best possible information and assistance. How many cases of victims have already been opened in the courts? What are your prospects for the future organization of this kind of tribute ceremonies? Even if I hope we will no longer have to organize them, which would mean that the country will no longer be the victim of attacks like this horror of 22 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u46	Dear colleague, a working group chaired by the Chancellery and involving all relevant actors worked to organize the ceremony to honour the victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016. These included the Interior, Foreign Affairs, Public Health, Defence, Mobility, Civil Protection, the Federal Police, the Federal Crisis Centre, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Brussels Capital Region. At my request, my services and the services of the Royal Palace invited all victims for whom an address had been communicated to them. The addresses were communicated, on the one hand by the SPF Public Health for injured victims, and on the other hand by the Public Prosecutor's Office for the families of deceased victims. This last point is important because the prosecutor's office took several weeks to provide us with the lists. We received these lists late because the prosecutor's office considered that, even in the government, it could not communicate them without the consent of the victims concerned in order to respect their wishes on this subject. This is one of the reasons for the difficulties encountered in sending invitations. In addition, His Majesty the King sent a message to the victims we knew when they were hospitalized at the time of this ceremony and therefore could not move. These invitations were sent with due regard to privacy legislation. Some families had expressed the wish not to be contacted by the authorities, which we obviously respected. In addition, it appeared that, in the days prior to the ceremony, hospitalized persons had been authorized to leave between the time the invitations were sent and the date of the ceremony. At the time of the ceremony, some of them appeared and were added to the list, but others did not appear and if they have meanwhile come out, they have passed through the meshes of the invitations, which I regret of course. I am aware that unfortunately not all the victims were present for various reasons. I am thinking of those who still receive care or those who remain silent, physically unharmed but marked for life. Not all of them have manifested themselves. Some were not to hospitals, were not directly physically injured, but were present at the scene of the tragedy and remain psychologically marked by this situation. Notwithstanding this reality, the will behind this ceremony was to be a rallyer and to address everyone without exception. In the same spirit, we ensured that the ceremony was broadcast widely by television channels, asking, out of respect for families, not to broadcast images of families. This was requested by most of them, but this led to some misinterpretations that some televisions were filming the official authorities and not family members. This was in line with the wishes of families who wanted their dignity to be taken into consideration. Finally, with regard to the letters you mention, to the best of my knowledge, the few letters I received were answered each time. I will check whether that is the case and, unless I am mistaken, in any case for me and for the mails that were partially addressed to me, there have been very few. With regard to more concrete support for victims, the federal government has decided to create a one-stop shop within the Victims Fund. The one-stop shop can be reached by means of a single telephone number which has been communicated, and a specific email address which has been set up. I assure you that I am in favour of holding information sessions so that a dynamic approach can be organized. Under the leadership of the Ministers of Social Affairs and Defence, a national recognition status was immediately developed. This status is comparable to that of war victims and guarantees emergency assistance to Belgian victims of terrorist acts. Pending national recognition status, the injured and their relatives are eligible for emergency financial assistance through the Victims' Fund. The government has also decided to increase the ceilings for emergency financial assistance from EUR 15 000 to EUR 30 000 and the ceilings for the main financial assistance from EUR 62 000 to EUR 125 000. This applies to both physical and psychological damage. As at 1 June, 175 applications had already been submitted for financial assistance from the Victims' Fund; 59 emergency aid had been granted, for a cumulative total of almost EUR 500 000. All relevant information will of course be available on the Justice FPS website. People who have questions about psychological support or about topics such as insurance, incapacity for work, disability can also find information via the website of the Crisis Centre and through the website of the Federal Public Social Security Services, such as a specific brochure Terrorist Attacks: and after? intended for all victims of attacks, whether direct or indirect. As I say, I repeat, the federal government is and remains determined to do everything possible to help Belgian and foreign victims. We have, I think, acted as best we can immediately, and we will continue to be very vigilant on this issue in the coming months. We also worked with the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs to promptly inform all embassies so that they could provide useful assistance to their nationals. I conclude by saying that I and my services are of course available to the victims, as well as to all citizens, for any information they wish to obtain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u47	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and I am of course convinced of your goodwill. I have read the example of a person who was operated on, who left the hospital on 14 May, who was legally identified, but who was not invited. So it doesn't exactly match the examples you've given. This person wrote to your email address, charles.michel@première.fed.be but did not get an answer. She got a lawyer. More generally, with regard to the status of victims, I propose that you send your response to the concerned persons and provide you with the addresses available to me. I do not doubt the will of the government and ours to do as much as possible for those victims who feel, rightly or wrongly, abandoned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u48	Prime Minister, the remaining questions on the agenda are my five merged questions. My first question concerns the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB), which is now operational for about a year. On your advice, Miguel de Bruycker, the director of the centre, gave a presentation on the objectives and his vision in our committee. Ten people were supposed to be employed. We were assured that recruitment would also take place, but administrative selection procedures must be respected. An envelope of EUR 200 million was agreed to finance specific projects. The Centre would also organise awareness raising and supporting information for home and working groups. Partnerships and reliable technology are also added to this for business. There was also talk of taking care of the vital sectors, on which Mr Buysrogge already asked a question, including an early warning system and an incident response, with certain areas of work that would be addressed as soon as possible. Cyber security is now somewhat out of the picture and is no longer at the top of the political agenda because of the fight against terrorism, but of course it still requires great attention from our policies. I refer to the Confederation of Belgian Enterprises, which clearly states that cybersecurity is one of the most important challenges for our country. Mr Prime Minister, can you give me an update on the projects that have been launched by the CCB so far? How many projects have effectively been fully rolled out? How much of the allocated investment budget has been used? Is the workforce now fully filled out, or are there any functions left open? Which projects are currently under way and what is the timing for the upcoming projects? Will a website be set up so that stakeholders can communicate in a transparent way? My second question concerns the early warning system for the vital sectors I have just spoken about. In March 2009, an information network against terrorist threats formally took action in Belgium. Companies and public administrations work together in the framework of a PPP structure and exchange information through a fixed procedure. For this purpose, a protocol agreement has been concluded between the government, represented by Justice and Home Affairs, and the private sector, represented by the Federation of Belgian Enterprises. I just talked about the early warning system. To what extent is the early warning system of the CCB contained in the early warning system that has existed since 2009 or is it a totally different early warning system? Is the CCB's early warning system now operational? What is the cost of that? What is the relationship between the two early warning systems? My third question concerns the integration of CERT.be into the CCB. I myself have repeatedly stressed in committee, among other things, that a coordinating body should be set up. Among others, the CERT.be, the CCUS, belnet, the BIPT, FEDict and bellnis would be involved. When we look at the core tasks of CERT.be, it is striking that there are many similarities with those of the CCB. The CERT.be also takes on a coordinating role in cybersecurity incidents, will also advise companies to find a solution when incidents occur and should also assist companies to prevent security incidents. At a written question to you on 2 December, Prime Minister, you replied that the CCB of the FPS Information and Communication Technology took over the management of the CERT.be for the detection, observation and analysis of online security problems. In addition, the tasks and actions of the CERT.be would be determined from 2016 in close consultation with the CCB's responsible. At that time, I noticed that Beltug, a Belgian advocacy organisation with more than 1 200 technology companies, had included in its election memo that the budget for cybersecurity is too fragmented, in the sense that there were too many sub-initiatives and actors, which would make the operation counter-productive. Hence my questions about the CERT.be. Firstly, is the management of the CERT.be entirely in the hands of the CCB or not? What action should be taken? Can you tell me a timeline? Secondly, how many people are currently working for the CERT.be? When will they be under the authority of the CCB? Thirdly, how much was the CERT.be budget in 2015? I liked to get a split between wages and assets. Fourthly, do you agree with the CCB that the budget for cybersecurity is too fragmented? How can we group more cases? My penultimate question concerns cybersecurity in general practitioners and pharmacists as part of vital sectors. We have identified the three target groups with the CCB, namely at home, at work and vital infrastructures including critical infrastructure. According to the CCB, the vital sectors must be identified, including hospitals. There is, of course, a major threat to hospitals, because there is quite a lot of medical data collected there, which would have great value on the black market. In a number of other countries there have already been cases where hospitals were held hostage by so-called ransomware. However, we must not confine ourselves to hospitals, but we must broaden matters and look at the relationship with general practitioners and pharmacists. They also increasingly exchange information online with each other. The classic doctor's note with which one goes to the pharmacist disappears and is replaced by vulnerable online systems. There is a data protection act, which was launched by the European Commission. A first 1995 Directive should provide a higher standard for the protection of personal data. However, hospitals, doctors and pharmacists are also working more and more digitally. How can we guarantee the challenge of protecting personal medical data in the future? Is there a plan to include pharmacists and general practitioners in the vital sectors? Are there measures in place to better protect pharmacists and general practitioners from cybercrime? Hospitals have been one of the vital sectors for several months now. Have cyber incidents been reported to hospitals since then? Which one would they be? My final question concerns the reporting of cyber incidents. Society is connected by electronics. Once an electronic system fails, we're vulnerable. For example, it was only a small problem, but in the attacks of 22 March 2016, the mobile network dropped. That already showed how vulnerable we are at those points. As individuals increasingly share and store sensitive information with the Internet, and as SMEs also process sensitive information, there has been a build-up of intertwined information. There is also a risk of a cascade effect when things leak. A report of a serious ICT breach in an SME with sensitive information would be good. On the one hand, the impact of such infringements can be assessed in good time, and on the other hand, it can be considered how social disruption resulting from ICT infringements can be avoided. We believe that notifications could enable the CERT.be and the CCB to better assist, assist and anticipate possible wider effects of such ICT breaches. Today, SMEs are increasingly in touch with each other and often co-ordinate activities. I am convinced that reporting is not only justified; it would even be very good, because society has become so dependent on electronic information systems. In the Netherlands there is already a reporting obligation for providers of vital products or services in the sectors of electricity, gas and drinking water, among others. There it has been found that the action of the Dutch counterpart of the CCB in the event of incidents and vulnerabilities of vital systems could prevent social disruption. The question is therefore how we can extend this to SMEs that work with vital personal data. That is why I asked to what extent not only hospitals, but also general practitioners and pharmacists would fit in. I note that several SMEs do not dare to report a cyber incident to the CERT.be because they fear to become known to the outside world for any errors that might cause image damage to the company concerned. Therefore, if the reporting obligation is extended, it would be a good thing that the CERT.be and the CCB should be subject to confidentiality, so that, on the one hand, facts do not expand and, on the other hand, the companies concerned are not harmed. Do you believe that reporting to SMEs in Belgium could be a useful policy tool? Has anyone looked up any information on that? Have there been any contacts with other agencies? Is there a specific legal basis to ensure the confidentiality of confidential information provided to CERT.be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u49	Firstly, the CCB has its own envelope and staff plan for the performance of its tasks. There are currently nine staff members, one director, one deputy director, one communication manager, one legally responsible, three project managers and two secretaries. The recruitment of a person responsible for the definition and dissemination of standards and good practice is under way, depending on the different target audiences. Secondly, as regards the means for the execution of the contracts, the CCB relies on the administrative and logistical support of the FPS Kanselarij of the Prime Minister. This year, the CCB launched approximately €8.5 million of projects. The CCB was able to start its work on 17 August 2015 with the arrival of the Director and Deputy Director. During the first six months, it focused on the organisation of staff recruitment, the preparation of strategic and operational plans, the identification of CERT.be's priorities, the support of different platforms and partnerships, the start-up of partnerships with neighbouring cybersecurity agencies, the contact with the various institutional players involved in cybersecurity in Belgium and the determination of the Belgian cybersecurity landscape, the definition of the future cybersecurity landscape in Belgium and the preparation of an emergency plan in the case of cyber incidents. We are working on several projects with three specific target groups: firstly, the population; secondly, the enterprises; thirdly, the vital sectors, such as the government's critical infrastructures and key systems. In the following months, an information website will be available to our different target audiences via the interface of the existing website safeonweb. Several projects have now been launched. Some projects will be implemented in the coming months. An anti-DDoS solution will be installed on FedMAN; the adoption of the cyber crisis plan has been completed; the specifications of the earlywarning system will be published very soon; a tool for risk analysis and management cell will be tested from September at certain government institutions, in collaboration with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Furthermore, at the end of this year, a tool for information exchange in the event of cyber crisis, developed in cooperation with the Crisis Centre, will be tested and the improvement of technical and cyber expertise will be encouraged in public institutions through the provision of a training catalogue. The implementation of the earlywarning system also involves the provision of a platform for fully secure information exchange with the vital sectors. Secondly, the earlywarning system. The specifications of the project will be published very soon. The contract should be awarded this year. The earlywarning system should be operational in the course of 2017. The initial investment budget is approximately EUR 1 million for 2017 and for the following years. The CCB's earlywarning system makes it possible to spread information about threats, vulnerabilities and incidents to the operators of vital systems in our country. The system allows operators to detect or protect cyber attacks faster and automatically by taking preventive measures. The crisis centre also uses a rapid warning system for businesses. The latter covers the information of the crises in a general way and allows companies to report specific threats to the government and for the government to disseminate information to the critical infrastructure. We need to find good cooperation between both systems. In accordance with the law of 3 June 2005 on electronic communications, companies providing public communications networks or publicly available electronic communications services should immediately notify BIPT of any breach of security or loss of integrity that has a significant impact on the operation of networks or services. The European Directive laying down measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the Union provides that, firstly, operators of essential services should report incidents with a significant impact on the continuity of the essential services they provide; secondly, digital service providers should report any incident that has a significant impact on the provision of their services. Belgian policy on incident notification is currently being discussed and defined with our neighbouring countries and in a European framework with the cooperation group between the Member States set up by the directive. The main national security services concerned come together in different working groups, coordinated by the CCB, which aim to transpose the Directive into Belgian law within the prescribed time limit of 21 months. The CCB has also brought together all sectorial authorities of the essential infrastructure in a permanent platform of information exchange to discuss cyber security in all sectors. As far as health professionals are concerned, I would ask you to address your questions to the Minister for Health, who is responsible for this. The health sector is included in the list of vital sectors in our country. However, it is up to the competent authorities to determine which infrastructure is vital and therefore needs additional protection. If the hospital institutions are recognised as vital infrastructure, they will therefore be eligible for the specific guidelines and information from the CCB. The health sector is also subject to reporting obligations, as provided for in the NIS Directives. This brings me to your questions about CERT.be. According to the Royal Decree of 10 October 2014 establishing a Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, the management of the computer emergency response team will henceforth be assigned to the CCB. Currently, the services of CERT.be are provided by belnet, which depends on the Science Policy FPS. The management rules of the CCB are thus delivered to CERT.be via belnet. Belnet also receives a donation of EUR 1 million for the management of the CERT.be in 2016. As a logical consequence of the implementation of the Royal Decree of 10 October 2014, a reflection exercise is currently underway on the opportunity to entrust the management of the CERT.be directly to the CCB. The CCB has prepared a proposal to strengthen CERT.be and adapt its services to current threats and needs. This plan will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers. With regard to the confidentiality of the information provided to CERT.be, it is recalled that the Act of 11 April 1994 on the disclosure of administrative information allows the principle of public access to be subordinated to the protection of public policy, national security or defence, or the confidential nature of the business and manufacturing information communicated to the public authorities. CERT.be may therefore invoke these grounds for refusing a request for consultation, clarification or communication in the form of a copy of their administrative documents. Article 10 of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 laying down the Staff Regulations does not require federal officials to disclose facts relating to national security, the protection of public policy, the financial interests of the public authorities, the rights and freedoms of citizens or any other facts which, when disclosed, may harm the interests of the public service in which the official is employed. The budgets for cybersecurity. The CCB shall coordinate the projects with an interdepartmental scope or with a target audience of several participants identified by the CCB. In this context, when a department intends to use the interdepartmental cyber commission for a cybersecurity-related project, the CCB is consulted and asked to provide an opinion. The budget for cybersecurity is therefore being managed more and more centrally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-05-54-commissie-ic463x.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Rome was not built in one day and you know that the chairman of my party is a great lover of Rome. I have every confidence in Mr de Bruycker's abilities, knowledge and commitment. I can only say that we are lagging a long way behind the neighbouring countries. I've visited a number of cybersecurity settings in the surrounding countries. As far as legislation is concerned, too, we are somewhat behind schedule. However, I see that the pace remains constant, despite many other challenges. There are also clear results. That's very important to me. I see a very big difference between what you are doing now and what was done by your predecessor, Mr Di Rupo, when many things were announced on this subject but nothing really happened.
