ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u1	Minister, last January, the Brussels government adopted the final version of the master plan for the district of the Midi railway station. This redevelopment, which includes housing, offices and places of life, is fundamental to the revitalization of this area, which is the international railway gateway to Brussels. In particular, this redevelopment involves rationalizing the SNCB offices that are currently dispersed in the neighbourhood. However, the file appears to be completely at a standstill. In question, the persistent blocking of SNCB with regard to the demolition of the islet France-Bara. The stakes surrounding the Midi pole go well beyond the communes of Saint-Gilles and Anderlecht. This is indeed a regional, international and imageal issue in Brussels. We can no longer postpone this redevelopment indefinitely. Minister, my questions are as follows. The dialogue between the federal, the Region and the SNCB must be intensified in order to find concrete solutions. As the appropriate minister, it is up to you, in particular, to put SNCB in front of its responsibilities and to encourage it to move forward in the interests of the Midi district but also of Brussels in its generality. Can you inform us about the status of the case? Is SNCB finally ready to act in the general interest? If not, what are the solutions you are considering in order to unblock the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u2	Mrs Lalieux, as you rightly point out, SNCB's central services are housed in various buildings located on the outskirts of the Brussels-Midi station. This total is a large area of space. Some of these buildings are still in good condition, while others are much less. SNCB informs me that it is not obvious for it to find suitable premises in the short term or to be able to build them in order to relocate its services there. This requires considerable investment. An in-depth study of possible alternatives and the financial impact of each of these alternatives is required. In this respect, the outline is of course taken into account. SNCB has started this study but specifies that it may continue for a while. Discussions have already been conducted by SNCB with federal and regional authorities. I would add that I have had the opportunity to meet with both the minister-president and the mayors of the neighbouring communes concerned, who have expressed to me both their concern but also their expectations and the prospects for the development of this district. We are very attentive to it. A meeting with the regional authorities will be held in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u3	Thank you, Minister. There is a need for accelerated meetings. The layout of the Midi train station is the oldest file concerning the layouts of the train stations. "That's right," the minister told me. It's a case where the neighborhood was razed and its citizens moved to build an international station. SNCB has never made any effort to refurbish the entire neighbourhood. It was a strong demand to also develop the Midi station, which is still Belgium's largest railway station and where international trains arrive. I would simply like you, minister, to speed up the process. I don't often accuse SNCB. But in this case, SNCB is of bad will. There are possibilities for rehousing in Brussels. A blueprint has been drawn up, but the will of the Brussels government, the Brussels Parliament, and therefore of regional democracy must be respected by the SNCB. SNCB must not make real estate, it must take care of its core business, that is to say, rolling trains and ensuring that this station and this neighborhood can live. The image of Brussels is disastrous when tourists arrive at the Midi station, which is not at all equipped. At this rate, the station and the neighbourhood will not be built for long months or years. I'm counting on you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u4	I'd like to get involved, but first we'd need everyone to know what they want in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u5	Madam President, Minister, an incident occurred on Thursday, 15 September 2016, during which the use of Belgian airspace had to be restricted for a few hours. A new technical failure, in terms of a network of communication with the structures located in the east of the country and managed by a subcontractor (a Siemens subsidiary) reduced Belgocontrol's capacity. Disruptions were recorded at Brussels and Charleroi airports. At 2.30 p.m. on that same day, Belgocontrol had identified 133 affected aircraft (delayed or cancelled flights) and announced that it had recovered 90% of its capabilities. The return to normal was declared at about 6:00 p.m. At Belgocontrol, it is explained that the technical problem causing the breakdown is in a network that has limited the transfer of computer data between the Steenokkerzeel parent company and some airports and aerodromes. This limitation affected both overflight and landing and take-off aircraft. The number of frequencies with which the control tower could communicate was greatly reduced. Unfortunately, this is not the first problem the air traffic controller has encountered in recent months. It can even be considered that there is an accumulation of technical failures and difficulties. We will remember the huge electrical breakdown which, in May 2015, forced Belgocontrol to shut down purely and simply the airspace over Belgium for several hours. The problem then concerned the start of emergency generators which had caused a breakdown paralyzing all the systems. Each time, Belgocontrol announced the order for a precise study of the circumstances and ensured that it had adapted the procedures or equipment in order to avoid any new problems. Minister, do you confirm the explanation given by Belgocontrol about the origin of the September 15, 2016 breakdown? When such computer failures occur, can we not imagine a backup system that can take over for a few hours? Do you confirm that the fault is on the subcontractor's side? If so, have compensation procedures been initiated? Who will compensate the airlines who file a complaint? What actions will Belgocontrol take to avoid this kind of problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u6	Madam Chair, Minister, I will not go back to the circumstances that my colleague has just described. These successions of technical failures are worrying and erode the confidence of operators and users who use Belgocontrol's services. I would therefore like to ask you three questions. First, what is the exact nature of the latter breakdown? Could the internal investigation reveal all its contours? Secondly, what steps have you taken to ensure that this does not happen again? Finally, I would like to point out that these are technical failures and not malicious acts. What safety measures are in place to prevent ill-intentioned persons from entering the system with a view to disrupting national and European air traffic?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgocontrol long distance computer network One is used for data transfer between the Belgocontrol CANAC centre in Steenokkerzeel and the various airports and technical installations in the territory. The southern part of this network showed signs of failure on 15 September at about six o'clock in the morning, affecting the transfer of data between the CANAC centre and the airports of Liège and Charleroi, as well as the sites of Saint-Hubert, Spa and Florennes. These are used in particular for ground-to-air communication via radio antennas. Due to this technical problem, and in order to ensure aviation safety, capacity restrictions have been introduced in part of national airspace. The Belgocontrol network is in principle designed to deal with possible cuts. In this case, equipment on the network resulted in disruptions and partial desynchronization. This part of the network had to be isolated before it was phased back into service during the day. Analyses are still under way to determine the exact cause of the disturbances. It is therefore too early to determine responsibilities. Belgocontrol immediately took short-term corrective action with its suppliers to strengthen the network's resilience, particularly for critical services. In addition, the organization has started a programme to modernize and strengthen its technical systems for the next five years, amounting to €98 million. The total replacement of the IT network is foreseen in this investment programme, with a new, more robust architecture and enhanced collaboration with specialized companies. The security of facilities and cybersecurity of computer networks are obviously a priority for Belgocontrol. Various measures have already been taken and will continue to be taken to strengthen these two aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I understand that it is too early to determine exactly the responsibilities. I imagine that we will come back to the issue because, depending on the liability, it will be necessary to determine the possible damages or, in any case, the chain of damages that will be triggered. I take note of the action plan you are talking about and the investments that have recently been announced in the press. It will be interesting to come back to this case anyway. Let's hope these chain failures don't happen again. But, so far, this situation is truly challenging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for this technical clarification. With regard to this modernisation programme, which you confirm, I am pleased that these million euros are being invested in the reliability and robustness of the network. I believe, like all operators and users, that this is crucial for the trust we have in the institution. As you said, the aspects of cybersecurity will not be neglected. It is important to be able to cope with this growing threat that hangs us in the nose at every moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u10	Minister, I recall that a few months ago you brought me a book containing all the articles that had been published following the appointment of the former CEO of SNCB. In this government period there are not so many. However, I invite you to keep track of all the articles. For your sake, I hope the book won't get so thick. I read in Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen that the N-VA group says it prefers a French-speaking one rather than a CD &amp; DVD. Mr Van den Bergh, I do not know if you have read the article, but if I may believe that title, the atmosphere is good. You will have noticed, Minister, that it is mainly the opposition who has put questions about this. If Mr Van den Bergh had read that title yesterday, he might have been able to join. Minister, I have already told you that, as far as I am concerned, the most important criterion for choosing the CEO must be competence, not the language role of the candidate. I believe that too, whether I am in the majority or the opposition. You know me long enough to know that I think it is high time that people in that company were not appointed on the basis of their party card but simply on the basis of their ability. At the time I did not know which party card Mr Cornu had, even though he came out of Mr Vande Lanotte's pocketbook. Apparently, he was from the People's Union. Not for me, but it's important for the company, the employees and the travelers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u12	But not in the meantime with the French speakers, that you want to have a French speaking now? Mr Minister, I have a few questions on this, in addition to the concerns I expressed a short time ago for the fellow Members of the N-VA and for CD&V. What is the state of play now? When do you plan to land with the file? Do the names we read in the paper make sense? Will the ceiling be maintained or will there be extra dressings? Important for the company as well as for the government, what timing do you think you can put forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u13	Madam President, it is surprising to see in the press that the N-VA wanted a Francophone. Today, for the N-VA, being CD&V is worse than being Francophone! [[Laughs]] Minister, on October 14, 2016, an OCE was to be appointed and I assume that it was the crisis within the government that did not allow for one. The people who come out come from Electrabel, G4S Belgium, from the private sector. They are therefore external to SNCB. I wonder if this is not regrettable because it is not better to have as CEO someone who knows the house, who knows the materials, who knows the company's staff, who knows the transportation issues? This is not the first time this kind of choice has been made, it is almost a tradition. Why are we choosing someone who, a priori, has no particular knowledge of SNCB or the transport sector? What are the criteria used for the appointment of this new CEO? Do you pay attention to this potential CEO's vision of modern public transportation? What is the weight of the new CEO's knowledge criterion on transport issues and future projects such as the RSP? Have staff or staff representatives been asked for their views on this recruitment, as well as on the views of users' representatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u14	Minister, I'm not going to ask you who the next CEO will be because you're a discreet man. However, I would like to express my concern. It is true that Mr Cornu has been demobilized for a long time, given his departure. However, there are urgent issues to be resolved within the SNCB – the management contract, the multi-year investment plan... These issues should have been resolved for a long time. It is known that the coming of the managing director may trigger a musical chair that could destabilize other companies and alter the boards of directors, which are waiting for members designated by the Regions. So I think it's urgent. My question was also about what criteria and methodology the new CEO will be appointed by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u15	Colleagues, the appointment of the CEO of SNCB is a matter that has attracted my full attention since May and especially over the last three months. At the end of July, I received a mandate from Kern to search for the best candidate for the position of CEO of SNCB. I probably don't have to explain to you the issues that SNCB has to deal with, and therefore the importance of having the most appropriate person at the head of this public enterprise. To achieve this result, I used a head hunter, designated by public procurement, who was himself chosen after a procedure that brought several head hunters' cabinets into competition. The firm that was entrusted with the mission is Odgers Berndtson. The latter decomposed his task into four steps. The first step is an information phase that involves defining selection criteria based on the function profile and communicating through appropriate channels on opening the position. A second step is the solicitation phase, which aims to search for all potential candidates and thus establish what they call a long list. This list is an internal document in the recruiting firm and it is not communicated, not even to the minister I am. The third step is the selection phase. The headhunters' office analysed the applications files with screening of the CVs, followed by various interviews with the candidates who were identified. Next, the best candidates received a LeaderFit TM assessment to determine whether candidates are familiar with finance, personnel management and all the necessary criteria used to recruit CEOs in all companies, whether private or public. This makes it possible to objectify the choice. If a professional head hunter is employed in the area, he must work according to the methods duly validated in-house. Based on the results of these stages, the recruitment firm Odgers Berndtson has prepared a short list with great professionalism and discretion, both from my firm and from themselves. This is the fourth step in the process. The shortlist is ready, but has not yet been communicated to the nuclear cabinet because of the budgetary work. For the names that go around in the press until today, the journalists are responsible. At this stage, I won't release any names. In fact, I told journalists who put all kinds of names and call us to try to find out who it is: "Go to my office, we have prepared a sheet. If the name you mention is incorrect, you will give me your house." Of course, there is none that has passed! It is still an important position for Belgian mobility. To answer your pay question, the directive given to the head hunter was to look for the best candidate. The question of wages was settled by the previous government. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have no doubt whatsoever about the professionalism of the selection procedure that this agency has delivered. As a minister, you have a shortlist and it is questionable whether you will be able to keep that list as a competent minister on the basis of objective criteria when a political decision is to be taken. For the sake of clarity, I repeat that I do not doubt the composition of the list on the basis of objective criteria. I can only read the newspapers in this. Perhaps you should participate in the cow business, which we are reading now, whether or not with the names that are circulating now. I imagine there's a cow business going on right now, where pawns are being moved, just to please the pawns or to definitely not give anyone else anything. That was the story I was just talking about. This is also my sincere concern: whoever it will be, I hope it will be the best candidate. I hope you will be able to stand above that cow business we read today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u17	Minister, thank you for not answering my questions. Indeed, I asked you whether it was possible to find someone in-house who knew about transportation matters, staff and unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u18	I'll answer you exactly. The head hunter contacted many people. I know some in-house people have been contacted, because they told me. Contacts have taken place, but I do not have the contact list. What is the way to work with headhunters? They try, through press articles, spontaneous applications (there have been) and their own files, to find out which people might be suitable. The task of headhunters is to complete all these steps that I told you about, but these professionals never communicate to their sponsors the names of all the people contacted, and this for a very simple reason. The person who has been contacted and who may agree may have two attitudes. It may not be appropriate and may not satisfy the tests. And she might agree, but wish to stay in the job she occupies. One thing is certain: she may not want to leave her job, but she may not want her employer to know that she is applying elsewhere. So it's a common practice for headhunters. They have already intervened for other large public companies and have explained this to me. The chairman of the board of directors of another company had explained this to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u19	I note that internal selection was not excluded and that the track was even explored. I'm still a little hungry by your criteria. Finance and personnel management are important, but what is the weight of knowledge in the transport sector? I did not have an answer on this and I would have liked to know more about the criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u20	Minister, we are therefore looking forward to it. It is mainly the railway workers and the workers who are waiting for a CEO and a CA in order to walk. I'm sure you too. Parliament is waiting for you to discuss the management contract, the IPP and the transport plan with the new nominees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u21	Madam President, Minister, a few months ago, I asked your predecessor about the collaboration between SNCB staff and the police on migrants at railway stations, particularly on the coast. Indeed, following the dismantling of part of the jungle of Calais last February, many migrants had taken refuge on the Belgian coast, particularly in railway stations. For example, I was told that it was the duty of the Corporate Security Service to assist errant persons in contacting the appropriate help services. Minister, what was the situation at the stations on the Belgian coast this summer? Did SNCB experience any problems with the presence of migrant groups in Belgian railway stations this summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u22	Dear colleague, on the situation at coastal stations, SNCB has received reports on the presence of asylum seekers, mainly for the stations of Veurne and De Panne. People were reported in the vicinity of these stations very early in the morning to get to Calais and to England. However, these groups of people were not present every day and were generally in possession of a valid transport document. This public does not cause a specific safety problem. However, it sometimes leads to a sense of insecurity among SNCB staff and clients as well as residents. Belgium, like the rest of Europe, has been subject to a flow of migrants for more than a year. Many of these people travel by train. Their presence is regularly observed, particularly in trains from Germany to Brussels and the coast and in coastal and border stations with France. They are usually people of transit, transmigrants who try to reach England. However, a certain percentage would like to apply to the Belgian authorities for asylum. In this context and in order to avoid unnecessary interventions and delays, SNCB informs me that it has established procedures for moving to Fedasil and reception centres when these populations are intercepted both on trains and at stations, always in close cooperation with local authorities, including local police. SNCB states that it does not find a problem of objective insecurity directly related to the presence of these people on trains and stations outside of the feeling of insecurity that it could lead to. She adds that she tries to manage this phenomenon in a humane manner and with all the empathy she deserves, while ensuring that safety in the rail sector is maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u23	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I wanted to take stock of the situation after the leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u24	Madam President, Minister, in the spring Thalys launched her new fare offer, the Izy formula, which allows you to connect Brussels to Paris in two hours for an advantageous price, starting from 10 euros one way. This formula meets the demand of travellers and allows less affluent people to travel to Paris at an affordable price and in a short time. Minister, has the summer been successful with this new formula? Can you already draw any conclusions and take stock of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u25	Mrs. Cassart-Milleux, I'm going to disappoint you. International supply is an unsubsidized commercial supply that is not part of public service missions and operates in a context of market liberalization. I am therefore unable to answer this question because I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u26	There's no problem, minister. You give me a correct answer, the one you have to give me. So I'll stay on my hunger. There's nothing to worry about. I'm not going to die because I don't have the conclusion. I like to be able to evaluate the new offers in order to realize their relevance. If we can't do it, there's no problem. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, who all visibly read Le Soir, Minister, on September 14, you received a copy of a letter from the Community of European Railway and Infrastructure Companies (CER) to the Prime Minister. In its letter, the association of European railway companies expresses its many fears about the ambitions of your colleague in charge of the Interior to include international rail transport in the future Belgian PNR (Passenger Name Record) system, which will be discussed this Friday in the Committee on the Interior. It refers to the totally disproportionate nature of this measure when it comes to transnational trains, given the number of passengers travelling daily in Europe. The ERC stresses the extremely complex (end of last-minute tickets) and costly nature of the implementation of such a system, which would further reduce the attractiveness of the train compared to the use of the individual vehicle. The letter also emphasises the security absurdity of imposing a PNR for transnational trains, knowing that there are a multitude of ways other than these specific trains to reach or leave Belgium from the Schengen area. The REB states that persons representing a danger or threat, with falsified identity papers or dangerous individuals unknown to the security services will not be intercepted through a PNR system. Hence, minister, my four questions. Has the PNR project of the Minister of the Interior been the subject of extensive consultation between your services and those of the Home SPF? Have one or more members of the Mobility FPS been invited to draft the two successive draft laws already presented to the government in December 2015 and April 2016? Following the missed Thalys attack, a study was commissioned by the European Commission on the safety measures to be taken in the rail sector to combat terrorism effectively – and throughout the continent. Its conclusions are expected by the end of this year. Will you ask the Minister of the Interior to wait for the findings of this study before resubmitting a new PNR bill? This issue dates back to the government's submission and emergency request last Thursday. The Deutsche Bahn (DB) seems particularly concerned about the potential impact of your PNR project on the viability of its ICE trains linking Belgium to Germany. Have you had any contact with your counterpart, the German Minister of Transport, on this issue? If so, when? Did you reassure him? In what terms? In general, how do you appreciate the potentially negative impact of a PNR system applied to international rail traffic in terms of your competence, namely mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u28	Minister, as part of the fight against organised crime and terrorism, all carriers and tour operators in all transport sectors will be forced to transmit the data they have on their passengers. The Belgian Government has therefore decided alone to go further than the European directive, which is aimed only at air transport. The preliminary draft law for the processing of passenger data which has been tabled in Parliament raises broad concerns on the part of the European Commission, railway operators and passenger associations. It was, moreover, by the latter that I was informed of the situation and not by going through Le Soir, Mr Hellings. But I'm coming back to my point. The concern arises from the fact that operators will be obliged to collect information from all passengers 24 hours in advance, including for round trips within the same day, which will certainly not fail to weaken the train a little further in favour of the car. If we look at the transport service rather than the fight against terrorism, the NRP, as Minister Jambon wants, could most certainly be seen by the European Commission as a major obstacle to cross-border transport. Indeed, there is concern that the introduction of the NRP will have a profound impact on Thalys and ICE services. Moreover, DB shares our concerns because it has just announced its willingness to remove the ICE link, if the PNR was actually applicable. After the removal of Thalys Wallon, these threats are not to be taken lightly. They would further deprive our country of quality cross-border connections for the benefit of the car. If Minister Jambon is overly confident about the relevance of the application of his project to the rail sector, I cannot believe that this is also your case. The fight against terrorism cannot be the only one to be considered in this case, which is a major issue in terms of mobility and international relations. This morning we received a Swiss delegation to the External Relations Committee. She strongly advocated this axis between Switzerland and Belgium, which has been somewhat detrigued - today it is no longer possible without breaking charges. I would like to stress the importance of this international mobility. Minister, has the Mobility firm been consulted by Minister Jambon regarding the potential impact of the NRP on mobility and the risks it would entail in terms of deteriorating supply and travel conditions? Have you told him that such a system is of little use in rail transport? If not, do you intend to work together with the Minister of the Interior to return to a more realistic proposal that could satisfy both passengers and railway operators? In this context, are you in contact with DB and Thalys in order to identify concrete solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u29	The draft law is, of course, well known; it has now been submitted to Parliament. I'll be brief. In my view, the main concern is that the train, in this case the international train, remains an accessible means of transport without too many obstacles to competition with road and air transport. Safety is, of course, important, but if we make it so difficult for the traveller that he suffers a lot of nuisance and opts for another means of transport, we may also move the risk derivatives. For example, when a nuisance system is introduced on the international express train between Brussels and Amsterdam, we may get a shift of passengers to the road or to the classic Benelux train, which would not be covered by the scheme. Then the risks on that train may increase again. I think we need to look at the implications for the train traveller here. The attractiveness of rail transport is an important concern in the draft law. That is why my question is very general: how can we ensure that the train remains sufficiently attractive with the proposed legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u30	Minister, we are not going to have a debate here on how to fight terrorism. This type of large-scale intelligence gathering poses more problems than it solves because, as some of your government colleagues say, we are currently unable to process all the information. In this context, extending the NRP to travel by train or bus, in maritime transport, is a fairly large drift. Indeed, colleagues cited the reaction of the ERC or Deutsche Bahn to the problems that the introduction of this law poses. What do you think of the ERC's appeal and the Deutsche Bahn? Have you discussed this project with your government colleagues? Are you not considering amending this law? Don't you think that would really be necessary? Have you been aware of complaints from bus and ferry operators in this area? Are there other Member States that are taking initiatives to introduce this kind of obligation at rail and bus level? What is your estimate of the costs and other administrative burdens that this may involve? Have you estimated the negative impact on rail transport? Have you sought the views of human rights organisations on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u31	Colleagues, the aim of the draft law is to transpose the European directive regulating the use of passenger record data, in particular PNR, for the prevention and detection of serious forms of crime and terrorist offences or for the investigation and prosecution of such offences. This project, on the initiative of my colleague from the Interior, goes beyond, as you pointed out, the mere framework of this directive and applies both to the air sector and to the rail sector, to buses and to travel operators. Following the Thalys incident of August 2015, it was found that the processing of passenger data is necessary not only for air traffic but also for rail traffic. The draft law on PNR or Passenger Name Record is measure 9 of 18 measures in the fight against terrorism announced by the federal government at the plenary session of the Chamber of 19 November 2015 for both air and rail traffic. Although the scope of the EU Directive for the processing of passenger data is currently limited to air traffic, it explicitly allows the possibility to extend its scope. This is an indication that enlargement is also envisaged at EU level. Considerant number 33 of the PNR Directive explicitly provides that Member States may establish a PNR system for non-air carriers or other carriers. Belgium has indeed opted for enlargement, because it implies great efficiency. It is therefore intended to meet security requirements, while taking into account government priorities in terms of mobility. In answer to your questions, this project determines the obligations of carriers and travel operators to transmit the passenger data available to these operators – and I insist that these operators have at their disposal – either from or to our territory or transiting through it. This system is intended to apply only to international high-speed trains. The entry into force of these rules applied to the railway sector will take place only after the publication of the Royal Implementing Order describing the practical arrangements with regard to the particularities of the railway sector, which is evolving in an open environment, in contrast to the closed air sector. It is not necessary to wait for the results of the European Commission's study on security measures to move forward on this issue, since a very large number of aspects will only be discussed during the preparation of the Royal Implementing Order. As part of the preparation of this work, I have taken note of many concerns, including those of certain rail transport operators and the European Railway Community. I will not fail to relay them again during the discussions on the royal decrees. I have already raised these concerns and mine during the discussions around this bill. It is clear that the drafting of these royal decrees will ensure that the principles of relevance, proportionality and equal treatment between all Belgian and foreign transport operators operating in the various modes of transport are respected by law. These principles have already been discussed during the drafting of the law and will be at the heart of the drafting of the royal decree. It is my intention to work with the Minister of the Interior to draft this royal decree, which will be the subject of a consultation of the sector, especially operators of international lines such as Thalys or DB, but also SNCF and Eurostar. The establishment of a PNR database and a specific service capable of processing the data involves a certain investment. The costs for this are mainly borne by the government, in particular for the provision of IT infrastructure and the setting up of the passenger database, the establishment, functionalisation and manning of the passenger information unit. Transporters must also contribute to meeting the obligations. Once the obligations of both the authorities and carriers are specified in royal decrees, the costs that depend on them can be identified. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2015, the Belgian Government already committed itself to allowing the necessary appropriations for the start-up of the processing of PNR. These costs should be borne anyway, as the EU directive obliges each Member State to develop a PIU and process PNR in the aviation sector. For the maritime sector, I refer to Secretary of State De Backer, who is responsible for combating fraud, protecting privacy and the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u32	Mr. Minister, you are calling for security requirements and the need to fight, rightly, serious crime and terrorism. When you correlate PNR databases with the Customs or the Foreign Office database, it has nothing to do with terrorism. We will have an opportunity to discuss this on Friday and in the following weeks in committee, but we are witnessing a paradigm shift. From a system where a database is questioned on the basis of an index, it is changed to indices obtained on the basis of the correlation of databases, which is fundamentally different. The question of proportionality will emerge from the discussions in the Committee on Terrorism. For me, this is not proportional, and it is clearly the opinion of the Advocate General to the Court of Justice of the European Union on the dispute between the European Commission and Canada over the PNR Treaty. Here, by adding the mobility dimension, we see that things are not proportional from an economic and environmental point of view. That is what justifies the letters from the Commission and the railway operators. This is not even proportional from a security point of view, minister. Indeed, if the terrorists know that they are traced thanks to the PNR planes, boats and buses, they will take the car! This reasoning is not justified from an environmental point of view, of course, nor from a safety point of view. As part of this bill, you have not played your role as an advocate for the mobility sector, especially the train sector, in the environmental fight and even in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u33	Mr Minister, I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Hellings. I'm a little surprised because I have the feeling that you're telling us that the bill is here and that orders will be made. We didn't discuss it upstream. So we'll see below how to get out of this mess. Objectively, this raises serious questions about consultation within your government. As my colleague has said, it is clear that the terrorism axis has won over everything else. However, there are real challenges in the areas of mobility and the environment, and we must take them into account. Mr Minister, I therefore hope that you will finally give priority to these aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I was pleased to hear you say that the train system, unlike the aviation system, is an open system. I think it is important to continue to underline this and also to ensure that the open system can remain. I think that's the essence. Of course, there are concerns about terrorism, but we must also be vigilant. A Flemish writer-lawyer Walter Damen has launched a book this week in which he talks about flame politics, including with regard to security measures and anti-terrorism measures. I think it is wise to consider thoroughly the possible effects of measures on our daily lives. That is, I believe, a very important concern. We must ensure that possible risks are shifted through seemingly substantial measures. I hope you're making your commitment to maintaining the open train system firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u35	Mr Minister, I have noted the wording of your answer: "I will express these concerns", before adding: "I will express my concerns". Did I hear you correctly? I take note that you're worried and I understand it because I'm just as worried as I am. I have the impression, perhaps I am mistaken, that you have been put, in a way, before the fait accompli of the government and the Minister of the Interior who made his decision... and Minister Bellot will follow! It may be a misinterpretation, but it's my impression listening to your answer. We certainly went too fast in this case! I think you recognize him. Now, it looks like you're planning to step back a little bit through the Royal Enforcement Order. I do hope that you will, as far as possible, partially correct everything that is wrong in this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u36	I think this is a real debate, minister. I hope, Mr Van den Bergh, that you will relay this exchange to the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u37	Madam President, the draft law itself offers opportunities, but it does not present any obstacles to rail transport. Everything will depend on the implementing decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u38	Minister, you announced in the press a few weeks ago that on 31 December, you will make a proposal to the government regarding the provision of services, if the social dialogue has not produced any results by that date. The articles also deal with the content of the proposal, which is based on the four scenarios explained to us at the committee meeting on 31 May. In doing so, you would like to extend the deadline for announcing strikes and tighten the sanctions for staff who, despite an announcement that they are coming to work, do not show up. Can you confirm that you will submit a proposal to the government on 31 December next if the social dialogue has not produced any concrete results? Will the proposal include, among other things, the measures I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u39	At the launch of the Custom Experience Lab on October 12, you launched some ideas about the future of the railways. In particular, you mentioned minimum service and if my information is correct, you argued that if the social partners did not decide on one of the four minimum service scenarios, you would decide yourself in January 2017. You also gave the rationale for the introduction of the minimum service, the fact that travellers could abandon SNCB. Are the strikers responsible for the 193 trains deleted, especially in the first and last hours of the day? Are the strikers responsible for extending journey times by an average of 12%? Are it the strikers who decided that the RER would only be achieved in 2030 due to a lack of resources? Are it the strikers who have decided to reduce the staff and, therefore, to reduce the interviews causing technical failures causing delays? Are it the strikers who have decided to prefer the construction of pharaonic stations to the maintenance of the lines? Mr Minister, I do not find it very right on your part to oppose staff and users, because they are both victims of the same policy, including the budget. When people are asked why they are not taking the train, the reasons cited are lack of equipment, obsolete infrastructure, limited supply, too high prices, delays mainly due to technical problems. What are you doing to improve these discouraging factors for travellers? Do you not find that by attacking the right to strike, you are destroying not the cause of the problems but the thermometer that can signal problems to you? What do you intend to do in January if no agreement is reached? What is the scenario that will be chosen? What about sanctions and the free choice to work or not in the head of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u40	Minister, you have stated that you want to impose the minimum service on the SNCB by bringing the related bill into force by December 31, 2016 at the latest, regardless of the status of discussions with the unions. In your opinion, for staff, this means numerically that 15% of train drivers and attendants will have to be at the station. In the worst case scenario for staff, 4 out of 10 trains will run and half, 50% of SNCB staff, will remain mobilized. Minister, what is the status of negotiations with the unions to date? You quote the easiest percentages to reach, perhaps, but it would appear that, in order to ensure safety, the mobilization of 75% to 100% of the staff is necessary for certain functions, particularly for staff in signal booths. Can you confirm this information? If so, how do you intend to effectively implement this minimum service with such percentages, bearing in mind that in addition, in these functions, there are now major over-schedulings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u41	Chers collégues, the federal government agreement does indeed mention the need for clear rules in order to avoid wild strikes. It also proposes that there should be a legal anchor with regard to a guaranteed service. With regard to this last point, I continue to consider, as minister responsible for transport policy, that it is important for the sector concerned to receive as much as possible its chance to meet the concerns of the government, which meets the expectations of the passengers. The key element in favour of this consultation is the fact that the rail sector is likely to propose a system offering sufficient guarantees that these are practical rules. You had, at the end of June, early July, the presentation made by SNCB officials of various proposed scenarios, without the government or the minister intervening in the internal discussion at SNCB. I would remind you that at no time did we intervene in this discussion. It is the sector that has the hand today. We are accused of not consulting, when we are out of agreement and we are asking them to reach agreement internally. This is where the maturity of the quality of trade union and social cooperation is assessed. At this stage, I am only aware of the potential scenarios that have been set out in this chamber. I therefore continue to follow with interest the progress made in the sector, but it is true that the end of this year seems to me to be an appropriate time to assess the results of this consultation, when the date for assessing the situation was initially set at 31 December last year. If the internal consultation at SNCB does not succeed by 31 December 2016, then an appropriate initiative will be taken in accordance with the government's agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. You say that all opportunities are still given to the consultation. But to achieve results, there must of course be the will to land. I therefore sincerely hope that anyone who can have an important voice in the dossier will also use that voice to achieve results rather than boycott the dossier. I also refer to the resolution on social dialogue, which was adopted here in our committee just before the recess. It also called for the provision of guaranteed services, as stated in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u43	Mr Minister, your comments are laughable when you say that they are being asked to succeed and that we are going to assess the maturity of the social dialogue to this ability to succeed. The government is indeed reaching out to social dialogue but unbalanced the balance. It is clear that the unions are being asked what sauce they are going to eat. It is therefore not an obvious social dialogue for trade unions that may have to drop a fundamental right which is the right to strike. This is indeed the defence of the right to strike, which is responsible for the social progress of the country's history. I understand that it is not easy for the SNCB trade unions to conduct these negotiations. In any case, this is not going to improve rail transport, but on the contrary! You had a thermometer there and travellers and staff have common interests. Somewhere, breaking the right to strike is a way to break this union that exists between travellers and staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. Every time we discuss this issue, I remain very perplexed. We have had presentations in committee, but I cannot understand how you and my colleagues do not understand, in terms of the figures that have been presented to us in any scenario, that this minimum service is impossible to implement without fundamentally breaking the right of workers to strike. From the moment that, in certain functions, between 75 and 100% of the staff is required, it is illusory and impossible! I blame you today for throwing the ball at the operators and putting you back from the discussion. You have a major role to play in setting limits in the discussions and you need to realize that it is impossible to implement the scenarios presented. You refuse to do so and I almost hope that we will one day implement this minimum service so that we can realize that it does not work!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u45	Madam President, Minister, in Limburg's interest, Infrabel confirms that it no longer maintains the tracks between Lanaken and the Dutch border. The 2.3 km long track, which is part of the international line 20, has been officially decommissioned. However, only five years ago the route was refurbished. Since then, unfortunately, there have been hardly any trains. The investment of 32 million euros in a brand new rail terminal in Lanaken didn't make much money. The terminal was not connected to the Belgian rail network. The connection to the Flemish inland and the seaports is absolutely necessary for Railport Lanaken. We can do that by reactivating railroad 20. Do you recognise the importance of that line as a possible alternative to the more than saturated Montzen line? According to Infrabel's spokesperson, it's not the intention to let the line go down. The infrastructure is not broken up and a few minor interventions allow the line to be opened up quickly if trains want to run again. Can you confirm that? If desired, can the line "Can' be reactivated quickly? Is that technically possible? If there are no trains running on the line for several years, it will take more effort to make them rideable back. That's what Infrabel's spokesperson says. After how many years without review and maintenance, larger infrastructure works are required to reactivate a railway line? How long does a railway line with concrete sleepers and long-welded rails remain transportable without regular maintenance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u46	Mr Raskin, just because the line 20 is not connected to the rest of the Belgian rail network, it cannot be an alternative to the so-called Montzen line today. Moreover, the Montzen line is not saturated today. In the light of foreseeable traffic increases from and to the port of Antwerp, I am in favour of finding alternatives in the long term by the time the Montzen line is saturated. It is in this context that I follow with interest the study work on the possible construction of the Iron Rhine. There's no decision today to decommission the line 20. Without maintenance for a few years, for example five years, the tracks can be rehired quite quickly. The growth of vegetation in the rail bed itself can be easily removed as long as the vegetation is limited. In the case of a lot of vegetation on the track, the ballast should be sieved. As far as signalling and power supply systems are concerned, it is sometimes necessary to remove certain parts of them in order to avoid vandalism or theft. In that case the re-employment will take more time and there will also be more costs involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u47	Minister, we can, of course, discuss whether or not we are satisfied with the Montzen line. Another important disadvantage is of course that the Montzen line towards the Roer area is an important detour, but you also indicate that this story is linked to the Iron Rhine and that study is still ongoing. We await the results of this in suspense. We must bear in mind that Railport in Lanaken is important for the further economic opening up of the whole of the Euregion. Both Flanders and Europe have paid a lot of money for it. That seems completely wasted and apparently was a fool's errand. Reactivation of railway line 20 would be a relatively simple solution for the return of that investment. It is important to create a connection with both the port of Antwerp and Zeebrugge. This would not only be a good thing for my province, but also for the entire Flemish country and, by extension, the Euregion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u48	Minister, during the previous round of questions I questioned you about the continuing problem of flooding in Leopoldsburg. That problem would be due to a poorly maintained canal between railway 15 and the Antwerpesteenweg in Leopoldsburg. Infrabel is responsible for the maintenance of the canal. In your reply, you then told me that there had been a consultation between Infrabel and the municipality of Leopoldsburg with a view to establishing a constructive cooperation on the maintenance of that canal. Minister, where and when did this consultation take place? Was there a report of the consultation? If so, can you get me that? Could you briefly indicate what was the outcome of the consultation and what concrete arrangements were made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u49	Mr Raskin, the consultation with the technical service of the municipality of Leopoldsburg took place on 8 January 2016. According to Infrabel, no report was produced. During that consultation, Infrabel informed the municipality of the drainage of neighborhood residents in the respective canal. Infrabel has in the meantime hired 40 to 50 owners concerned to make the necessary adjustments, with a view to drainage on the public road. Infrabel relies on Article 681 of the Civil Code. Each owner must build his roofs in such a way that the rainwater runs on his land or on the public road. He can't bring it down on his neighbor's yard. The contents of the writing to local residents were submitted to the municipality for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u51	At the end of last year, SNCB decided to order 445 new vehicles from the Bombardier- Alstom consortium. These are M7 double deck trains worth EUR 1.3 billion. The new equipment must replace some of the old and with the additional capacity and seating space absorb the annual growth of passengers. The first carriages would be delivered from 2018. The order was of course good news for the location in Bruges. The company would face major financial problems. Since January 75 workers have left Bruges and apparently some of the engineers and artists should also leave. Is SNCB aware of the developments at Bombardier? Can SNCB guarantee that these developments will not affect the timing, delivery, reliability and safety of the new vehicles? What contractual arrangements have been made by SNCB to cover the potential misconduct of Bombardier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u52	SNCB was informed of the restructuring measures envisaged by Bombardier. On 13 June 2016, SNCB's CEO sent a letter to the President of Bombardier Transportation to express his concern about various aspects of the implementation of the contract, and in particular about compliance with the planning and quality level, which partly depends on the feedback of the technical teams of Bombardier on the experience gained for the M6 equipment. SNCB informs me that she has also asked to be informed in due course about the evolution of the file in order to assess its possible impact. The project steering group, at its meeting, paid particular attention to the possible consequences of the restructuring and analysed them in detail. The item was also placed on the agenda of the latest summit meeting on 30 August 2016. According to SNCB, the restructuring of Bombardier, in particular for the Bruges site, would not have a negative impact on the course and planning of the project or on the quality and safety of the equipment supplied. The commercial terms of the contract between SNCB and Bombardier- Alstom contain many provisions designed to protect the interests of SNCB in the event of failure of the manufacturers and to encourage them to comply with contractual planning, quality and operational security. These include covering the commitments made by SNCB through bank guarantees, fines for late delivery and fines for lack of operational security too high an immobilisation rate and non-compliance with the life cycle cost ceilings. In the event of problems affecting safety or where unacceptable deviations are identified in relation to planning or operational security, more stringent measures shall apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u53	Thank you, Minister. I am pleased that the file is being followed up by the SNCB summit. So he's up to speed. He himself took the initiative to ask to be kept informed in the future. I also understand from your reply, in short, that the contract contains the necessary clauses to deal with any problems. I believe that this is a good thing. It is not unrealistic to expect that technical problems or childhood diseases may arise after delivery. That wouldn't be the first time. Let us hope that the dossier is final and that it is properly followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u54	Minister, I apologise for the late presence, but the new facilities are causing delays between the halls. I come to my question. The Belgian Road Safety Institute (BIVV) had announced a study on variable speeds. Since it would appear in the summer, we naturally expect results in autumn. Have you received any information about the study on variable speeds? Do you intend to introduce them on the Belgian motorways?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mrs Dumery's explanatory statement. Has there been or planned consultation with stakeholders, such as mobility associations, the Regions and so on, on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u56	My predecessor has indeed asked the BIVV to carry out a study on the possibility of adapting speed limits on the motorway to traffic conditions, weather conditions and/or road surface conditions. In particular, the study should determine whether the adjustment of speed on motorways can contribute to greater road safety, to better traffic flow and to a reduced impact of traffic on the environment. It is indeed the intention to examine an increase or a reduction in the maximum permitted speed on the basis of specific criteria. There is no desire, a priori, to increase the maximum permitted speed. The results of the study will have to show whether that is interesting. Given the importance and complexity of this issue, the BIVV has decided to develop a rigorous methodology to best support the various adaptation options. This implies cooperation with the regions, an extensive consideration of the choices made by the other countries in this area, a meeting with international experts in this area, the development and modeling of relevant speed adjustments for the Belgian motorways, etc. For these reasons, the report on this extensive study will not be available until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u57	I understand, Minister, that we have to wait a few months before we know the results of the study. I will record that in my agenda and then question you again. It is a very important subject. In other countries dynamic traffic management is already in place and this shows that road safety increases if variable speeds are applied. It is not a question of increasing speed, but of applying variable speeds, depending on the circumstances. For example, in the case of traffic jams, the permitted speed can be reduced, reducing the speed of the incoming drivers, thus reducing the risk of colliding with the tail of the traffic jams. So it is a very important point that we will follow up. My colleague Lahaye-Battheu apologizes. In the meantime, she has gone to a committee meeting in another building of the Chamber. She told me that she would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u58	Here's to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u59	Questions Nos 13739 and 13759 by Mrs Jadin and Mrs Dumery respectively are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u60	Minister, this year a Wi-Fi project was launched on the Eupen-Ostend line in the first class cars. The test period ran from February to May 2016. It was also important that it was a free test period and that the satisfaction of users would be measured. A feasibility study would be organised after the pilot project. Then the decision would be taken whether or not to roll this out, with the cost of course being an important element. A free Wi-Fi service was also launched in Sweden in 2014. It turned out that this was largely compensated, in particular by EUR 100 million extra revenue from tickets, partly due to the Wi-Fi connection on the train. I have some questions. Has an evaluation already been made for our country? Was there any satisfaction? What improvements are possible? Has that feasibility study been carried out? What would the cost be? What decisions is SNCB inclined to take? Does this remain a free service or does one opt for a paying form?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u61	Minister, I would like to join very briefly in this. Can you give us an update on the Wi-Fi project on the trains? A second point is Wi-Fi in the stations. SNCB has stated that it is being hampered because it needs the cooperation of Infrabel and this does not seem so obvious. I would have liked to have had some explanation about this. We can assume that we can work together to realise such projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the pilot project is now complete. This will identify both the technical performance of the system and the perception of the traveller of the Wi-Fi service through market research. As regards technical quality, we can say that the current technology allows us to offer a high-performance Wi-Fi service to the traveller. The perception of the traveller was also very positive. He experienced the Wi-Fi service as a performer. Currently, SNCB evaluates the business case and examines which types of fleet can be equipped with it and within what timing. According to SNCB, the necessary investments and annual costs for data volumes and maintenance would be substantial. There are currently no official cost figures available. The possible affordability of access to Wi-Fi is part of the business plan. SNCB informs me that it has not yet taken a decision on this matter. With regard to the Internet in the stations, SNCB will first examine whether it is technically and feasible to separate the SNCB network from the Infrabel network and what its cost will be. For this purpose, a market consultation was launched which will be awarded in November. Depending on the results of this research, SNCB will further develop its network strategy. Telenet's Wifi service has been available since 2004 in 48 stations. This service is free for Telenet customers. For those who wish to work at the station during a waiting period, SNCB offers flexible work spaces in partnership with Regus at eight stations: Brussels-Midi, Brussels-Central, Leuven, Sint-Niklaas, Brussels-Luxembourg, Brugge, Antwerp-Centraal and Liège-Guillemins. In addition to Internet and Wi-Fi connections, various services are available, such as meeting rooms, individual workstations, printers, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For us, two things are important to know. Firstly, after that trial period, it should be possible to calculate its cost. I am surprised that the cost cannot yet be reported. Secondly, it is not clear to me what the timing is for making a final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u64	Minister, I agree with Mr Geerts' comments. Sometimes I get the impression that people are trying to get rid of it with generalities in the answers. That is not a reproach to you, because you will simply be given the answers of the railway company. I think it is necessary for us to have more concrete answers to our questions. Perhaps, in that sense, we should send a further signal to the people who provide the answers. I find it difficult to imagine that there is no more specific information available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u65	Mr. President, Minister, in a recent interview in which you outlined your vision for long-term mobility, you said: "We will provide users with a decision support tool, a smartphone application that, in real time, will provide information on traffic jams, parking availability, train schedules. Data from Coyote and telephone operators will be included. Thanks to this type of hyper-dynamic tool, the Netherlands has managed to reduce the size of the plugs by 19% in 3 years." Like you, I believe that digital tools, such as smartphone apps, can be very useful in significantly improving and modernising our daily mobility. It is therefore important to invest now in this area and therefore to improve the provision of services to users. Minister, can you give us more details on this proposed application? In concrete terms, what are the main features targeted and what types of transport will be affected by the measure? What is the expected agenda for its practical implementation? Will this application be free of charge? Finally, what partnerships should they be linked to, for example, private companies? Have your services already engaged in discussions with private actors of connected mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u66	Dear colleague, STIs are an integral part of a broader vision of mobility. That's why I asked my FPS to draft a federal ITS action plan for the end of this year. Currently, there are 300 ITS services, 300 applications. The federal ITS action plan should aim at consistency between these different services. The aim is to prevent systems from being incompatible while the service is interesting. Thanks to the use of a common repository, the plan will also aim to ensure that the different ITS services are interoperable at Belgian and European level. Among these mobility services, I would like to work directly on the development of a multimodal planner route on the basis of available data, both from public and private actors. The mobility sector must be one of the beneficiaries of the ongoing digital revolution. Data management, both in their collection and in their use, enables the development of new tools for people who want to move. They must contribute to the necessary mental shift, prior to the modal shift for more intermodality. This application is in line with this logic. We therefore want to move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u67	Mr President, thank you for your encouraging response. We will follow this file closely, which is expected to be completed soon as you have just indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic511x.u68	Mr President, a small comment: I have a good Bible to follow.
