ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u1	Mr President, Minister, one week after the Brussels government released several tens of millions of euros for some 30 exceptional support measures proposed by the Brussels Economic and Social Concertation Committee, the federal government announced, after a task force meeting involving economic and cultural circles, the adoption of some 10 measures to support economic and cultural activity in Brussels. In the very difficult moments that affect us, and more particularly the Brussels people, it is more necessary than ever to unite all the living forces. Minister, can you give us a detailed picture of the measures that come under your jurisdiction and the budget allocated to all of these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, although I will send them in writing, I would like to recall the arrangements already made in November 2015 following the crossing at alert level 4 and the Brussels lockdown. After the tragic attacks in Brussels and Zaventem in March 2016, on which we would once again like to express our deepest sympathy to the victims and families concerned, we extended the measures in force since November 2015 in the first quarter of 2016. They were then extended to three quarters for horeca and commercial establishments whose head office is located in one of the 19 municipalities of Brussels-Capital or Zaventem. On April 22, 2016, the government presented a coherent package of measures to support sectors affected by terrorist attacks. Of these, several are specifically concerned with Brussels independents or traders. Let me introduce them to you briefly. First, the extension of the crisis measures, with the possibility of deferment of payment of social contributions, was extended to the first three quarters of 2016 for horeca and commercial establishments whose head office is in one of the nineteen communes of Brussels-Capital or in Zaventem. This means that the contribution for the first quarter of 2016 must be paid before March 31, 2017, and so on for the following quarters. However, I would like to point out that the measure does not apply to contributions that had already been paid at the time. Secondly, the possibility of consolidating the files of applications for exemption from contributions before the Commission for exemption from contributions, with a view to an accelerated and uniform treatment, is also foreseen for applications relating to the first three quarters of 2016. Thirdly, self-employed persons working in the horeca or trade sectors in Brussels, whose incomes have fallen sharply as a result of the attacks, may, under certain conditions, request a reduction, almost definitive here, of their provisional contributions, following the reform of the calculation of contributions, to their social insurance fund, by means of a simplified procedure. These sectors have indeed been recognised as sectors in crisis. The self-employed concerned will no longer have to demonstrate the existence of this condition of a sector in crisis as part of the adjustment of their social contributions to the decrease. In this case alone, they must provide for an objective element, which is plausible proof of the decrease in the income they record and present it to the social insurance fund. At the same time, the three support measures referred to in point 1 (deferral, decrease in advance payments, exemptions) were extended, for the first three quarters of 2016, to all the independents of all sectors of activity for Belgium as a whole, provided they are able to prove that they are experiencing significant reductions in professional income following the terrorist attacks of 22 March. In this second case, the assessment is left to the self-employed person's social insurance fund under the supervision of the Independent DG on the basis of the evidence provided by the independents concerned. The Brussels non-horeca or trade sectors can also apply for these support measures for the first three quarters of 2016. However, in order to obtain a reduction in their provisional social contributions, they will also have to demonstrate the difficulties they have encountered specifically. With regard to the budget estimate, it is premature to estimate the use to be made of these provisions by the independents concerned in the light of the socio-economic situation of each of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u3	Mr Minister, Brussels is not the only one concerned – I am thinking of Bruges. The affected sectors are located in tourist towns, not elsewhere. It therefore seems to me complicated to extend this measure to the whole of Belgium. A deferral of contributions does not help the self-employed, because they will not be able to pay tomorrow as long as they have not earned anything the day before. There is a need for either reductions or exemption from contributions. I am asking all ministers the question. When the Brussels Region manages in a week to release more than seven hundred million euros, I believe that the federal government could do so to the tune of one hundred million for the victims. Let us not forget that the lung of Brussels and other cities, such as Bruges, is made up of tourism, horeca, shops. These sectors therefore need to be supported, because they are direct and non-relocable jobs. In my opinion, in proportion to the investment of the Brussels Region, the Federal Government is not doing enough, Mr Minister, in view of the two events which have struck Brussels in particular and all of Belgium in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u4	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11530.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u5	I suggest Mrs. Gantois brings together all her questions. Mrs Dierick and Mrs Cassart-Mailleux will then have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I have four questions that overlap here and there, but I will ask them anyway. After all, it is too important and I am eager to take advantage of your presence here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u7	My first question concerns the lowest milk price in seven years. The abolition of milk quotas on 1 April 2015 has had consequences, as milk production has increased. It has even increased considerably, because in the most important world markets there has been an additional 6 billion litres milking. There is an imbalance between supply and demand and so the price goes into free fall. Milcobel, the largest dairy company, reduced his price to 21 cents per litre on 18 May. In total, a farmer now gets 24 cents per litre compared to 40 cents at the end of 2013. To get out of the cost, a farmer must receive EUR 31 per 100 litres of milk. In the past, the low variable costs were able to compensate for the loss, but they have been increasing since 2015. In the meantime, we know that the milk price is at its deepest point in seven years. A lot of families are having a hard time. However, this is not a recent problem, because as early as January 2015, I told you in an oral question that over-production of milk was written through the abolition of quotas and a significant drop in prices. Eight questions later, or arguments if you like, we are still no further, the situation is even getting worse. Not only should we look at Europe, but there is also a risk of an unsustainable situation if our supermarket chains continue to negotiate even lower purchase prices in contract negotiations. The press said that the milk price might reach the bottom. Minister, what steps are you taking against this? Now I come to my second question. In the absence of European structural measures, the German government has decided to grant at least EUR 100 million of aid to its dairy farmers, after consultation at a dairy meeting between the German Agriculture Minister, the dairy and distribution sectors. The aid will include guarantees and tax relief to allow financial bridging. I'll cut my question short. In the meantime, the European Commission has decided to increase intervention storage capacity for skimmed milk powder to as much as 350 000 tonnes. This is again not a structural measure, but a half-hearted measure taken by Commissioner Hogan, with no long-term benefits for the sector. On this point, Minister, I would also like to ask you whether you are considering structural measures with your colleagues in the regions. Is there any chance that Commissioner Hogan will see the light and yet be won over for long-term structural measures? My third question concerns the latest European Agriculture Summit. The agricultural press wonders whether it is not time, as happened in Germany, to organise a dairy meeting at European level. Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan sees no good in this either, because he believes that the monthly meetings already cover the load. There will be no measure for voluntary production restrictions, either in the pig sector or in the milk sector. However, this idea is affectionate to many Member States, and you too, I believe, follow that line. We shall once again draw attention to support measures for private storage. Actually cynical, because this is not a structural solution. This only has a negative effect. It would really be useful if we could adopt a policy that better matches supply with demand, so that agriculture will be less dependent on subsidies in the long term. My questions are as follows. What is your position on a European dairy meeting? What is your position on what Phil Hogan proposed at the latest summit? The agricultural ministers met at the end of last month. What did you advocate at that meeting? My final question for the time being concerns the lack of European structural measures. On 14 March last, a new package of measures was proposed at the European Agriculture Council to support the agricultural sector. One such measure is the activation of Article 222 of the common organisation of the markets, which allows interprofessional organisations and producer organisations to voluntarily reduce milk production. Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan failed to provide for a coordinated approach imposing a certain production restriction on the milk sector. You yourself have already responded that you estimate the impact of this rule very low and that the measure will not improve the price of milk. At a written question from me, you said that on 25 May you were in association with the French Minister for Agriculture with the aim of mobilising the political actors and the actors in the dairy sector in order to overcome the great difficulties. Minister, how did this consultation go? What specific issues have emerged from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u8	Minister, Mrs Gantois has already outlined the situation very well. I will therefore confine myself to my questions. Firstly, how does the price of milk and skimmed milk powder in Belgium compare with the price in the neighbouring countries? Secondly, the agreement between the partners in the chain talks on the support mechanism ended in March. How's the chain meeting going now? Are there negotiations going on again? Thirdly, at the Agriculture Council on 14 March, European Agriculture Commissioner Hogan announced a new package of crisis measures, including the possibility of temporarily limiting dairy production, a market observatory for beef and pork and increased ceilings for national aid. The aim is to create the possibility of temporary and voluntary production restrictions for milk. According to the Minister, the European Union should grant compensation to producers in order to temporarily reduce their production and in consultation with producer organisations. In the meantime, the practical implementation of these measures becomes clearer. Minister, what is the state of play? How, by whom and by what means will a system of production restrictions actually contribute to a change in the dairy markets be set up? Fourthly, it is important to analyse the feasibility and the advantages and disadvantages of the various proposals during this difficult period. Has this already been done by Europe or by our country? If so, what are the findings? Fifthly, a separate point on funding. The strong price fluctuations for milk and other agricultural products obviously have a strong impact on the financing of agricultural holdings. Many farmers have had to raise their reserves for a long time or go back to the bank in order to maintain their liquidity. The banks also have a possible role to play here. For example, Rabobank in Ireland starts with a flexible financing product for dairy farmers, whereby they pay more at a good price and less at a lower price. Europe and the Netherlands would already be interested in this solution. Are there any discussions with the financial sector in our country to address possible solutions to the crisis from that point of view? Those were my first questions about the milk price. Then I actually had a follow-up question to my earlier question on the milk payment. On 17 May 2016, you would once again strongly formulate the Belgian position at the European Agricultural Council that took place that day. You also asked, together with your colleague Le Foll, for the mobilisation of the European Parliament, which would discuss the activation of Rule 222 at a meeting of the Agriculture Committee on 25 May 2016. The current situation is extremely dramatic and cannot last much longer. This must be an absolute priority for us. What were the recommendations resulting from the consultations held on 17 May? What recommendations did the consultations on 25 May lead to? What concrete measures will ultimately be taken? What's the timing? What role does our country play in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u9	Before giving the floor to Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, I will read the title of her question, which I find interesting: "the ways out of the milk crisis".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u10	Minister, a lot has been said. Our timing is rather tight; that is why I will not expose the whole of a dossier for which we are trying to find solutions and which matters to everyone. I didn't say the solutions were simple. Since March, a system has voluntarily reduced milk production: this is Article 222. It allows milk producers to temporarily derogate from competition rules by limiting production for a given period. Despite this, production in the European Union continues to increase. Mr Minister, what exactly is this Article 222 of the European Regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products? Why does the activation of the above-mentioned article not seem effective and does not produce the expected effects? What lines will you defend on 27 June to remedy this crisis in the milk sector? As my colleagues have said, decisions have been made before, so we were not aware of the consequences they would have now, but you are certainly not responsible for that. It is clear that we must stop this bleeding. The sector can't do it anymore, it's out of breath. When you get up every morning, seven days a week, to do a job like that, I think you're entitled to income. I would like to take stock with you today, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u11	Minister, we will listen carefully to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, you are right to remind us of the unsustainable situation in which dairy farmers find themselves. In particular, an asymmetry between supply and demand, which has been going on for months, is bringing prices down and creating painful competition between the players in the chain. European production already increased by 7.2% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter 2015. For example, 32.8 % more cow's milk was collected in Ireland, 21.3 % in Belgium, 22.7 % in Luxembourg and 9.8 % in Poland, if we compare the figures from January-March 2015 with those from January-March 2016. At the European Agriculture Council on 17 May, the Commissioner concluded that it was difficult for him at this stage to request new liquidity measures because only 56% of the envelope of EUR 420 million was issued to the Member States in September 2015. The Commissioner even stressed that some Member States had not yet issued a single euro from their envelope. The intervention volume of 218 000 tonnes for skimmed milk powder was reached on 24 May last. As a reminder, this volume was doubled by Commissioner Hogan in April. In response, the Commission decided on 26 May to increase intervention capacity to 350 000 tonnes. That instrument, as I have said, is not a solution or a complete solution. I have said several times that only a European response can provide concrete solutions to the overproduction that the milk sector is facing. That is why I have strongly called for Article 222 of the GOM, which is at the heart of all the debates today. The objective of that scheme is to allow producer organisations and cooperatives to agree on a reduction in production on a temporary and voluntary basis. This reduction must, of course, give rise to incentives, through the allocation of a compensation budget to the producers participating in it. In this sense, the Commission had decided to leave more freedom to the Member States, by granting the possibility of a spread of State aid of EUR 15 000 per year for each producer. As far as the use of these measures is concerned, I refer you to the relevant regions. The situation is so critical that, together with my French colleague, Stéphane Le Foll, I asked for a specific meeting to be held on this subject by the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament. The meeting took place on 25 May. During the meeting several important players from the milk sector were heard, including COPA, COGECA, EZA, EMB and Via Campesina. Following the views of the Member States, the different actors and the Commission have a different view on the use of Article 222 with European compensation. In addition, the Commission representative concluded that the ball is now in the hands of the producers. I do not entirely share this view and I am pleased that most of the Members of this House follow me on this. Indeed, producers must agree in order to achieve a real reduction in production in the long term. However, the most willing producers who want to make the effort do not have to pay the price. The reduction must not become an opportunity for the other Member States of the European Union. Moreover, it would be difficult for us to ensure that Belgium could only mitigate the asymmetry between supply and demand by a reduction in production of 2% to 3%. After all, asymmetry has a global dimension. Therefore, I believe that this call for Article 222 of the CMO will not be able to deliver its full potential as long as it is based on a voluntary basis without European compensation for producers who agree to make an effort. I am convinced that the temporary reduction in production is now the only way to offer or try to restore remunerative prices to producers. The next Council on the evolution of the market will take place on 27 and 28 June in Luxembourg. It is of paramount importance that the Commission puts forward new solutions that can have a significant impact on the market this time. On 9 June last, a meeting of the Weimar Triangle took place in Poland, which is the cooperation which unites France, Poland and Germany. The three countries have agreed on the need to introduce a European financial incentive to encourage voluntary reductions in milk production. The new position of Germany and Poland is, of course, a good one and tends towards the Belgian position, which was first formulated in September 2015. In addition, COPA, which also provides balanced opinions on the basis of its member organisations, has also taken a position in favour of temporary management of production. With regard to the use of the EUR 100 million German national support plan announced by my colleague Christian Schmidt, the detailed information on its use has not yet come to my attention, but I have read that part of this amount is actually intended for a mechanism aimed at at least stabilising production. Although cash aid is a valued temporary element, it is not the solution. Storage cannot be the solution either. It must now be said that without these elements of temporary regulation at European level, in addition to support for exports, domestic consumption, recovery in innovative products, support for cash flow, the storage mechanism, the crisis is likely to continue, which would be quite dramatic for our producers. At the federal level, I am making every effort to support all the dossiers designed to enhance our products, to remove health barriers, to negotiate with third countries, to support our agri-food players in exports, particularly in the search for new markets. Finally, I would like to point out to you that it is not possible to make a new chain agreement since it is contrary to European provisions. This must be a temporary measure, limited in time. It is not possible to extend it at this stage. In addition, following the Czech proposal, which I was informed of at a recent meeting in the Netherlands, where I was present with Joke Schauvliege, the issue of the agricultural crisis will be on the agenda of the Summit of Heads of State and Government, which will take place at the end of June after the Agriculture Council. In a recent correspondence addressed to the European President, the Prime Minister said that Belgium was in favour of this request to include on the agenda of the Summit of Heads of State and Government the management of the agricultural crisis, particularly in the milk sector – but not exclusively, since those of pork or fruit and vegetables are, of course, equally concerned. Pending the European Council of Agriculture Ministers, I will, of course in consultation with my regional counterparts, increase my contacts in order not to miss this decisive meeting at the end of June, which will take place before the meeting of the Heads of State and Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It's striking. The agricultural Commissioner Hogan's favourite measure is storage, storage, storage and storage, both in the pig sector, which fortunately now has a small revival, and in the dairy sector, from 109 000 over 218 000 to 350 000 tonnes of storage. Meanwhile, our dairy farmers are starving. You yourself quoted the figures; there is a huge increase. They are not milking to make more profit, but to reduce their losses. That's the upside-down world. They keep swimming because the alternative is drowning. I have a déjà vu. The milk quotas were created in 1984 to eliminate the butter mountain. Meanwhile, in Europe, there is a mountain of skimmed milk powder growing, which will cost an awful lot to store and which will therefore also require a great deal of resources to reduce. We are witnessing short-term thinking in this area. I no longer understand it, and that while literally everyone in the sector and you know that part of the solution lies in structural dismantling, in temporary regulation, whether or not with temporary production restrictions with compensation. The Belgian Confederation of the Dairy Industry says that there must be a temporary production restriction in order to give the market breathing space. Agrofront talks about a temporary production regime and systems at European level with compensation as the only solution to oversupply. Agricultural organisations are calling for production restrictions, temporarily organised at European level, which should not, however, lead to the reintroduction of milk quotas. I think we all agree on that. Very positive, in this case anyway, is the common position of Poland, Germany and France, while also encouraging the reduction of production. It should be good news that Article 222 is being activated, if you do not believe that this will not reduce production, precisely in the absence of a coordinated approach and European compensation. It is a temporary measure of six months, which can be renewed twice. The large dairy producers have already indicated that they will not be interested, as I read in an article by the Farmers' Union. If they're not interested, who would be interested? This measure applies only to the dairy sector, not to the pig sector, for which storage is also chosen. You are right to say, and I follow you in saying that this money would be better used for the slaughter of piglets with a lower slaughter weight. Apparently, there is no hearing anywhere, not with the Commissioner, for all that. This form of voluntary production restriction already seems to me to be almost a stillborn child, because if the Commissioner does not follow, I do not know how we can make that happen. I have a great deal of respect for all your efforts, including yours, for a global European crisis approach, but there is still no such approach. So continue the fight. I also hope that you will indeed contact the regional ministers in connection with the spread of State aid of EUR 15 000, so that some relief can be provided. I believe that we must indeed try to create unity in Europe. It makes no sense for one country to limit its production if a neighbour takes over production, because then we are just as far from home. I am therefore waiting for the next agricultural summit, but the water comes to the lips of many farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u14	I understand that the word "Storage" has different meanings. The second meaning is a better merit or a better wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u15	Yeah, an increase in pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u16	That is, of course, true in this case. Mrs Dierick, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u17	Minister, I will be very brief. I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer and for your commitment to the dossier. I think we all have a common frustration. We know the problems and we see them getting worse. It seems exactly as if we are walking against the wall and we cannot do much about it ourselves, because we are dependent on Europe and other Member States. Only a joint approach can lead to solutions. Perhaps the only bright spot is that other countries are beginning to see the problems and that they are coming closer to us. That takes a lot of time and we lack time, because it is getting worse and worse. I therefore hope that you keep knocking on that nail so that it stays under the attention of the public. I also hope that you will work with your Belgian colleague responsible for agriculture, so that we can strengthen our position. One question I have not answered is whether there are any discussions with the financial sector. In some countries, such as Ireland, there are discussions about flexible finance products, so that a loan can be repaid more quickly in good times and less repaid in worse times. Perhaps you can discuss this idea with the financial sector so that our farmers can have more financial breathing space.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u18	I note the frustration in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u19	This is the concept of carryback, which is in the government agreement and which I have asked the Minister of Finance to study. I urged him to come with a proposal in this regard. On the other hand, I believe that a bill is also being tabled with respect to the carryback.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u20	Mrs Cassart has left us, but I have no doubt that she thanks you for your answers and congratulates you on your proactive action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic442x.u21	Question No 11756 by Mr Benoît Friart is transformed into a written question.
