ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u1	Mr President, Minister, La Libre Belgique of Tuesday 15 March 2016 tells us that according to an update of the demographic outlook communicated by the Federal Office of the Plan and the Directorate-General for Statistics, the Belgian population is expected to increase by 90,000 in 2016 and by 80,000 in 2017. Annual growth up from what was expected in a first balance sheet. Indeed, this increase of 170,000 new individuals planned for the current year and 2017, is largely due to the additional influx of refugees in the country since the end of summer 2015 and the worsening humanitarian and political crisis in the Middle East. By 2060, Belgium's population would increase by 1.8 million compared to 2015, an increase of 16%. At regional level, the average annual population growth between 2020 and 2060 is estimated to be 8,000 in the Brussels Region, 11,000 in the Walloon Region and 17,000 in the Flemish Region. Annual growth over this period would be lower than in the period 1991-2014, all the more so in the Flemish Region as a result of the more pronounced ageing of its population. As a reminder, the aging of a population, as we can see here, is the result of different factors. In particular, the increase in life expectancy that keeps individuals in the population longer and the decrease in fertility that reduces the number of young people. These two effects are reinforced by the population's history, especially the baby boomers who reach pension age. Finally, international migration, which mainly affects individuals of working age with their children, can, depending on its importance, change the rate of growth of ageing. However, the cost of ageing continues to rise from 11.8% of GDP to 13% of GDP in 2060, despite the reforms adopted by the federal government, where, rightly, the conclusion of a study to be published in June this year in the Revue économique de la Banque Nationale de Belgique: "A good professional integration of asylum seekers will have a positive impact on our economy". On the basis of everything I have just said, I would like to ask you one question. Is not the contribution of immigration to the rejuvenation of the population an alternative for all, both for migrants and for the population and our economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent update of population prospects by the Planning Office and the Directorate-General for Statistics of the SPF indicates that the influx of refugees will have a positive effect on population growth in Belgium. By comparing these perspectives with other analyses by the Planning Office, it turns out that immigration can have a positive effect on economic growth, employment and GDP per capita, and thus on the standard of living of the population, and that the budgetary cost of public expenditure on pensions can decrease. I'll give you a table showing the impact of these prospects. However, I stress that these are assumptions-based perspectives. They contain information useful for policy but should be used with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u4	Mr Calomne is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u5	Mr. Minister, I have never heard of Carolus Magnus University, Martin Buber University, the Van Holland University or Assalam University. Apparently, these are all renowned universities from this country offering diplomas and titles. They are of course worthless in the labour market, but they are worthless for those universities that sell them. In Europe, the term university should not be used as an excuse. Higher education institutions are obliged to be recognised. This is done in the Netherlands and Flanders by the Dutch-Flemish Accreditation Organisation. The Bologna reform of European education has ensured that there is an overarching system of credits so that education can be followed across borders. So it's not allowed to use the term university just like that. According to Minister Crevits' cabinet, there is no problem because these diplomas are not recognised. The reality is, of course, that diplomat crooks deal with this in a different way. The fact that the Belgian Official Journal is full of such universities, universities and universidades indicates that there is a real danger of a problem, especially since in our country international non-profit organisations are recognised at KB. That would underline their value. The consumer is clearly being deceived. The King's name is being abused on the websites to give even more weight to it. In this way, more students are attracted, who graduate less with a worthless piece of paper and a lot of money. Are you aware of these rogue practices? What measures will you take to combat such practices? Is it intended to reform the legislation of non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u6	Mr Wollants, I was not aware of the practice you mentioned until recently. Questioning the Economic Inspectorate tells me that no complaints or notifications from consumers have been received in this context in the past period, but you are right to point out the seriousness of the practices in the context of consumer protection. If it turns out that a quality is assumed without the necessary recognition or authorisation, that is a misleading commercial practice. I have therefore instructed the Economic Inspectorate to launch an investigation into this matter and to take action if the rules on consumer protection, in particular those relating to unfair commercial practices, are infringed. It seems obvious to me that it is also in contact with the regional authorities concerned, which you referred to earlier in your question, and with the ministers concerned. Since I gave the order on 17 May last, so quite recently, the investigation has only just begun. In the meantime, contact has already been made with the services of the three Communities. The aim is to determine how the false centers can be identified as soon as possible. It seems that these centres are changing very often and there is a risk that a list of these false centres will never be up-to-date. The investigation by the Economic Inspectorate must ensure that we get a better picture of the phenomenon. With regard to the information provided by my administration, I can tell you that citizens are regularly informed about scams via the Facebook page Pass scams. On 20 May 2016, there was a publication concerning false universities. Where the FPS Economy finds that a non-profit association is acting in breach of the obligations arising from the law of 27 June 1991 concerning non-profit associations, international non-profit associations and foundations, a report of information may be sent to the public prosecutor. This may lead to the dissolution of the non-profit organisation. The 1991 Law falls within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. I will inform the Minister of Justice so that we can tackle the problem in good coherence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it's a good first step. It is important to protect our consumers. I can imagine that that kind of universities operate from our country to start a diploma scam internationally. However, let me not anticipate the investigation you have ordered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u8	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to the Observatoire du Crédit et de l'Indebtement, one of the Walloon actors in prevention, the number of Belgian households in financial difficulties is far from decreasing despite the preventive measures put in place. In 2015, according to data from the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers de la Banque Nationale, 364,685 borrowers, or almost 4% of the population, were in over-indebted, compared to 350,000 in 2015. So that's a real increase. In more than one third of cases, difficulties are caused by a life accident such as separation or loss of employment. Everyone can be concerned and financial education is therefore paramount. An alternative would be to introduce young people to financial issues and help them better understand the consumer society. In particular, the Luxembourg Prevention Reference Centre has prepared a collection of tales for parents who fail to explain their financial situation to children. On the basis of what I have just told you, how do you envisage the financial education of citizens and what are the existing or future tools? Are similar initiatives to the Luxembourg Prevention Centre existing and possible in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kir, the issue of the fight against over-indebtedness is a priority for me. But we must not act recklessly. Careful preparation is essential in order to optimize the Centrale de crédits aux particuliers. I can assure you that the preparatory work for the implementation of this point in the government agreement has already begun. It is in consultation with a number of actors. I must note that we already have a comprehensive legal framework in Book VII of the Code of Economic Law. I believe that we should focus first and foremost on the proper application of the legal framework for the responsible granting of a loan, as well as on the optimisation of the recording of credit debt data within the CCP. I am also working on a concrete action plan in consultation with all stakeholders. With regard specifically to rent arrears, I would like to point out that the greatest precaution is indicated with regard to their inclusion in blacklists and their extension to all types of debts. Privacy rules must, of course, always be taken into account. The recording of certain debts must be proportional to their added value and relevance, in the context of the provision of loans and the fight against over-indebtedness. Furthermore, it is not sufficient for certain data to be relevant. A number of conditions must also be met, e.g. qualitative data on the basis of objective verifiable default criteria, registration of actors involved in the communication, etc. In the light of these, a general record of final rental arrears does not seem to be really proportional or feasible. This implies notification either by the donors concerned or by the courts concerned, including the presence of the necessary ICT infrastructure. As part of the fight against over-indebtedness, it is essential that the CPC data be updated and give a good idea of active credit debts. The legislation provides that the lender must disclose the data within two working days after the signing of a new credit agreement, the positive part, and within eight days after the finding of a default in accordance with the criteria laid down by law, the negative part. For normal contracts, the recorded data are automatically deleted three months and eight days after the end of the contract. Second, the financial education of citizens falls within the competence of the FSMA. It has a very comprehensive online tool for citizens and students. This site is a database of all the questions related to the notion of money, in particular by using an affordable theme by each, such as, for example, separations, becoming parents, etc. In the same spirit, the Observatoire du Crédit et de l'Indebtement offers awareness-raising, information and training sessions for all front-line actors, in order to enable them to disseminate information to the people concerned and in sensitive environments. Other regional initiatives also exist. Some take place in the province of Limburg, for example, the creation of budget games for final-year students. Like the Luxembourg Centre for Prevention in the context of financial education for young people, the FSMA supports students who want to discuss money issues by offering them a playful and free tool, the game "Gerez te pepetes". With this tool, students in the fourth, fifth and sixth grades learn by playing to manage their pocket money. This game was developed as part of Money Week. The Observatoire du Crédit et de l'Endancement offers a financial education manual "In the pocket" for students of the Flemish, French and German-speaking Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u10	Mr Minister, I thank you for all the useful information you have provided us, particularly with regard to raising awareness of over-indebtedness and social support issues for citizens' financial education. Could I get more details on the timing of your action plan? Have you ever drawn up an agenda? Will you be able to take out your action plan after the holidays or towards the end of the year? I would like to get some information on the timetable for the implementation of your action plan to combat over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u12	I will come back later, Mr Peeters, to ask you about the content and outline of your plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u13	Mr Minister, tonight there is the last performance in a series of three by Adèle in the Sports Palace. Adèle's performances were one of the more sought after performances and therefore also highly subject to fraud with concert tickets. K3's performances were also coveted and many fraudulent practices were identified. This has led to the offline removal in our country of three websites selling concert tickets from the Netherlands. There is still a legal procedure on this subject and you have also contacted your Dutch colleague to see how the dossier can be dealt with jointly. In the meantime, the Benelux Parliament has also picked up the issue. On Friday, the plenary of the Benelux Parliament may adopt a draft recommendation. I would like to point out that the subject is alive and that we must also try to lift it across national borders, because a small country cannot deal with such practices alone and because many of these rogue resale companies operate from the Netherlands. For my question, I would like to focus specifically on the advertisements for such companies and websites. Usually, customers no longer go to the ticket vendors' website, but search for tickets via Google. At the top of the list a number of ticket providers appear, which are usually not the original ticket providers, but resale websites, which often resell certain tickets with usury gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u14	I even have colleagues who have fallen victim to this, which shows that many consumers are unaware of the difference between one ticket vendor and the other. Can the government act against this in a certain way and prohibit fraudulent websites from buying advertisements via Google AdWords? Is it allowed to promote websites that violate the law? If that is not the case, what action can we take against it? Has the FPS Economy received any complaints about these practices? If so, how much? In the context of the resale of concert tickets, an investigation was carried out by the Economic Inspectorate. Was the aspect of Google AdWords included in that investigation? If yes, what are the possible findings? Finally, what is the state of play with regard to the websites that sold concert tickets and are now blocked? Were these websites also promoted via Google AdWords?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u15	Mr Van den Bergh, online advertising services such as search engine advertising services can be regarded as hosting services. This follows from the case law of the Court of Justice. The Court states that the rules on hosting services apply to providers of a search engine advertising service on the Internet, where the service provider has no active role which gives him knowledge of or control over the stored data. This means that those service providers are not, in principle, liable for the data they have stored at the request of an advertiser. Moreover, according to the e-commerce directive, they cannot be subject to a general supervisory obligation by the Member States. The Economic Inspectorate did not receive specific notifications regarding the use of Google AdWords by resale sites. The investigation of the Economic Inspectorate that led to the blocking of the websites of a number of vendors focused on the websites themselves. The problem of adverts was not addressed, but the blocking also prevented the websites concerned from being accessible via advertisements, of course. As the research did not focus on the aspect of the promotion of the websites, I asked, as a result of your question, to extend the research to the issues outlined and to report on that research as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, which is quite clear. We can't stand up to that today. Clarity is one thing. The question, however, is whether we should just accept this. Certainly from a consumer point of view, it seems very important to me that, if you are looking for tickets to a particular event, there should somehow be a clear distinction between the original seller and the vendors. In my opinion, the issue still needs to be dealt with with in the light of the adverts. How this needs to be addressed and at what level, it may need to be examined. I suspect that we will rather have to look at Europe for this. The fact that there is still work on the table seems to me to be quite clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u17	Questions Nos. 11695, 11966, 11989, 12030, 12035, 12036, 12134, 12135, 12337,12355, 12368 and 12370 by Ms. Cassart-Mailleux were postponed to a later meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u18	Minister, in response to a previous question I raised concerning the creation of the register of beneficial owners in line with the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, the Minister of Finance replied that the Treasury of the FPS Finance Office will set up and manage the register in question. During the discussion on measures to combat terrorist financing, the Minister claimed that the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, which would be the logical manager of such a register, did not wish to assume that role. So, Minister, I would have liked to know from you where the choice for the FPS Finance as manager of the registry of beneficial owners comes from. Is that decided at government level? I would also have liked to know why the CBO was not chosen, because that would be the logic itself. Will the registry of beneficial owners be linked to the FBO, as is the case with the annual accounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u19	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will try to inform you fully about the reason. The establishment of the register of beneficial owners is the result of the requirements of Directive 2015/849, the fourth anti-money laundering directive. On the initiative of my services, a meeting was organised with the various parties involved, including the FPS Finance, the FPS Justice and the National Bank, concerning the implementation of the register. Following the meeting, the Minister for Finance decided to entrust the FPS Finance with the implementation and management of the intended national register. The FPS Finance has a large amount of data on persons and entities that may be useful for that registry. Your question was why we didn't put the Feds in place for this. It was chosen not to extend the Crossroads Bank for Enterprise, as the project does not fall within the scope of the legal remit of the CBO, in particular the inclusion, management, retention and provision of data relating to the identification of companies and their mandates. The latter is not insignificant, since the data relating to beneficiaries are not data relating to the identification of an undertaking and the whole of the beneficiaries cannot be considered as managers. That is the reasoning followed. In addition, the FPS Finance already has many useful information for the establishment of the register. In accordance with the only-once principle, it is not necessary to re-collect data that are already available elsewhere. The data of the KBO will of course be made available to the FPS Finance for the creation of the listed register. The KBO Management Service is ready to offer its expertise within the framework of the project. In accordance with Article III.15 of the Code of Economic Law, the CBO may link to databases of administrations. Such a solution can therefore be perfect, especially with a view to the identification of companies and managers. On the basis of that reasoning, it was agreed to organise the register at the FPS Finance Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for explaining why they chose not to include the register in the register in question. The only-once principle is, of course, very important. You already referred to that. I remember from earlier times that it is sometimes very difficult to share data and information between administrations. You say that the CBO is open and that the data are available, but that must be the case. I assume that some sort of protocol will have to be concluded on this, because that is how it is in our country. That is essential, of course: we must not create another database that is not linked to the KBO, because then we will take a few steps backwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u21	Minister, this question is not about the code of conduct for the fitness sector, but about the possible dominant position of Basic-Fit. The Dutch fitness chain Basic-Fit is very active on the Belgian market. The company wants to grow even more in Belgium, to 200 clubs, fifty more than there are today. Besides Basic-Fit, there are hardly any fitness chains in Belgium. After all, the majority of fitness stores in Belgium are small companies. In recent months several articles have been published in the press about the dominant position that Basic-Fit would have on the Belgian fitness market. Basic-Fit would abuse that dominant position by working with low prices or even with loss and imposing huge discounts on fitness equipment suppliers. This makes it very difficult for the small fitness stores, which are priced out of the market, which forced them to close their business. As a result, I would like to ask the following questions, Minister. Are you aware of the problem and are the messages correct? Has the Belgian Competition Authority already opened an investigation into the possible abuse of the dominant position by Basic-Fit? What is the state of the investigation, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u22	Mrs Dierick, like you, I read in the press that there would be problems with the functioning of Basic-Fit on the Belgian fitness market. The information available to me shows that the Belgian Competition Authority has received several informal complaints about how Basic-Fit is developing its activities in the Belgian fitness market. In response to the informal complaints, the Belgian Competition Authority carried out a sector inquiry. The Authority will now have to determine in full independence whether or not it will launch a formal investigation into Basic-Fit practices. I therefore assume that she will follow suit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u23	I note, Minister, that informal complaints have been lodged and that they have been followed up by the Competition Authority. Do you have any idea when an investigation will actually take place or is that still difficult to estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u24	That investigation is classified, so I can't say anything about it because I don't know. I assume that the Competition Authority is well aware that it is a very sensitive and public dossier in which progress is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u25	Thank you for your clarification, Minister. I am very pleased that the matter is being taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u26	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, as I had the pleasure of listening to you this afternoon at the Confederation Construction Conference, I was unable to attend the debate on the bill that was passed at the beginning of the afternoon. I would therefore like to ask you my question, which relates to the problem that was dealt with in that debate. Tricycloacetone triperoxide (TATP) is a chemical that has become infamous since it served as the basis for the manufacture of several bombs used in the Paris and Brussels attacks. In addition, large quantities of this product were found during the searches that took place after the attacks, particularly in Schaerbeek. In fact, TATP is made from oxygenated water (hydrogen peroxide), acetone and a catalyst, such as nitric acid or sulphuric acid. All these products are covered by a regulation of the European Parliament and Council of 15 January 2013 which either prohibits their sale "general public", or requests that the buyer be identified. These Regulations on the Marketing and Use of Explosive Precursors prohibit the making available to the general public of a range of substances that may be used in a diversion to the illicit manufacture of explosives The Regulation entered into force on 2 September 2014 provides for three measures: the prohibition of the sale of certain substances to the "general public", the obligation to identify the buyer of certain other products that remain marketable, including acetone, and the obligation to create a contact point where all suspicious transactions must be reported. In Belgium, until now, only the third obligation appeared to have been more or less fulfilled, since a national contact point had been established in 2013. In concrete terms, this meant that hydrogen peroxide, acetone, nitric acid or sulphuric acid had remained free for sale to the "general public" in our country, despite this European regulation which came into force in 2014. Since the attacks in Paris, the draft law implementing this European regulation has finally been taken in hand by your firm to be voted this afternoon. However, Minister, how do you explain that it took more than three years to implement a European regulation of such importance, especially in view of the context we have known since terrorist acts were committed around the world, when we know that these products can potentially be used to manufacture explosives, as has been demonstrated again after the Paris attacks? My question is about timing. My other question was about voting and coming into force, which was resolved this afternoon. I stress that there is no direct link between the delay and recent attacks or manufactured products. However, we can ask ourselves the question of a subject of such importance. Of course, European directives are often adopted late. But for such an important subject, it is a matter of concern that we have waited more than three years. I wanted to hear from you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u27	The most important thing, Mr Vanden Burre, is that these provisions should be voted on. This is good news for all of us and for you. With respect to time limits, it took some time to determine which services were to be involved and who was to carry the file. Since the regulation concerns different areas, the matter finally came to the Department of Economy where it was mentioned, among other things, within the framework of the Interministerial Economic Commission. Once clarity on the division of labour had been achieved, the drafting of the bill implementing the regulation immediately began. I can confirm that the law will finally come into force in September. With regard to a European regulation, measures such as the prohibition of the sale of certain substances to the general public and the reporting of suspicious transactions are directly applicable and cannot be transposed into Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u28	Minister, thank you for your clarification. As far as the deadline is concerned, I take note of your explanations. I have nothing to add. It is a good thing that it is voted on. In the case of a sensitive subject like this, given the context and the period, this might have been faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u29	Madam President, Minister, since June 1, 2015, the Consumer Mediation Service has jurisdiction over any request for the handling of consumer disputes outside the courts, whether the Service treats them itself (Back Office) or forwards them to a recognized mediation service (Front Office). These two missions are specifically funded: the tasks of the Front Office are proportionately financed by the most important Belgian ombudsmen, while the Back Office function for dealing with residual complaints – which would constitute the vast majority of cases – is financed by a federal budget. Initially set at EUR 500 000, the budget would have been reduced to EUR 363,500, because of the non-payment of the budget balance, whereas the budget would be largely insufficient to ensure the effective functioning of this body. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. Do you confirm the increase in the workload of the Consumer Mediation Service and the non-payment of the entire budget initially allocated to this service? If so, are you considering increasing the funds currently available to the Mediation Service so that it can perform its tasks optimally? What measures are being taken to ensure that German-speaking Belgians have effective access to the Mediation Service? Will other measures promoting access to these citizens be provided for by your department? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u30	Madam President, Ms Jadin, the subsidy to the Consumer Mediation Service was indeed reduced in 2015 to €364,000. The 2016 budget provides for EUR 368 000. Another reason given for this budgetary situation is the increase in the workload. I have received, at the end of last week, the latest figures on the number of claims for out-of-court settlement. Comparison of the numbers before and after the launch of the FPS Contact Point shows a significant increase. Between June 2015 and January 2016, an average of 412 requests per month had been received. For the period February to May 2016, this average is 603 files. The monthly number of files to be transferred to other qualified entities has more than doubled, from 105 to 232 files. It is a good thing that consumers are better aware of the mediation service as a central point of contact for mediation. It would not be correct to deny certain financial concerns that need to be addressed in order to ensure the effective functioning of the Consumer Mediation Service. By comparing his budget figures with the budget estimates made by my predecessor, I note a strong divergence in the contributions of the sectors. These are provided in return for the fact that mediation services are no longer paying rent since they moved to the FPS Economy buildings. An amendment to the law of Book XVI of the Code of Economic Law is required. I am working on this in order to be able to submit a proposal to this Parliament. Finally, to answer the question concerning our German speaking fellow citizens, the website of the Consumer Mediation Service is available in German. It is also possible to file an application for an out-of-court settlement of a dispute in German and it will also be processed in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u31	Mr. Minister, the question was initially addressed to your colleague, the Minister of Public Health, who obviously forwarded it to you. If there are good reasons for doing so, there are also some who do not justify it. I will see according to your answer. Today we are witnessing the development of ultrasounds made outside of any medical justification and characterized notably as memory ultrasounds. The Higher Council of Health issued an opinion on medical and non-medical prenatal ultrasound in 2013 and amended this opinion in April 2014. In particular, the Committee recommends that "obstetrical ultrasound be performed only for medical reasons. The conduct of ultrasound examinations during pregnancy should be limited solely for the purposes of screening, diagnosis and follow-up by trained ultrasound doctors and technicians." The Council therefore recommends that "ad hoc regulation be put in place so that properly trained ultrasound technicians can perform obstetric routine ultrasound in a medical environment and after appropriate training". The Council also recalls that "all ultrasound examinations must be carried out under the supervision and responsibility of doctors themselves adequately trained. This training should of course be defined in collaboration with professional associations". However, it is now possible to carry out an ultrasound of your unborn child at home: a compact scanner allows any pregnant woman to make an ultrasound from 16 weeks of pregnancy. This ultrasound takes up to 10 minutes but is performed three times a day. Even if the device has obtained the necessary certificates and even if the inventor of the device recalls that the device is intended exclusively for pleasure and not for medical purposes, this is intertwined. Indeed, there is no evidence that ultrasonic waves are harmful to a foetus, but while performing some ultrasounds on a pregnancy as they are performed today for medical follow-up does not pose a danger, there is no formal evidence that realizing these few ultrasounds is safe. Moreover, the Supreme Council of Health states that "there is still some uncertainty about long-term effects and for repeated exposures and that further studies on the biological effects of ultrasound used in prenatal diagnosis can be recommended". This means that, for reasons of protection in utero, this type of apparatus used not on a point-by-point basis throughout pregnancy, but in a repetitive or even intensive manner, presents, in my view, questions of risk. Secondly, beyond the use that may be misused by parents, the other problem is the information that this can bring to them. Once it is possible to interpret these ultrasounds again, it is not without risk in relation to how parents will be able to use them. Are you aware of the existence of this device? How do you position yourself? I think it is up to the Minister of Health to give a clear signal. That's why I asked him that question. So I can only regret that this question has been sent to you. On the other hand, since the government is constantly repeating that it speaks with one voice, I am waiting, minister, for you to take a position on this aspect as well. Referring me to the Minister of Health would obviously be unacceptable. You'll excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, I am also a little surprised that Mrs De Block did not provide the information you requested. To be very clear and direct, when there is a health problem, I can act as Minister of Economy. So I'm going to try to give more information, but it's a little weird anyway. As far as your first question is concerned, I learned about this device through the media. In response to your second and third questions, if the product meets the safety requirements of the relevant regulations, I see no reason to prohibit this product. In addition, in assessing medical risks and interpreting the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Health, I will draw on the health expertise of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. With regard to your fourth question, the presence of the information necessary for safe use is mandatory in accordance with the general regulations on product and service safety (Book IX of the Code of Economic Law): "The user must take this information into account". As far as your fifth question is concerned, if the necessary information allows the safe use of the product, there is no legal reason to prohibit it. Otherwise, I will take the necessary action. I have already made this very clear: when a health problem arises, I must immediately take the necessary steps, but it is not up to me to decree the existence of such a problem. Finally, I regret that you have not received a response from the Minister of Public Health or her administration. In any case, as the Head of the Economy and Consumer Protection, I have made myself very clear in trying to convey to you all the information and legal bases under which I can react according to my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u33	Minister, I find it amusing that when the government wants another minister to speak, everything goes well, but when it doesn't, each minister has to answer on his own behalf. It's a little complicated. All right! The opinion of the Supreme Council of Health dates from 2013 and 2014, not a month ago. If that were the case, I could understand your answer. Two years have passed and no initiative has been taken by the government. Frankly, the Supreme Council of Health has issued opinions, but I ask you to also listen to those of gynaecologists-obstetricians and experts. Most recently, Professor Camus of the UZ Brussel spoke in this direction. In addition, I would remind you that this device has received the necessary certificates. Official bodies have therefore looked at this new apparatus. I guess they had to at least ask themselves several questions. This has not been the case when these opinions exist. I find this particularly unfortunate. When you say, Minister, that there is certainly enough information given and attached to the device – I forget even the fact that a number of people never read this information – obviously this information does not come out and does not take into account the different scientific opinions that have been given. Indeed, as I was telling you, we can do an ultrasound for at least ten minutes, up to three times a day. This is obviously enormous in relation to everything that can be done at ultrasound exposure in normal monitoring and with adequate medical use and supervised ultrasound during pregnancy. I call on the government, on the Health and Economy side, regardless of the minister, to give serious consideration to this issue. What matters to me is the effectiveness, the results and the protection of the baby. If the decision that has been made and accepted has to be corrected and changed, it will be necessary to do so and everyone will have to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u34	You're right, Mrs. Fonck. I can assure you that I will contact Mrs De Block to find a solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u35	Mr Minister, one week after the Brussels government released several tens of millions of euros for some 30 exceptional support measures proposed by the Brussels Economic and Social Concertation Committee, it is the federal government's turn to announce the adoption of some 10 measures to support economic and cultural activity in Brussels following the meeting of a task force involving economic and cultural circles. In the very difficult moments that affect us, and more particularly the Brussels people, it is more necessary than ever to unite all the living forces. Can you give us a detailed picture of the government's actions that fall within your purview?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u36	Mrs Lalieux, the terrorist attacks of 22 March have had and still have serious consequences for the sectors of economic activity, in particular trade and horeca as well as the cultural sector. On April 22, the federal government announced a dozen measures to support economic and cultural activity following the attacks. At the end of the meeting of a task force involving economic and cultural circles, several initiatives were already known. They will be extended under certain conditions, such as deferment of payment of social contributions, implementation of tax measures or recourse to temporary unemployment. The measures within my jurisdiction obviously concern employment. Employers may make unconditional use of temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure until 30 April, and also in cases of a sharp decrease in the number of customers following cancellation or a sharp decrease in bookings. Force majeure remains unconditionally accepted for companies located in Brussels and Flemish Brabant until 30 June. I was asked to extend the automatic recognition of the situation of force majeure in Brussels and the Flemish Brabant. As Minister of Employment, I have asked the ONEM for an opinion on this. I will make a decision shortly on the basis of this one. A simple reference to the attacks of 22 March 2016 is sufficient. An exemption is provided for the seven-day period for prior notification and for employees. An additional possibility to benefit from the scheme is granted for unforeseen circumstances. Companies outside Brussels and Flemish Brabant must justify their demand for temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure. If force majeure cannot be invoked, there is still the possibility of economic unemployment. A temporary unemployment scheme for lack of work due to economic reasons may be asked whether, during the period following the attacks at the Brussels-National airport, it appears that only a gradual resumption of activities is possible or that activities are declining in other places of occupation, for example in the horeca sector following a sharp reduction in the number of reservations, subject to compliance with the procedures laid down. Temporary unemployment can be requested for both employees and workers. The workers concerned are exempted from the waiting period. They may therefore immediately benefit from the allowances, provided that they meet the other conditions. Mrs Lalieux, the most important thing for you seems to be that I asked the ONEM for an opinion. Once I have received this notice, I may decide to extend the date of June 30th.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u37	Minister, I hope the ONEM will respond positively because, as you know, tourists cancel their stay. This period extends in Brussels, as in Bruges. Reservations do not arrive, even if tourists return, but not 100% of them. Are you also going to ask to extend the use of unconditional temporary unemployment, which was scheduled until April 30, 2016? There are two possibilities: temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure and temporary unemployment without conditions. Did the opinion you asked for concern both of them? I think that these measures really need to be extended, at least until the end of 2016. This is important for Brussels and the Flemish Brabant, because the situation is not yet favourable to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u38	Minister, the legal guarantee of conformity of goods in Belgium has a duration of 2 years from the date of issue. However, we find that it is not easy for the consumer to assert his rights, not only because of lack of knowledge but also because of the bad faith of the seller. It is noted that the number of complaints decreased in 2015 compared to 2014, a year when awareness-raising campaigns had been particularly numerous. In addition, there are numerous complaints that the seller will only fulfill its post-sales obligations in the face of a particularly well-informed customer - otherwise a number of sellers will invoke all kinds of reasons not to comply with this guarantee. On the other hand, there are also big brands that do not hesitate to disinform consumers when buying by selling them a 3-year "guarantee" by telling them that the legal guarantee does not allow the exchange of a defective device, which is a lie. Minister, we see that awareness-raising campaigns are successful. New consumers enter the market every day. It is therefore necessary to inform them of their rights since sellers do not always do so. What are the prospects for 2016 and 2017 at this level? Are there any budgets for that? Are there "blind" controls on what sellers offer in terms of warranty? Can you tell me how many sellers have been sanctioned following a complaint about the legal guarantee? Texts for online purchases are being prepared at European level. It would be unacceptable to have differentiated guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, on the legal guarantee on consumer goods, in 2016 and 2017, in order to raise consumer and professional awareness of the regulation on legal guarantee, the SPF Economy provides the following avenues: to encourage consumers and businesses to use the established contact point; to develop empowerment to increase the autonomy of consumers, self-employed and SMEs; to develop guidance by providing advice based on experience, controls and contacts with target groups. There is no specific budget planned. These prospects therefore fall into the recurrent actions of the SPF Economy. At the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015, the Economic Inspectorate conducted a broad general survey on the information requirements of final sellers and the offer of commercial guarantees in the household appliances sector. For 2016, such a specific investigation is not planned. In 2015, 418 investigations, either on a complaint basis or on its own initiative or as part of the general investigation, resulted in 17 findings in the form of minutes and 13 transaction proposals. Four cases were sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the proposal for a directive in the context of online sales contracts, I believe that it is in the interests of both consumers and businesses, especially SMEs, that a single system be maintained. I therefore defend a common legal regime, whether consumer goods are sold remotely or in a store. Many Member States, including Belgium, have expressed their refusal to negotiate a different new guarantee scheme according to the method of online selling. Thus, the discussions in the European Council of Ministers that have been initiated deal only with the proposal for the provision of digital content. The former Consumer Goods Guarantee Directive of 1999 is subject to an evaluation exercise by the services of the European Commission. This REFIT Fitness Check of Consumer and Marketing Law exercise was launched on May 12th and ends on September 2nd. A public consultation is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. In view of the last point, it is appropriate to maintain a single system. It is important to be transparent and simple so that consumers and SMEs understand their rights. The position you take on behalf of Belgium satisfies me amply. It is useful to provide for information campaigns or other campaigns, as they guarantee the rights of the accused consumer. It is clear that these information campaigns are important, because they concern everyone and, on the other hand, the pressure on sellers should not be too much relaxed, as there are numerous complaints about this legal guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, my question was tabled on June 1. Since then, the Council of Ministers has met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u42	He's done a good job!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u43	You did work, but well, I don't know. I will complete the question which was tabled and which was more comprehensive. It must be recognized that authors and publishers are concerned about changes in the so-called reprography system. Previously, the system made it possible to pay the interested parties easily and equitably through the Reprobel system, due to a flat-rate participation of the professionals in the purchase of a reproduction tool and an additional remuneration proportional to the number of photocopies made. It should be noted that more or less 15,000 authors and dozens of publishers are involved here. Only a few multinationals of which HP opposed this system, in a dispute over the application of tariffs. Referred to by the Brussels Court of Appeal, the Court of Justice of the European Union asked Belgium to improve its system, but not to change it as a whole. However, it seems that Belgium is moving towards a fundamental change in the system in place by removing – if I understood correctly – the lump sum part of the remuneration and reforming the use of works for teaching. I draw attention here to the fact that all educational works are concerned under exclusive law and therefore outside the current system, which nevertheless allowed easy agreements. It also means that authors and publishers who live in our country – recognize it – and who are mainly devoted to this type of work or production will be completely penalized by the modification of the system that you have imagined. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are the country of comics, illustrated books, grammar, novels. These are therefore actors who bring added value to Belgium. According to the press release of the Council of Ministers, the flat-rate part is deleted without any proposal to compensate for this loss. To date, this represents a total of 24 million, i.e. – as I remember correctly – 14 million for lump sum remuneration plus 10 million for remunerations proportional to the number of photocopies. Minister, how are you going to offset these revenue losses? How will you support publishers and authors who devote themselves to educational, educational and educational works? How did you survey users such as SMEs, businesses, administrations, institutions about their ability to move to the new system you are proposing? I think it will be much more complicated than the current system. How will the system be sufficiently transparent and equitable for authors and publishers to find themselves there? I have not understood at all what comes from the Council of Ministers. You make a distinction between what is paper-based paper and what is printed from a computer. Until now, when a work is copied, i.e., a copy of a work from its computer, something that has been produced by an author, edited by a publisher, is printed. I do not understand that a distinction is made and that you deprive author and publisher of a fair remuneration to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u44	As Mr Foret is not present, his supplementary question No. 12340 without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u45	Minister, these are exactly the same questions. This will give us an opportunity to simplify and shorten the debate. Mrs Gerkens pointed out that the European Court of Justice's judgment condemned the Belgian system. You have announced, Minister, an amendment to this system. As Mrs Gerkens said, this allocated an equal amount of EUR 23 million. It's important to our creators. It was considered that the current conditions surrounding the royalty paid on each reproductive device were not sufficiently related to the actual damage suffered by the authors. This amount of 23 million is an important and fundamental resource for Belgian creation. I recall the case of comic books. There are 40,000 workers in this sector, Minister. It's not nothing. I join the authors and publishers who want the adaptation of the Belgian regime to preserve, in one form or another, the support given to the world of literary creation, failing which the only beneficiaries of this judgment would be photocopiers, that is, the large multinationals which have little connection with Belgium. In fact, questioned about the consequences of this judgment, these companies remained silent about a fall in prices that could have benefited consumers. I do not understand this decision of the European Court of Justice. It is a victory of multinationals over creators, an important sector in Belgium. Anyway, if there's nothing left to copy, I don't know who's going to buy photocopiers yet. But in any case, they won. Minister, what follow-up will you give to this judgment? Should publishers and authors fear a total or partial disappearance of the amounts collected? Do you consider it necessary to support the publishing sector in one way or another and to avoid a shortfall of several million euros? Do you work in consultation with representatives of this sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u46	Mevrouw de voorzitster, colleagues, it is true that we approved a draft bill on June 9. I hope that we will have time to discuss this in committee when the draft is introduced into Parliament. I can already give you information to better prepare the discussion in September. The actual damage suffered by the authors as a result of the application of the reprographic exception must be compensated in accordance with European law. This is not a point of debate. However, HP versus Reprobel requires several adaptations in order to bring Belgian law into line with European law. A draft law and then exclusion measures will therefore have to be drawn up in order to ensure that the Belgian legal framework complies with European law, which provides inter alia that the authors must be compensated for the damage caused to them by the application of the reprographic exception. All interested parties, including authors and publishers, will be consulted on the guidelines of this bill and on these enforcement measures. It is true that the authors' right to remuneration for reprography is insensitive, in accordance with article XI.239, paragraph 7, of the Code of Economic Law. I am not considering changing this rule or making rights management less transparent than it is today. The choice of whether or not to maintain a dual system does not belong to the Belgian legislature. Belgium is bound to comply with the HP v. Reprobel judgment and therefore sees its margin of manoeuvre limited, notwithstanding any protests regarding the consequences of the Court of Justice's decision. I am, of course, in favour of a proactive and innovative economic policy that uses the legal methods and possibilities available for the fair remuneration of rightholders, with regard to the exploitation of their works. At the same time, as has been mentioned, when works are exploited under an exception to their rights, the remuneration of rightholders can only be organised in accordance with European law. The HP v. Reprobel judgment requires several adaptations of Belgian law. The Court recalled what it had already decided in Padawan. Member States may introduce a charge on the importer of equipment if end-users cannot be identified. In concrete terms, these are domestic consumers and not professional end-users who already pay proportional remuneration. In its recital 85, the judgment also states that "a system combining a flat-rate remuneration fixed upstream and a proportional remuneration fixed downstream, such as that at issue in the main proceedings, must include mechanisms, in particular reimbursement, designed to correct any situation of overcompensation to the detriment of certain categories of users". In view of the practical difficulties and legal uncertainties associated with the collection of flat-rate remuneration and the administrative burdens which a reimbursement system would entail, it is proposed to abolish the flat-rate component of remuneration for reprography. However, it is premature to move forward on the measure of changes in amounts. The preliminary draft was first submitted to the Council of Ministers on 9 June. Publishers make investments in time and money to enable paper publications to be placed on the market. It seems to me legitimate to grant them a right to remuneration independent of copyright. But it is premature, at this stage, to mention the possible contours of such a right. I contacted all interested parties, including authors and publishers, as soon as the Court of Justice decided HP/Reprobel. They will be consulted again on the draft legislation, this time within the framework of the Intellectual Property Council. The Advisory Commission on Reprography will also be consulted on exclusion measures. Finally, on 9 June the Council of Ministers approved a preliminary draft law amending certain provisions of Book XI of the Code of Economic Law in the field of reprography. The main lines of the preliminary draft are as follows: - abolition of the lump sum remuneration; - any reproduction carried out in the family circle will fall into the private copying system; - no compensation for unlawful copies; - right to own remuneration for publishers, which does not affect compensation for the damage suffered by the authors; - and only one remuneration for all exemptions in favour of the old law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. The reassuring thing is that you intend to continue the consultations and that appointment will be taken. I hope that this consultation will have the real objective of consulting and then taking into account what will come out of it and not consulting to explain to people that it is not possible to do otherwise because it has been decided. This would be catastrophic for the world of publishing, authors and employment, as we have pointed out in our questions. I deeply regret that in the communiqué of the Council of Ministers and in your reply, it is not clear that it is clear that we will arrange for the amount raised to remain the same so that we can pay in a fair and just way – since this is the situation today – both authors and publishers, both of them being inseparable partners and each one in need of each other. In my view, this is a commitment that you must make: a system change with total remuneration maintained. The reaction and European law and the opinion of the European Court of Justice do not prevent the maintenance of the lump sum remuneration with another proportional remuneration. It does indeed require that there may be a possible correction. I regret that this system was not considered because it guaranteed at least the continuation of the system and the participation of all. One last comment on a subject that you did not mention in your answer: I cannot understand why an impression is not considered in the same way as a photocopy. A work has been written and edited, even if the publisher chooses the virtual path. There were authors, editors, if any, and reproductions on paper as for a photocopy. This must remain within the scope of the law. I don't understand the logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u48	Minister, thank you for the explanation. Consultation is really necessary, especially with regard to reproduction. The Intellectual Property Council employs people who are familiar with the trade and industry. Not only should they be consulted, their opinions sought, but they should also be heard. I know that there is already a draft bill, but their views must be taken into account in the legislation. One of the fundamental demands is that there is no loss of profits. It is a sector that is already in difficulty. It is an important cultural sector. We have creators on both sides of the country. Our publishers are increasingly in trouble. At some point, it is the State's duty to protect this sector. We cannot understand the European Court of Justice and Europe which... There are other systems, you have to be creative. Like the authors, the government must also be creative. We know what a directive is. Be creative! Save this sector and the €23 million it is receiving today. It's fundamental! It is also a matter of respect for those people who often make us experience beautiful adventures through their literature or comics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u49	Madam President, Minister, about a year ago I asked you a question about the rapid processing of payment transactions. As you know, a payment transaction now generally takes another working day. The reason for my question was then an ambitious proposal from the Dutch big banks to guarantee instant payments by 2019. These are transfers that would be placed directly on the beneficiary's account, even on weekends and public holidays, after a few seconds. In your reply, you said that the Belgian banks and the National Bank were investigating the impact of a quick payment on the existing infrastructure, as well as working on a vision document and a roadmap to enable rapid payments. Europe would also look for a solution, as payment traffic has already been highly harmonised at European level. Recently Bank Van Breda launched the so-called today's payment. This means that all transfers made before 15:00 to another Belgian bank will arrive the same day. This is not yet the same as instant payments, which should be the objective at present, but it gives rise to the following questions. Where are we on that file? Any progress? Have you had any contact with the sector to speed up this process? If not, are you planning to do this? What is the state of play in the European part of this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u50	Madam President, Mr Klaps, the maximum deadlines for the execution of transfers are laid down in the European directive on payment services in the internal market. For national payments, Member States may impose shorter deadlines, but you already knew that. The Directive provides that there may be a maximum of one banking day between the debiting and crediting of the respective client and beneficiary. In Book VII of the Economic Law Code, it was added at national level that debiting and crediting initiated electronically should take place on the same banking day when the debtor and the beneficiary each have their accounts with the same bank. Within this legal framework, which sets maximum time limits, banks may offer shorter time limits if they so wish in the context of their own commercial offer. In autumn 2015, Febelfin organised a prior study phase in the Belgian banking sector. On the basis of this study phase, a project "instant payments" was launched in January this year, with the aim of creating a range of products and exploring how and when instant payments can be offered in Belgium. The Belgian solution will be fully in line with the European project, based on the European payment sector, in particular the European Payments Council. They have drawn up a draft manual on which a public consultation is now under way. Once adopted, these will have to be respected by payment service providers wishing to join this payment schedule. It is therefore a kind of auto-regulation by the payment sector itself. This European manual, which lists, inter alia, the requirements for instant transfer, would be ready by November 2016, so that solutions can be offered on the market from November 2017. Febelfin argues that Belgium has not yet set a launch date. The project is progressing well and may be able to provide more information to the banking sector in the second half of this year. Of course, like you, I can only encourage the initiative that certain banks are taking to offer today's payments, as this is an important step forward and fits in with the digital economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u51	Mr President-in-Office, we have the same intention in this dossier. The system of auto-regulation is absolutely the best way to get things done quickly, with as little legislation as possible as it is not necessary. I am pleased to hear that steps are being taken forward and look forward to the further development of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u52	Madam President, Minister, some time ago, following the attacks of 22 March last in Zaventem and Brussels, I asked you a question concerning insurance cover in the event of damage caused by terrorism. In various insurance policies, the damage caused by terrorism is necessarily guaranteed. Insurers cover against the damage caused by terrorism by joining an insurance pool, the non-profit association TRIP. In addition, the Committee on the Settlement of Damages for terrorist acts also exists. The Committee shall be chaired by the Chairman of the Insurance Committee and shall be composed of a representative of the Minister for Employment and Economy and representatives of the OCAD, the FSMA and the TRIP non-profit organisation. The Committee shall determine the percentage of compensation no later than six months after the event. You told me last time that the Committee met for the first time on 28 April. There it was decided to pay out 100 % for the time being in terms of physical damage, 50 % for material damage and for the time being nothing for moral damage. You also said at the time that you could give me a follow-up question, because the Committee would meet again at the end of May to evaluate these percentages on the basis of new information available. I have therefore drawn up the following follow-up questions at your request. Has the Committee indeed come together again? Have these percentages been retained or any changes occurred? I understand that the maximum amount of 1.2 billion to be reimbursed would not be exceeded. Is it then decided to pay out all the damages, including the moral ones, or not for the time being? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u53	Madam President, Mr Klaps, I can be brief and hopefully clear. In reply to the first two questions, the Committee met on 30 May. That is an important achievement. It decided to retain the percentages proposed at the previous sitting. Once the formal decision has been signed, it will be officially transferred to the applicants and the TRIP vzw. As regards your third question, I can inform you that Article 7 (2) of the Act of 1 April 2007 on insurance against damage caused by terrorism provides that the damage to persons is to be compensated as a matter of priority and that moral compensation is to be reimbursed after all other damages at the time when the Committee determines that it has insufficient elements to assess whether the amount of EUR 1.2 billion is sufficient to compensate for all existing and future damages for the calendar year. This is reflected in Article 3 of the above-mentioned law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Do I understand that you say that there will be no decision on moral compensation before 31 December of this year? Or are additional documents still awaited in connection with these attacks? Or is it a possible new attack that will follow this calendar year? Just so we're clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u55	I hope there won't be another attack. I hope, along with you, that the moral damage can be paid out very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u56	We have no news from Mrs Grovonius. Her question No. 12207 therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u57	Mr Minister, the FSMA has conducted a sector inquiry into fire insurance in 14 insurers, which together collect 97% or almost the totality of home insurance premiums in Belgium, into simple risk-sharing housing, which is popularly referred to as home insurance or fire insurance. This shows that the insurance documents are often difficult to understand for the policyholder and that in some cases the documents contain provisions which do not comply with the legal provisions. For example, with many policies there was a problem with the decline of law. The insurer may determine the lapse of the right to intervene if the insured person has failed to fulfil certain obligations. However, these obligations were defined in a very general way by some insurers, which means that they do not comply with the required legislation. Other shortcomings were also identified. The FSMA has pointed this out to the insurance companies concerned and made recommendations. We have been able to hear this through the press. The aim was mainly to sensitise insurers and to initiate a change. At the same time, it was stated that if the recommendations were not followed, sanctions could be followed. Minister, what I have not found in communication is how the evaluation is planned. Is there a certain timing set? When and how will there be a possible evaluation of the awareness-raising campaign? What are the sanctions if insurers fail to comply with the recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u58	Mr Klaps, the recommendations contained in the FSMA Communication of 9 June 2016 mainly aim to raise awareness among insurers and initiate a change in order to draw up more comprehensible contracts. Consumers need to understand which risk derivatives cover their insurance and which do not. The FSMA will carry out a review of the legibility and comprehensibility of insurance contracts at the appropriate time. That investigation may cover both fire insurance agreements and other types of agreements. The problems of comprehensibility and readability identified are not limited to fire insurance. The drafting of contracts in clear and precise terms is also a legal requirement. Depending on the severity of the present case, the FSMA may take measures or impose sanctions. In any case, I can also recall the basic rule on unlawful terms in consumer contracts as set out in Book VI of the Economic Law Code. I quote: "In case of doubt as to the meaning of a term, the best interpretation for the consumer shall prevail." This is stated in Article VI.37, § 2. In addition, the FSMA may take remedial measures, such as the withdrawal or transformation of contractual or public documents which the FSMA finds to be inconsistent with the provisions drawn up by or under the law. If the problem has not been resolved within the deadline, the FSMA may take all appropriate measures and in particular prohibit insurers from concluding new insurance contracts or certain categories of insurance contracts. The FSMA can publish the measures it imposes and even impose periodic penalty payments and administrative fines. Moreover, I have already planned a consultation with the sector to see how we can further encourage the insurance sector to further simplify their policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u59	Minister, I think there has been a long way to go when it comes to policies. Whoever read a policy 15 to 20 years ago didn't know what it was about. I think that has been greatly improved. However, somewhat paradoxically, the continued extension of the scope of fire insurance to all kinds of side and side coverage sometimes complicates it. For the sector itself, it all sounds very logical, but for consumers it sometimes becomes complicated. I am therefore pleased that you, together with the sector, are looking for solutions to formulate this as easily understandable as possible, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u60	Madam President, Minister, we have also read reports on the Basel Committee's proposals. The Basel Committee laying down international standards for banks would draw up proposals to shift the risk of residential loans from banks to consumers. According to the Committee, consumers would bear too few risks compared to banks. There is a possibility of abolishing fixed-rate loans and of granting variable-rate loans only. In this way, the interest rate on loans would be more closely linked to market interest rates and the risks to banks would be reduced. This is, of course, correct in itself, but the fixed interest rate is an understanding in our country and this, of course, causes some concern. Do you have any idea of the exact proposals made by the Basel Committee? Or is this just a preliminary phase? Which proposals do you support and which, if any, do not? Next to the most difficult point, do you have any idea whether the fixed interest rate for residential loans can be maintained or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u61	Mr Gilkinet is not present, so his combined question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u62	Madam President, Mr Klaps, the Basel Committee is working in the wider context of the implementation of Basel III, the framework of regulatory standards that strengthened and developed prudential standards for our banks after the financial crisis, to improve the consistency and coherence of bank capital requirements. That is a good thing in itself. In this respect, the Basel Committee is continuing to finalise the Basel III framework by the end of this year. This would finalise an important milestone in the banking regulatory framework. The new proposal for a standard approach to the capital requirements of residential loans is more risk-sensitive than the existing framework. The calibration of this new standard approach may therefore have an impact on the capital requirements of banks for the provision of residential loans. The risk weighting, a determining factor for the capital requirements, would become a function of the loan-to-value ratio, comparing the amount of the loan granted with the value of the underlying property on the date of granting. The lower the amount of the loan compared to the value of the underlying property, the less credit risk associated with the loan. That's common sense, but it's been explained nicely, I think. Banks will thus have to set aside more capital for housing loans with a high loan-to-value ratio. The idea of eliminating fixed-interest housing loans or subjecting them to higher capital requirements is not on the table in the Basel Committee in the context of this reform. The fixed or variable nature of the interest rate would not play a role in the calculation of capital requirements according to the standard method. As mentioned above, the completion of these Basel standards is planned for the end of 2016. However, its transposition into European legislation and its implementation for European banks will take much longer. The adjustments are also likely to be phased in. Once these recommendations have taken shape, I will examine them with due attention. That's obvious! You will question me about that, too. That, too, is self-evident. However, it must always be borne in mind that consumer protection must be at the heart of the process and the necessary measures must therefore be taken to ensure that banks have a sufficient financial buffer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u63	Indeed, Minister, there are certainties in life, for which I am grateful. That loan-to-value is called in the beautiful Flemish quotity. I'm glad I can teach you a term. This in itself makes sense to me. A number of banks already apply this to their pricing. The lower the quotity, the lower the interest rate for the same loan. This does indeed make sense in itself because the risk is smaller. There are still a number of factors that do play a role. We have the mortgage registration and the mortgage mandate. There too there is a different risk. It seems logical to me that we should allow the banks to take a good look at their risk weighting and at the pricing of the risk weighting. On the other hand, we also want to preserve the consumer's ability to opt for as many interest rates as possible that he or she finds interesting. Today, in the Gazette of Antwerp, there is an article about single people who are finding it increasingly difficult to get a mortgage. This has to do with the need for banks to better cover their risk liabilities. It is a two-way story that we must keep a close eye on, but always in the first place from the consumer's point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u64	Deputy Prime Minister, it has been several years since citizens and trade associations expressed dissatisfaction with the one-and-two-cent coins. In 2012, in its edition of the year, the Eurobarometer survey, commissioned by the European Commission, highlighted the fact that 83% of Belgian respondents were simply in favour of the abolition of these coins. This dissatisfaction was mainly due to the impossibility of these parts. Indeed, while they are still often returned to consumers by traders, they are rather difficult to reusable afterwards, given their very limited value and both bulky in the wallets. On the traders' side, the opinions were hardly much more enthusiastic. Indeed, the costs associated with sorting, counting and transporting these coins to banks are relatively high in comparison to their value. In addition, handling one-and-two-cent coins can lengthen waiting times at the caisses. Since 2014, Belgian legislation has been aimed at discouraging the use of these coins, allowing traders to practice the so-called symmetrical rounding rule to a maximum of five hundred. It has thus been provided that traders may freely choose whether or not to adopt this principle, but if they do, they are required to clearly indicate to consumers, by means of a specific pictogram, the technique of rounding. The latter applies to both credit card and cash payments. As you know, it would probably have been easier to simply eliminate these pieces. However, our European commitments do not allow this. These coins are legally valid throughout the euro area and therefore cannot be unilaterally refused by any of the euro area member countries. On the other hand, the possibility of rounding prices is a good proposal put forward by the previous federal government. In response to a question I asked him about this on May 18, the Minister of Finance said that three-quarters of traders know that they can round out payments, but only 10% of these traders currently do so. In addition, 22% do not yet practice rounding, but intend to do so in the near future. You will agree, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, that these figures are quite low and, in my view, could still be significantly improved. With the information in your possession, can you confirm to us the figures advanced as to the percentage of traders who are currently using this technique? Have the general objectives been achieved in terms of discouraging the use of one-and-two-cent coins? What measures have been taken to encourage traders to apply rounding since the entry into force of this measure? Have new measures been defined or are they envisaged to further strengthen the limitation of the use of these parts? If so, could you provide me with the content? We are thinking, for example, of awareness-raising campaigns on free adherence to symmetrical rounding by traders, of the removal of the obligation of the pictogram in order to simplify the system or to allow a rounding for payments without the physical presence of the consumer, for example for online shopping. Do you have refined data on the effects of rounding prices for both consumers and traders, as well as on price inflation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u65	Mr Calomne, the data on which the Minister of Finance relied are unknown to me. The SPF Economy does not have any other figures or information, except that the number of complaints in this area is very low. The law of 18 December 2015 removed a significant obstacle to rounding. Since then rounding has been permitted regardless of the means of payment used by the consumer. According to the figures of the Minister of Finance, one in ten traders has since benefited from the opportunity offered to them, which is a great step forward. The number of traders intending to move to rounding is quite encouraging. I am not considering new measures to encourage traders to do so. Rounding is carried out on the total amount to be paid and not on the individual price of each product. The symmetrical rounding of the totals to be paid is neutral for the consumer and the trader. The consumer price index is based on individual product prices. Inflation is therefore not influenced. This was also the conclusion reached by the Awards Observatory in early 2014, when the measurement of symmetrical rounding was considered. The Price Observatory also felt that there should be no influence on the purchasing power of consumers. It does not have more precise data on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u66	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the various studies and data you have on consumer inflation or purchasing power indicate that the measure is neutral and does not impact them. However, at the level of action to be taken, a small effort could still be made to raise awareness and provide information. Maybe we have to leave time to the time. The measure is still recent. It is necessary to allow time for the first effects to manifest themselves. We will come back to you to see whether progress is being made and, if so, we will make proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u67	Madam President, Minister, according to a recent study by ING, an exit scenario from the United Kingdom of the European Union would result in a cumulative loss of growth of 0.3% to 0.7% over the period 2016-2017 for the Belgian economy, i.e. the time it would take to negotiate a friendly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. This is equivalent to a potential loss of activity of 1 to 3 billion euros. If Belgium appears to be one of the most exposed economies, it is because the British are our fourth largest trading partner after Germany, France and the Netherlands. The United Kingdom alone accounts for 5.5% of total Belgian imports and 7.7% of our exports. The sectors most affected by a fall in trade with the United Kingdom are vehicles, chemicals, machinery, plastics and food products. These sectors account for €6 billion in turnover and about 60,000 jobs. "These jobs would also be directly threatened because they depend on British demand," concludes the study. Another unpleasant collateral effect, apart from trade effects, can be feared: other channels would involve financial losses, particularly in terms of foreign direct investment. For example, Belgium's foreign direct investment stock in the United Kingdom accounts for about 7% of Belgian GDP, while income from these same investments represents 0.5% of GDP. Of course, all these assumptions are in a friendly separation scenario between the European Union and the United Kingdom. If, on the other hand, things are not going well politically or if negotiations are protracted, we could imagine even more depressing figures for the Belgian economy. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions, a few weeks from the referendum in the United Kingdom. Has your firm (or SPF Economy) studied the potential impact of a Brexit scenario on the Belgian economy and its impact on employment? If not, do you intend to do so and within what time frame? If so, what are the results of this study and could we have it? I mean, in relation to what you said this afternoon at the National Confederation of Construction, that you were in London yesterday to discuss Brexit. That's what you said earlier, so I guess you have something to tell us about it. This is my second question. In the event of an exit from the United Kingdom, what measures are envisaged by the Belgian Government in order to minimise the negative consequences of such a scenario for our country? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u68	Mr. Vanden Burre, you are well informed because you were at the National Confederation of Construction this afternoon. First of all, I can confirm that I am as worried as you about the impact that a possible Brexit will have on our economy. Various public studies show that our country, a major trading partner in the United Kingdom, with a large trade surplus, is likely to face a negative economic impact. A few months ago, the ING study to which you referred concluded that by the end of 2017, Brexit would cost the Belgian economy half a percent of GDP, about 2.1 billion euros more than the average cost of a Brexit for the countries of the Union, estimated by ING at 0.3% of GDP. This is due to our country's particularly close economic ties with the United Kingdom. This country was our fourth customer in 2015, and our exports amounted to 31.4 billion euros. With EUR 10.7 billion in 2014, Belgium had one of the largest trade surpluses with the United Kingdom, from all over the European Union. Our investment flows are also considerable. Between 2003 and 2013, this amounted to EUR 3.9 billion in reciprocal investment, generating almost 8 000 jobs, of which 4 800 by Belgian companies in the United Kingdom. Already today, uncertainty is influencing stock market prices and our trade. We are not even talking about years of uncertainty about the relationship between the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union that a Brexit would create. From my contacts yesterday with business leaders and bankers active in London, I was clearly able to see the concern created by the uncertainty and instability caused by the referendum of 23 June and its outcome, not only for the United Kingdom but also for the whole of the European Union and in a significant way for our country. It is difficult to estimate the economic impact of the referendum itself and the possible Brexit, as it depends on the reference points used. Another study by Euler Hermes-Economic Research of 18 May 2016 indicates that the impact will be moderate for the euro area, but that some countries, including Belgium, the Netherlands and Ireland, may be more affected. Our four most vulnerable sectors are automobiles, chemicals, machinery and equipment and the food industry. At this stage, I have not instructed my services to carry out such a study, given the many uncertainties. It is clear, however, that my administration and the various study services at our disposal are following this evolution and preparing for all eventualities. Once a democratic decision to leave the European Union is taken in the United Kingdom, my department will make an estimate of the economic consequences of the various negotiating scenarios, closely monitor the negotiations and support in substance the government's negotiating objectives. A negative result in the British referendum would not mean an immediate withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union, the Union must, in such a case, negotiate and conclude an agreement with the United Kingdom on the modalities for its withdrawal, taking into account its future relations with the European Union. Where appropriate, it is in the framework of the negotiations on this agreement that we should define the measures that will be necessary to limit the negative consequences for our country of leaving the United Kingdom of the European Union. In this respect, various options are open such as an addition of the United Kingdom to the European Economic Area (EEA), the conclusion of a bilateral trade agreement or a sui generis agreement. However, the issue would need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. In negotiating the terms of withdrawal, account must be taken of the economic relations between our country and the United Kingdom, but also, more broadly, of the effects this agreement could have on the process of European integration in general. The final impact for the United Kingdom and Belgium will therefore depend to a large extent on the final trade agreement to be drawn up. It should take a few years. The paradox of Brexit is that the most politically advantageous agreement is, at the same time, the most economically damaging for the United Kingdom. Given our country's close ties with the British economy, it seems to me logical that Belgium will seek to achieve the greatest possible stability for our economic relations. Unfortunately, we can expect negative economic consequences for our country and, following an intense trade relationship, they will be heavier than in most European Union countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u69	Mr Minister, I thank you for your long and detailed reply, in keeping with the importance of the issue of the British referendum. Polls are what they are, but we can see that Brexit is pretty much ahead. If the British ever decide to leave the European Union, it will be important for us to meet with the Committee on the Economy and other committees in Parliament to define the government's strategy in relation to the Belgian reaction in the case of a Brexit, which we do not call our wishes, but which unfortunately seems increasingly realistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic446x.u70	We agreed that the committee would last until 5:00 p.m. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 12320 and Question No 12320 Mrs Dierick's 12321 will be converted into written questions.
