ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we can begin our work today without considering what happened yesterday in Berlin. Unfortunately, we all know very well what is happening in our German neighbours because we have experienced this ourselves. This strange process of surprise, fear, mourning, contempt. A mixture of feelings. It is remarkable to see how terror itself and blind violence bring us back to a reality that we know exists, including in this country, and that it can strike at any time. I think it's important to keep seeing these moments too... que jamais la violet aveugle n'a pu résoudre aucun problème. I do not think we should give way either when it comes to respect for basic values.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another tragedy, another tragedy. Our thoughts go first and foremost to the victims and their families. It is blind violence against people who, in a moment of relaxation, in a moment of carelessness, shared a bit of pleasure in a Christmas market. Once again, this is the demonstration that we must be united and mobilized. All those who believe in the values of respect for life, all those who believe in democratic values, the values of the Enlightenment that we love, must be gathered in such a moment. I had the opportunity yesterday to communicate, on behalf of the Belgian people, our deep sympathy, our affection for the German population, mainly for the victims. And be convinced that the government will continue to do everything possible, in partnership with our European colleagues, to deal with this hateful and extreme violence. I would like to add this, Mr President, to your remarks and to the expression of sympathy and condolences addressed to the German people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a moment's silence, out of respect for the victims and in a way of sympathy for their relatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u5	I would like to propose a single discussion on these draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u6	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. There are several rapporteurs. The rapporteur on the budgets, Mr Klaps, has informed me that he is referring to the written report. The rapporteurs for the second amendment are Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van de Velde, who also refer to the written report. For the programme law there are several rapporteurs, all of whom refer to the written report. I thank them for reporting. In order to make the most of our work and activities, I intend to hold a break of approximately three-quarters of an hour at 12.30-1 p.m. and then another break for technical services at the beginning of the evening around 6 p.m.-7 p.m., it will depend on the speakers. There are therefore two breaks: one in the afternoon and one in the evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary work has not been simplified in the past year. The attacks with their impact on, first of all, the people directly affected, but more broadly also on our economy, have left their mark. The asylum crisis and the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union are not doing our economy any good. That makes the figures for 2016 what they are. Yet, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great difference with the policy of the previous legislature. At that time, the already high level of government debt, the share of public expenditure relative to GDP, increased by 1.8 % to as much as 55%, despite falling interest rates, even then. In the same period, from 2010 to 2014, the Netherlands was able to reduce its government debt by 2% to 45%, Germany to 44.4%. In Belgium, on the other hand, there was an avalanche of new taxes, which was spread over the citizen. Public revenue increased by no less than EUR 12 billion, or EUR 4 500 per household per year, fellow Members. In terms of savings, however, hardly anything happened. Since the start of the current government, public expenditure has fallen significantly, by almost 2%. This is accompanied by falling taxes. This also explains that there is still a budget deficit. Budgetary discipline is extremely important, you do not have to convince our party of that, but we have seen enough in the past that we cannot continue to tax deficits. There is such a thing as a maximum tax burden that someone wants or can suffer. If, by working or doing business, self-work in society is only punished, then the will is passed on, my fellow Members. We saw that last legislative term, because the number of jobs in the private sector fell. With fewer and fewer private jobs, there is a downward spiral. After all, the remaining jobs need to be taxed even more heavily in order to keep the state's hunger for money quiet, which means that more and more people and businesses are losing out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u8	Mr Klaps, there is an interruption by Mrs Temmerman. Mrs Temmerman, before I give you the floor, I would like to remind you of the agreement we made in the Conference of Presidents, first of all to keep the number of interruptions limited so that the debate remains clear and, secondly, to observe some time restrictions within the interruptions and therefore not to delay them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u9	Mr President, I will certainly follow those instructions. Mr Klaps, you have listed a whole series of figures for comparison, and I would like to supplement them. At the start of the previous government, the nominal deficit was 4.1 %. At the end of the previous government, that was 3.1 %, i.e. an improvement of 0.9 %. At the start of the current government, this deficit was 3.3 %. At present this is 2.3 %, i.e. an improvement of 0.02 %. The improvement in the previous government from 1.09 % to an improvement now of almost zero, i.e. 0.2 %. You will point out that the structural deficit actually needs to be looked at. I will not repeat the figures for this, but the improvement under the previous government was 1.25 %. The improvement under the current government is 0.14%. So it goes from 1.28 % to 0.14 %. I would also like to mention the inflation figures, which were better than the European average under the previous government. Now we are well above the European average. In terms of employment, you also report that it is going well and that jobs will be added. However, when you compare it with the previous government, you have to give the right figures. Mr Klaps, under the previous government, employment was 1% higher than the euro area, now it is 0.5 percent below the euro area. If you make comparisons, then make the right comparisons. We were also above the European average in terms of growth under the previous government and are now below the European average. The reduction in the government deficit was better and greater than that of the current regime, Mr Klaps. I can continue to give you figures, but I'm going to stick with that. I would like to inform you of that, so that we can talk about the correct figures. You say the interest rate was low back then, too. At the time, however, it was not at all as low as it is now. At that time, however, the economic crisis was much worse than today's.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u10	Mr President, I agree with what has just been said by our colleague, Karin Temmerman. I remember that in 2014, in the N-VA program, it was stated that on behalf of the goed bestuur, budgetary balance had to be respected in order not to leave debts to future generations and not to pay interest unnecessarily. Over the past two years, billions of savings have been made in a climate of austerity to achieve, in terms of improvement, a minimum balance of between 0.02 and 0.03%. This is the figure put forward by Minister Jambon. Billions of savings, many efforts have therefore been imposed on the population to ensure that, in the end, the deficit is not reduced. Under these conditions, what about the goed bestuur?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u11	I feel like there's gonna be some interesting discussions. The historical memory of a number of Members of this House, in particular, is somewhat lacking. Mrs Temmerman, if you are talking about job creation and employment rates vis-à-vis Europe, then I have to tell you that the previous governments have taken one good short line, which we have also defended and even supported from the opposition. That was temporary unemployment during the period in which the crisis was incredibly severe. That has given us an advantage in the short term. What, however, have these previous governments left behind? If you want to make the comparison with the other European countries, then you must also be honest. The other European countries have prepared themselves to support the economic climate, employment and competitiveness in the long term. You've written a story to save people in the very short term. That has been achieved and we have supported it. In the long term, however, you have not strengthened this competitiveness, which means that we are effectively lagging behind in relation to Europe today. This is a catching-up race that this government is doing and which I am very pleased with, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u12	Mr President, two elements. I hear Mr Klaps start with the traditional excuses of the attacks and the asylum crisis that have been underestimated. Mr Klaps, you could have listened to my intervention in discussing the 2016 budget, where I said it was ridiculous to say that this was a one-off expenditure and that the amounts entered for it were far too low, which has now been shown to be too low. So you shouldn't be surprised by the shortage. Secondly, a number of figures. We are referring to the past, and rightly so, but this does not condone the current situation when we look at economic growth in neighbouring countries and when we compare it with the much lower growth here. So I have a specific question, in addition to Mrs Temmerman's figures. The output gap in this country is a very good indicator of the state of the economy, a very good indicator of the health of the economy. There we see, in terms of under-stressing that economy, that this year we were at 0.3% of GDP and that next year's forecasts are even deteriorating to 0.5% of GDP. The economy is therefore falling even further back in next year's forecasts, firmly below its potential. I would have liked to know from Mr Klaps what the explanation is, because you cannot come again with attacks or an underrated asylum crisis. This is purely economic and financial, and I would have liked an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u13	Mr President, perhaps a few comments. Mrs Temmerman, I did not say that during the previous legislature there were no jobs added, only those were government jobs, subsidised jobs for the biggest part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u15	The deficit has indeed fallen because a whole jump-off in new taxes on people has just been shaken. With 12 billion in new taxes, the record would still have gone up. Mrs Pas, allow me to return immediately to your question about the situation of the present and the future. I have just begun my speech, and I think I have some time to discuss this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about fewer private jobs during the previous legislature, which, of course, will lead to a downward spiral. After all, the remaining jobs must be taxed even more heavily in order to keep the hunger for money of the State quiet. More and more people and companies are losing their jobs. The Walloon Government's plans to introduce 4/5 jobs, while maintaining wages, make it clear that some have still not understood this lesson. That is why I would like to say the following. As long as Brussels and Wallonia insist on pursuing a socialist policy driven by Marxist-inspired extreme left, they will continue to impoverish and the gap with Flanders will continue to widen. One might then ask whether it is not good for the N-VA if the difference increases. But instead of making strategic reflections, it really hurts me to see how Walloon politicians continue to waste their future. That is why it is so important, ladies and gentlemen, that this federal government chooses a different path, the path of a sustained recovery policy. Last year we discussed the tax shift in detail here. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that all the economic parameters are about green. There are more investments, fewer bankruptcies, more start-ups than ever and despite all the stories on the left, purchasing power is increasing. This year there was a real increase of 1.4 %. The National Bank's forecasts also show a real increase of 1.6 % and 2.2 % respectively for 2017 and 2018. We see this most clearly in the number of jobs, i.e. 200 000 new jobs in this legislature. That is a net figure, ladies and gentlemen, despite some major redundancies as we saw with ING and Caterpillar. I will be happy to answer the criticism, Mrs Temmerman. It is true that in other European countries there are sometimes more jobs, but we have come a long way. Countries like Germany and the Netherlands have been ahead of us for years in saving and reforming. On the left-hand side of our country this was said to be a disgrace. However, these reforms have been initiated in Germany by the Socialist Schröder and have also been implemented in the Netherlands in coalitions with socialists. These countries have made it clear to us that they are better reformed in time, and they are now clearly reaping the benefits. That is why we must continue along this road. Yes, we would like it to go a little faster, but with a government debt above 100 percent we fight a game with one hand tied behind our backs and that is not so easy. Because we focus as much on structural savings as possible, the effects are seen very slowly. The much-needed pension reform, for example, does not generate any short-term difference but does address long-term ageing costs. The average growth in pension expenditure in recent years was 4.5 % a year, which meant that the government had to find 1.3 billion euros in each budget format, just to finance growth. That is why pension reform is so important. What a difference, by the way, with the famous Silver Fund, which we abolished last week after 15 years of suffering. An empty box that only cost us money, even this year. In the 2017 budget, we will continue along this path. The focus is on the much needed savings. This also makes sense with a government asset that is still above 50%. In this sense, it is strange that the opposition's criticism is always about a lack of revenue. One can, of course, focus on each individual line in the budget and find that the amount proposed is not being met everywhere. Let me make this very clear, Mrs Temmerman. The Stability Pact proposed at the beginning of this year to achieve 50.8% of GDP in revenue. Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to the European Commission, we are achieving 50.8% of GDP in revenue this year. On the revenue side, therefore, the report is reasonably positive. Overall, the problem is certainly not there. My colleagues from the opposition, say it if you want us to go for more revenue or increase the public debt, as under Di Rupo, but do not give up the whim about shifting taxes in the context of fair taxation. That doesn't help to close the budget deficit by a millimeter. It was striking to see how last Sunday in the studios of the VRT Mr Calvo and Mrs Kitir could not answer that question. They kept swimming around it. I am therefore curious to hear what they will say about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u16	Mr Klaps, Mrs Pas wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u17	Mr Klaps, you say that the opposition has no savings alternatives. I would remind you that last year we tabled a whole series of amendments to the 2016 budget on matters that could have been saved, because the biggest problem is indeed on the expenditure side, which does not prevent you from having a problem on the revenue side. Income is systematically overrated. You just cited the tax shift. Perhaps you could give me a tip of the veil on that? How will it be financed? You know as well as I do that the sugar tax should yield 200 million for that, but it has now been removed in silence. You also know that excise duties would contribute to the financing of the tax shift, for 460 million, but that revenue is seriously disappointing. The excise duty on alcohol brings much less than I predicted last year. People are going to make purchases abroad and only 400 million are being collected. I would therefore like to know from you how the tax shift is financed, because the relay measures to which you referred appear to have been bought on the poof. I'd like an explanation for that. I have a second specific question. You just referred to the job creation. Can you then give me an explanation for the not improving unemployment rates? Why are these estimated at 7.9 to 8.2 % for 2017? This is again not an improvement in this year's figures, i.e. 7.9 to 8.3 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u18	Mr President, I cannot blame Mrs Pas. Her group is not here with many Members. It may not have been there when the European Commission came to tell us that the unemployment figures used by this government have been assessed very calmly and that on the negative side, which will improve both growth and employment next year. Mrs Pas, come by next time and we'll have a good time, and you'll know how the numbers are coming together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u19	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I am glad that Mr Van de Velde spoke just before me, because if you refer to the European Commission's report so much, you have to quote it correctly. Both the European Commission and the Court of Auditors have said that the problems we have today are largely the result of misjudging revenue. Mr van de Velde, I repeat what the European Commission says about tax revenue and specifically about the tax shift: 'have not been fully compensated'. In other words, the tax shift is not fully funded. Mr Klaps, I do nothing but give figures, but it may be good to put them in the right context, something you do less. The same is said by the Court of Auditors, the National Bank and the Planning Bureau and was also mentioned in the past by the Monitoring Committee. However, your Minister, this government and yourself in this gallery continue to say that there is nothing wrong with that revenue. Mr Klaps, not even half of what has been proposed is being achieved. You can say it's always estimates. That's right. They are always estimates, but these estimates were predicted that they would not be reached, again by the Planning Bureau, the Court of Auditors and the Monitoring Committee. You, your government, and certainly your minister, are constantly in the wind. As a result, we still have a deficit that we will not catch up with in 2017. If you are so keen to refer to the European Commission, the European Commission says that the deficit was not overtaken in 2016 and that it will be almost impossible to catch up in 2017. By the way, she says in her report that she doesn't believe this and that a balance in 2018 is completely unfeasible. That is what the European Commission and the Court of Auditors say. Please, if you quote numbers and quotes, please the right ones!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u20	Mr President, I note that on the left we would have preferred not to have seen this tax shift and that we had not given the low income any more net income. Mrs Temmerman, the answer is very simple, there was 50.8% of GDP in terms of revenue, we are achieving 50.8% in terms of revenue. One can indeed discuss any rule. It is true that, when one goes to a new policy, to a turnaround, it is a little more difficult to predict. I'll come back to that later, no problem at all. However, you should not say that we have a problem in terms of income. Mrs Temmerman, either you say that we should reverse this tax shift and not give lower incomes a higher net wage, or you say that we should raise taxes because we are not bringing in enough now, and we should therefore tax a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u21	Mr Klaps, you have just said in the Chair that there is no problem on the revenue side. Weren't you there during the meetings? Have you not read the European Commission's report? Haven't you read the Court of Auditors' report? Do you continue to claim that there is no shortage, that there is no problem on the revenue side? Do you dare say that here in black and white? Secondly, I never said, my party never said, and as far as I know, the entire left never said that we are not in favour of a tax shift. On the contrary, we are in favour of reducing the burden on labour. We are absolutely in favour of this. However, we do want the overall framework to be preserved. We also want to see who will pay for this. Now you lower the burden on labor and let the common man pay you this. That is what you are doing, and we are critical of that. We have no criticism whatsoever of the fact that additional jobs will be created. On the contrary, there should be many more. But the question is who pays for these additional jobs. There must be a fairer distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u22	Mr Klaps, first of all, I do not like you taking a stroll with our programme, so I am going to stress this very quietly: the difference of opinion lies in the financing of the tax shift and the application of the tax shift, not in the principle of whether or not the burden on labour should be reduced. I think there is almost unanimity on this in this House. Secondly, you say that if you do new things, the risk of a difference between assessment and reality is greater. You said that, and I agree with that. That is certainly the case with your fiscal strategy, where a lot of new farms are being built and where we face new tax measures every six months, after a period of uncertainty. This indeed increases the uncertainty and it may be disappointing in practice. That's right. I'm glad you can see that, too. The problem is that you continue to deny the Van Overtveldt problem. You will then tell Mrs Temmerman that she wants to raise taxes, that the opposition wants to increase taxes, that there are no revenue problems, that there are only expenditure problems. You will forget, of course, that the problem of income was not only pointed out by us. The Court of Auditors says so in its documentation. It is annoying for them, but also for us, to be systematically confronted with an N-VA that ignores the problems of income. These problems are also identified by Eric Van Rompuy and the CD&V group. The problems of financing the tax shift were also regularly identified by Mrs Wilmès. It was almost touching to hear the version of Wilmès and, on the other hand, the version of Van Overtveldt side by side in the Finance Committee. Mr Van Overtveldt keeps saying that the tax shift has been financed, but Mrs Wilmès is much more honest and open in that respect. The problems are also identified by the Court of Auditors and the European Commission. That is why my invitation to you today, Mr Klaps, would help if you did not deny the problem. This would help to move forward in the coming period in a problem identified several times by various actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u23	I sensed it, I said earlier today that there would be interesting discussions. First of all, I would like to give the following to the deniers of light. I don't know about your home, but if we make a little plan at home that's right at the end of the month, we don't yell at each other that there's a problem with income. I think it's a rather absurd discussion. If one starts with an amount in mind and gets that amount, then there is no problem. What has happened, of course, is that internal relations have been changed. That has to do with the market situation. The costs of terrorism and migration are estimated by external institutions at around EUR 2.4 billion. That's 0.6% of GDP. In normal circumstances, we can realize conversion and there is talk of going concern. I would remind you that during the period of the attacks here in Brussels there were no catering activities, no apartment was sold and no office was rented for four to six weeks. It was calculated that this amounts to 0.6% of our GDP. If we're gonna make it, we're gonna have to close the books. Then I'll come back to the housekeeping situation. I think it's very funny that politicians, once they're here, forget what's going on in real life. If you make your budget at home and people are talking about it, it has nothing to do with the revenue. Then the partners won't yell at each other that there should be more revenue. No, damn it, they're gonna save money, that's what they do. If one sees that the shit hasn't been turned to shit, then one has to start with the fucking shit. It is very easy for politicians to call for more revenue. Well, I'm glad you admitted that you want to tax more. If we want to solve the problem in a different way, then we need to tax more, there is no other way. On the contrary, we must continue to save.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u24	Mr Van de Velde, I think you're putting it rather flat. I never said there should be more burden. You're going on the populist tour, and I'll do that. Perhaps you could start by giving less gifts to Electrabel, which would help us a long way. For example, I can mention a few more examples. After that interjection, I'm going back to the gravel. (Protests from Mr Van de Velde) Mr President, do I have the floor or not? If I have the floor, perhaps you can make that clear to Mr Van de Velde as well. Mr van de Velde, I would like to return to the problems of the attacks and asylum and migration. It is true that these problems have struck our country very hard in every respect. However, I must point out that both the European Commission and our own National Accounts Institute conclude that we have overcome these problems quite quickly. That shows our resilience. In other words, you cannot use these problems as an excuse. That is what the European Commission is saying. Moreover, this excuse, especially as regards asylum and migration, applies to many countries in Europe, and unfortunately the problem of the attacks also applies to some countries. If you do not believe me, I can quote the Institute for National Accounts: "A number of measures have given a positive purchasing power effect, although this is partly offset by, among other things, the VAT increase on electricity," which has nothing to do with the attacks, the increase in indirect taxes and the index jump." The Institute of National Accounts concludes that the impact of the problems of the attacks and asylum and migration on our economy after a number of months and certainly at the present time has actually been quite minimal. In addition, the European Commission states, in connection with the "risk of significant deviation', that "refugees and security does not change this conclusion'. In other words, you cannot use that as an excuse for the lousy budgetary work you are doing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to give the floor to all of you. I am absolutely in favour of the debate. However, I would like to remind you of the agreement to keep the number of interruptions as short as possible and as limited as possible. Mr Klaps has been here for quite some time. He should have completed in theory around this time, but I keep track of the interruptions. So he's got a while to go. Those who ask for the floor can, of course, get it; that is the obvious self.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u26	Mr President, I will try to keep my head down. The only thing I actually wanted to ask Mrs Temmerman is about the temporary reduction of VAT on electricity, which is actually a battle point in the election campaign of a number of people in the previous government. That was a temporary measure. I would ask Mrs Temmerman to do this, but I am not allowed to do that. What would you have done now? Would you go through with that measure? How would you fund it? Mrs Temmerman, if you are having a debate, you must have the courage to do it honestly. You continue to insist on those measures, which you yourself have overestimated and which have corrupted part of the account. You even organized the index differently. Well, the index jump was actually a much more purer way to conduct policies than the way in which you dealt with things internally. Now that all this has come to light in the meantime, I'd be a little quieter in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u27	I'd like to take another tip out of it. The persistent story that the tax shift is paid by the common man, of course, doesn't add up. Despite all the measures taken, the net purchasing power is improving, Mrs Temmerman. Those are also figures, which you can find at the National Bank. Instead of always talking about more taxes, I think that a government should first look in the mirror before deciding who has to pay what tax. Being honest with the citizen and against businesses means asking only the taxes that are needed to make the State function properly. As long as our government debt is at the top of the world, I don't think it's fair to always ask for more taxes. It seems, however, that we differ on this point. Instead of taxing more, the government is committed to real economic growth by improving the structural balance of the federal government. We are improving employment by reforming and modernising the labour market. With the reform of the wage standard law, the so-called 1996 law, we are building up our historical labour cost handicap and with the law on manoeuvrable and workable work, we are adapting the labour market to the 21st century, to the benefit of employers and workers. With the reform of social security funding, we are putting an end to the tradition of social agreements, the cost of which is simply passed on to the State, and thus to the taxpayer, and thus to the small man. These are structural reforms that are important for the long-term recovery of public finances, as demonstrated by the above-mentioned pension formation. I will look at the Court of Auditors' comments on a number of issues. I will focus on some fiscal measures. That is what has always been discussed in the Finance Committee. I shall refer to the abolition of the speculative tax and the adjustment of the stock market tax, Mr President. The speculative tax was an example of an erroneously conceived tax. It will be included in the economic manuals in the list of so-called just taxes that do not produce anything but cost money on the contrary. The proceeds of the speculative tax are, after all, lower than the decline in the proceeds of the stock exchange tax. This is bad for public finances, and it is bad for the economy, because especially in small and medium-caps, the volumes traded fell sharply. In return, we raise the ceilings for the stock market tax. Those who will soon buy a package of 600 000 euros of shares will pay 1 600 euros of stock market tax instead of 800 euros now. For those who make a purchase of EUR 5 000 or EUR 10 000, nothing changes. The adjustment applies only to large investors, which creates a tax on assets that the middle class saves. Here again we close another back door. The stock exchange fee also applies to transactions through foreign intermediaries. In this way, we ensure a level playing field with our domestic brokers. Moreover, the problem of speculation tax shows how difficult it has become in this overtaxed country to levy new taxes, certainly new taxes on something as liquid as capital. It also shows that some's plans to make the rich pay more will only lead to more rich people leaving the country, less tax revenues, and a deficit that will eventually have to be matched by the hard-working Fleming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u28	The rediscovery of the hardworking Flame by Mr Klaps is touching. You really have no lessons to teach in this House. If you have severely caught the part-time working mother or man in this legislature, then you have little reason to speak when it comes to protecting and strengthening the hard-working Fleming. All these savings in social security also affect that hardworking Fleming. There is also the Turtel tax, the more expensive childcare and the child benefit that is not indexed, so you have little right to say that the hardworking Fleming would pay much more in opposition plans. Mr Klaps, I think it is very difficult to make the hardworking Fleming pay more than with your reign programme. I'm pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u29	That is again the same old tale that we have heard three times today, Mr Calvo, and I have not been working for half an hour. The tax shift gives the low income a higher net income and more purchasing power, Mr Calvo. I've lived in the real world for 20 years before I was here, Mr Calvo, and I've worked with people of all rank and rank. I've seen that it's hard indeed. It is not easy, but just for that category we are committed to improving the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u30	Mr Klaps, the invoices do not mention you, and there is the reduction in our social security, health care, the savings in pensions and the way in which you push people on low pensions, not to mention women who have worked part-time, into poverty. It may be that purchasing power may have increased a little, but did you know that the median income is not the average but a more serious view of society in 2015 has fallen for the first time in a very long time? Do you know what that means when the median income drops, Mr Klaps? That means that the difference between the ones at the top, the rich, and those at the bottom is getting bigger. This is done thanks to the measure taken by your government, Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u31	Mrs. Temmerman, I would like to respond to that. We live in almost the most redistributing country in the world in terms of taxes. I would like to talk about social security and pensions. In the past, I've heard a socialist say "I know what to do to save pensions," but if I do, I'll never be re-elected. We'll do that, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u32	The technique of that median income is based on the tax returns. For the sake of clarity, this is about the income of 2013. I am extremely glad that Mrs Temmerman is putting the finger on the wound in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u33	I welcome the fact that there is a debate. However, the system in which one of the parties speaks to be corrected each time by one of the same party, in order to monopolize speaking time, is not the normal way of working. It's like a duo job in here. We agreed that everyone should be given their speaking time. This way, however, you simply take away the time from others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u34	Mr Vande Lanotte, I would like to say that I keep an accurate record of the speaking time. No one's gonna waste any time. The debate is what it is, with the agreements we have made on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u35	Mr Klaps, I hear you speak with great enthusiasm about the hardworking Fleming. But wouldn't you speak better of the much-paying Fleming? When I look at the revenue side, I see a charge increase on fuel cards. As you know, it will be paid almost entirely by Flanders. As you know, there are more commercial vehicles in the province of Antwerp, by the way, in your constituency, than in the whole of Wallonia. The increase in withholding tax, which has doubled from 15% to 30% over a period of six years, is referred to by Alain Mouton van Trends as the most Community of all taxes. This is a tax that will be paid mainly in Flanders. The stock market tax, which you mentioned earlier, is also a tax that will be paid mainly in Flanders. So instead of talking about the hardworking Flemings, perhaps you should put your hands in your own bosom and talk about the much-paying Flemings. I think this would be much more correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u36	It is precisely for this reason that we are moving forward with the reform agenda, because that is the only way to bring it down ever, Mr Vuye. When we talk about the mobility budget...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u37	Another small reply from Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u38	Mr Klaps, we are talking about 2017, not 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022. You are not answering my comment at all. These are all taxes that will be paid largely in Flanders. And with a Flemish nationalist party in the government, congratulations. I understand very well that you're trying to hide that, but fortunately there are people here who do expose everything you're trying to hide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u39	Mr Vuye, the 2017 budget is 20% based on new revenue and, for the rest, savings. There have indeed been a number of increases in charges. That's right. We are not happy with that and we hope that we can reduce it, that we can leave it at a later stage, but in a situation like today, we must continue to do so. I wanted to say something about the mobility budget, because that is what you were talking about, and about the problems of the company cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u40	Mr Klaps, that is not what this is about. It is not about us having to do it and there will be additional revenue. It is about, and I have still not received an answer from you, that these additional revenues will mainly be paid by the Flemings, as well as the withholding tax and the stock exchange tax and the tank card.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u41	Mr Vuye, the increase in the stock market fee is only on the ceiling, i.e. for orders from EUR 600 000 in shares. This happens not only in Antwerp, but also in Walloon Brabant. I'm pretty sure of that, so I think the story might be a little more nuanced than you bring it, but I understand you want to play this in your new role. I was with my explanation regarding the company cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u42	Mr Klaps, I cannot help it, but Mrs Pas asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u43	Mr Klaps, you say the story is nuanced, but now take the fuel cards and the commercial cars. I remember that Di Rupo, as a formatter, wanted to tax the commercial vehicles and that the N-VA was on its back feet at that time, because only 15% of the company car is in Wallonia, the rest is in Flanders and Brussels. When one speaks about changing roles, you are very good at changing roles, because you will now tackle the company car via the tank cards, mainly in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to move on, but if I keep getting interrupted, it will be difficult. I just got my explanatory notes on the company cars. I would like to recall why we are champions of the number of commercial vehicles in our country. That is because of the high wage costs, the high wage costs and the tax fare. First people have incredibly high tax scales and then, instead of seriously addressing them, they start handing out sweets, sweeteners as it were. There are the meal cheques, the ecocheques, the service cheques and also the company cars. All this was introduced to solve a piece of the problem called tax burden. In the case of firm cars, it is soon said that they are taxed favourably, that they should be dealt with, that they should be increased. One forgets what its original purpose is. It is clear, therefore, that the abolition of the company car system is indiscusable to us as long as we do not manage to substantially reduce the wage burden. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sensitive to the environmental and mobility argument. It is illogical that someone gets a company car, while he can also make the commuting quality by public transport or bike. That is why we will now be working on a mobility budget, in which the workers concerned will be able to choose how they can benefit from it. Then I'd like to talk about the redesign. Mr Vuye, I will be ahead of you in that respect. After all, we all agree that there are efficiency gains to be made by the government. Measures are therefore being taken whose proceeds are being reinvested to improve their operation. But it does take more time than expected to get a stuck bureaucracy in the story. For the sake of clarity, that is a responsibility for the whole government, for all parties, for all ministers. We therefore hope that everyone will do their bit to scrape away the rust. In that story, we need to get the officials involved to make it a success. So I would prefer us to slow down a little bit and build up a powerful government together with all the players, instead of carrying out a policy of big announcements, which later turn out to be nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making a difference also in the area of tax fraud, because the effective collection of attacks is much higher than in the past. I also invite the united opposition to co-sign the N-VA legislative proposal to establish a public register of professional bans, which is ready. With this public register, we can tackle the hard core of fraudsters, which not only affect the public authorities but also the private sector. The paper classification at the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises was abolished by the Minister for Economic Affairs in the previous legislature. Warriors no longer have to deliver their judgments to the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. However, it is like the real fraudsters and crooks who are constantly making victims. With that bill, we can deal with that. I therefore hope for your support if you are in favour of a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u45	Mr. President, Mr. Klaps, I'm listening. Nevertheless, I still do not hear an answer to the question that I asked you and was waiting for in your presentation. Indeed, the majority has like a kind of magic wand to make the money disappear in contrast to the goed bestuur. Over the past two years, austerity measures and budgetary efforts amounting to €9 billion have been implemented, not to mention the €1.8 billion in tax shift funding in 2016. You reduced the balance by 0.02 or 0.03%, that is, by one hundred million. So you asked the population for an effort of nine billion and you reduced that amount by one hundred million. Where did that money go and with what magic wand did you make those nine billions disappear?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u46	It is very simple, Mr Van Hees: there has been a reduction in charges. If we had not actually implemented a tax reduction, the budget would have been broadly balanced. But we're not there yet. Coming from a party with an economic programme that will cost us 50 billion, this criticism is, of course, not credible. You will, of course, tax everyone until there is nothing left and then we can all, like Venezuela, cozyly storm the food store.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u47	Mr Klaps, that's where you come in. You just asked how we would do it. You say every time we raise taxes. I haven't spoken that word yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u48	I didn't speak to you, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u49	I said for a moment that you could ask Electrabel something. Another thing I am pleased that you mention is, of course, tax fraud, which is the worst or most destructive form of not joining society. You fully agree with me on that, for which I am grateful. It is therefore strange that, first of all, your Minister and your Government, this is the minimum requirement not even to have a separate policy paper on tax fraud, but that the subject is as a whole. This already proves that the fight against tax fraud is regarded as an appendage. Secondly, the College which should tackle both social and fiscal fraud has only met twice. This also indicates that the money will not actually be sought there. In April, a task force was set up to take action against tax structures. We all know, because Mr Vanvelthoven asked a question about it: after eight months it is still not there. When we look at the measures on tax fraud, we see that they are almost non-existent. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Court of Auditors says. The Court of Auditors states that another EUR 50 million will be entered in the accounts for tax fraud, but cannot really verify whether that is true, because it is not given an explanation of the measure. I know that this is very difficult to assess, but one does not even get the measures in themselves. In terms of policy, that is very strange. Even more so, even if your Minister is in favour of the interdisciplinary approach, as we all are, because it would make it easier to tackle social and tax fraud, we note that the government now wants to abolish the multidisciplinary teams. Perhaps for the next budget, in order to put things in order, you should look at measures and revenues in this area, instead of all the measures you are now putting forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u50	Mrs Temmerman, I agree with you: tax fraud is the most pernicious form of tax avoidance or tax evasion. I think we all agree on that. However, I have to say that, in four months' time, the current government will pay more for overdue and evaded taxes than in a full year before, so I think we are on the right track. Mr President, I am trying to pick up the thread of my speech again in order to remain within the speaking time allotted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about health care, because there have also been comments on this issue. The growth standard in health care for many years was 4.5 %, on top of inflation. In those years of virtually unlimited money, there is an inevitable build-up of inefficiencies. That is why we now have an opportunity to save in this area without touching the patient and in a way that benefits health. Antibiotics, for example, have been prescribed too much for years, leading to an unhealthy population and resistant bacteria. I think everyone agrees that we should restrict the use of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u51	Mr Klaps, you begin your speech on health care by saying immediately that the patient is not affected. That's where you're so wrong. Your government is taking a third out of the healthcare budget, namely EUR 900 million, almost a billion. You keep telling me, along with the Health Minister, that this will work without touching the patient. That's bullshit. Slowly you are, in slides, making the health gap bigger and bigger. At the beginning of this legislature, it began to reduce the third-payer scheme for the chronically ill. Now there is the indexing of the maximum invoice. The previous governments deliberately never indexed the maximum invoice, with the aim of gradually increasing the protection of the weakest patient. They're gonna cancel it now. You say the patient doesn't feel it, but the antibiotic measure does feel the patients. After all, there are patients who do need antibiotics. The patient is sensitized by making the antibiotics more expensive, but in fact the doctors need to be sensitized, because behind each antibiotic course there is a prescriber. However, the sensitisation of the doctor is not currently taking place. Moreover, the antibiotics will be twice as expensive for you and me, but for the weakest patient three times as expensive. That is where the moratorium on district health centres comes in, once again on the neck of the weakest. The latest development is derived from the newsletter of the professional federation of physicists that we received yesterday, because the professional federation of physicists has decided not to comply with the conventions anymore. Today it is announced that a large part of the doctors feel that they should no longer comply with the conventions. In fact, Mr Moens of the Doctoral Syndicate has made it quite clear that, if this is approved, that will probably happen on Thursday, there I am not under any illusions as to whether or not they want to cancel the convention as a whole. Who do you think's gonna pay for that? Who's gonna pay those doctor's wages? You think the state's gonna do that? No, the patient will do that and the weakest patient in the first place. What this government is doing is making the health gap, in slices, ever bigger. That's what this government is doing, Mr Klaps. That the patient doesn't feel anything is pure, pure nonsense. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u52	Mr President, I intended to make a general statement, but I can see that we have already reached the end of the detailed debate on health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u53	Right. So that was for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u54	We do seem to have gotten into that. Mrs Jiroflée, I would just like to say that you are making a complete comparison. The exercise is about EUR 900 million in which the antibiotics on the subject represent EUR 14 million. We discussed this in detail in committee. Sensibilisation has been going on for years. You have no alternative. Perhaps you reserved it for the plenary? We are very curious to hear from you how you are going to protect patients from the growing number of resistant germs that children with infections are just dying of today. I am very curious about your alternative, but I do not think you can deny that in this 900 million euro exercise, a third goes to making medicines cheaper, EUR 300 million compared to EUR 14 million. There are also other measures that we are taking to fully protect the patient. I would like to return to that in the debate on public health, which we hope will be able to have and not now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u55	Colleagues, I would like to, but then we are going to let go of the discussion completely and end them in the night. It's just what we decide. It's no big deal for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u56	Mr President, it seems that we are not alone in a detailed debate. We have also entered the populist debate. EUR 900 million had to be saved. That saving has been torn to pieces. This also means that antibiotics are subject to strain. That wasn't done for sensitising reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the NV-A and more generally, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, one of the great difficulties with regard to the way in which you have designed your budget is that you draw for a third – this is never seen – from the health care budget. This is not the first time, because in the last two years you have already achieved more than two billion savings in this sector alone. These are not figures from the opposition but from the minister. In fact, you have decided to use the health care budget to replenish the state budget and your own very important budget slip. If cost-saving measures in health care are needed, they must be carried out, if we see waste, we must hunt them, but the challenge is to be able, thanks to these savings and this wastage hunt, to reinvest these means in Health. Clearly, you do not anticipate the future: you do not take into account the aging of the population, the shift to the ambulatory level, the need to rebuild hospitals and home support. You are going to undermine all these mechanisms with ineffective reforms, which are going to cost you jobs, harm hospitals and which you are going to pay for, tomorrow, the direct effects of your political choice. You hurt patients, you're gonna lose jobs. We are witnessing a complete breach of trust and Minister De Block and the majority are now telling us that you are negotiating major multi-year frameworks with the sector. However, your multi-year framework that you did not meet is that of the government agreement, which called for a 1.5% health care standard to be locked. You are far from it, since this year it is 0.5% for the 2017 budget, while the Planning Office expected that, at constant policy, you would need a 2.2% growth standard. Therefore, making us believe today that you will now negotiate and respect the multi-annual frameworks, while you have not even respected your own framework, is a complete illusion. You will allow me the expression: it is taking and patients and health professionals for less than nothing. I'm sorry. You will pay for this policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u58	I appeal to you, Mr President, because we are either dealing here with a more general intervention which directly affects the budget, or we are now entering into the details of the various parts. I would like to recall that we have already had this discussion in committee. We have it here during the general discussion and we will have it – I know how things work – a third time, while in any case we know that we will not agree. I could, in fact, have fun giving figures which are quite contrary to those I have just heard from Mrs Fonck. In that case, I don't know where we're going. Mr President, could you at some point ask that we remain in a general framework? It is planned that, after that, a debate will be held in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u59	I propose that we allow Mr Klaps to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u61	Mr. Chair, we are fully within the overall framework when we talk about the standard of growth in the health care budget. On the other hand, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u62	Yes, but I propose that Mr. Klaps continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u63	I have just said, Mrs Fonck, in general terms, that in a sector where for years 4.5 % more resources have been allocated, on top of inflation, there is room for savings. That's what this government does. For the details of all the measures, I would like to refer you and all my fellow Members to the detailed debate later. Mr President, I will conclude my speech. Mrs Temmerman just started saying that I do not want to see there is a problem with income. Well, there's at least one problem with the estimates of that, Mr Temmerman, that's right. The estimates given to the government appear to be too high each year. That is not new, as was the case in the previous legislature. That is why I am pleased that we are now applying the principle of caution for the first time and introducing a safety buffer of EUR 739 million. It is even more important to examine the causes of these incorrect estimates and to clarify them quickly, so that we can quickly check whether the buffer is sufficiently large. In short, ladies and gentlemen, most of the signals are positive: the latest report by the National Bank was very positive, GDP continues to grow in the coming years, consumption is rising, disposable income is rising, a lot of new jobs are being created and, most importantly, fellow Members, the government debt is on track to finally fall below 50% in 2019. We are thus achieving a very important milestone. The IMF also confirms positive growth rates. It's even a little more optimistic than the National Bank. The IMF also explicitly supports our government's reform agenda, which focuses on competitiveness and jobs, and encourages us to reform further. The IMF is following our view that we must tackle the budgetary deficit through the expenditure side and ask us to reform corporate taxation. We can only encourage the latter. The reform of corporate taxation planned by Minister Van Overtveldt is now being supported by almost everyone in this House and beyond. Yesterday, moreover, there was the collective manifesto because of the employers. I therefore call on the other partners in the government to work on this as soon as possible. This reform, which must be budget-neutral, will result in a lower effective tax burden for our SMEs, which cannot benefit from multinational tax peaks. For multinationals it will provide the benefit of clarity. As Topman Ronnie Leten of Atlas Copco put it: I am not getting the Belgian tax system explained at our headquarters; rather a clear, legally certain framework in which we know what to pay than a high rate with a mass deductions where we run the risk of getting the lid on years later. This budget contains many sensible measures that will further positively support the economic indicators. That is not the end of the matter; we must dare, ladies and gentlemen, to reform further. Our group will approve this budget enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express to you our emotion at the tragedy that took place yesterday in Berlin. Barbaric violence has again struck, as it struck in Zurich, Ankara, Istanbul and as it struck in Aleppo. Our thoughts obviously go to the victims and their loved ones. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday 17 December, MR President Chastel spoke in the daily newspaper Le Soir and said about the budgetary balance in 2018: "I have no fetishism." Would there be a flash of lucidity in the majority? Maybe. Then you will understand that you are being asked a very simple question. Where are the commitments made at the beginning of the legislature, at the rate of an effort of 0.6%, to reach balance in 2018? Where are the Matamores statements of some, especially the N-VA, who made good management, het goed bestuur, their battle horse? The truth is very different. All the basic indicators that would provide evidence of good management show negative developments. There is an increase in public debt: 107 % in 2016, i.e. + 1 % compared to 2015 and + 1.6 % compared to 2013. Economic growth, as has already been said, is lower than that of the euro area. I can give you the numbers. I am not going to flood you but, finally, all the same: 2% growth in 2015 in the euro area against 1.4% in Belgium and, in 2016, 1.7% in the euro area against 1.4% in Belgium and, in 2017, IMF estimates, 1.5% in the euro area against 1.2% to 1.4% for Belgium. So you're below the euro area average. It's also already part of your record.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u65	Mr. Laaouej, Mr. Van de Velde wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u66	Mr Laaouej, I do not know whether you have been paying attention to the whole discussion that has taken place over the last hour. I don't know if you realize it, but Mrs Temmerman has actually carried socialism to the grave. Mr Laaouej, with her excellent speech on the median income of 2015, she has proven, without her noticing herself, that your enormous tax drive of 2013 had become untenable. The median income is calculated on the declarations. It is great that you are making such arguments here. She has shown that your policies and the way you have increased the tax burden have become unsustainable. Everything you will explain today and everything the socialist family will explain today must be seen in the light of that median income. It was a great argument. I would like to remind you of that. I hope you will have an explanation for this at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u67	Mr President, I do not know whether I should respond to everything Mr. Van de Velde said, because objectively, it's an addition of inconsistencies. But that being the case, since he invites me to reply: have you considered the increase in indirect taxation, Mr Van de Velde? Are you able to tell me, throughout the legislature, the total of your consumer tax increases? Can you quote me a number? Tell me a little bit. No? M. Van de Velde m'interpelle. It's too easy to say: "Ah! You're increasing... "Three billion, Mr. Van de Velde, over the legislature. After the index jump, Mr. Van de Velde, do you know how much you're going to get to the end of the legislature? By conceiving that there is a 2.5 billion puncture per year: to more than 10 billion euros. So, please, Mr. Van de Velde, there's no lesson about mandatory levies. But if you will, I will continue, because you will see, you will have the opportunity to react again. If I understand correctly, every time we talk about tax justice, every time we talk about good management, every time we talk about economic growth and recovery, so every time you get caught up in your policy, you have to come up with arguments that don't stand the way. I'm sorry, but I'm going to go back to the thread of my presentation. It's a good try, this diversion! Third point: after the increase in public debt, after economic growth below the euro area, the failure to comply with the path of resorption of the structural deficit. On these three elements, your failure is obvious. Let's be clear! We do not have the fetishism of fiscal trajectories, especially when real economic recovery policies stimulate the economy, investment and domestic demand. The problem, your problem, but which becomes the problem of the entire population, is that you have imposed a policy of austerity that does not produce any positive economic and fiscal results. You continue, moreover, Minister, Minister, to pretend to us that balance in 2018 is still a realistic goal. And the reality is quite different. The European Commission estimates the structural deficit at 2.2% of GDP in 2018, in the order of €9.8 billion. The figures quoted by Le Soir are quite correct, based on Eurostat projections. Do you realize the situation in which you have placed the country? Where have all your billions of efforts gone, all those billions of euros of sacrifices imposed on the population? We know the reasons for your unsightlyness. To sum up: an unfunded tax shift. It has been said, I repeat: according to the BNB, 6.6 billion were not financed by 2019. A drop in interest charges that could have been used to clean up public finances but that you used to finance other policies. Imagine for a moment what the situation would be if interest rates were higher! However, you have struck very hard, from the beginning of the legislature, leaving no respite to our fellow citizens by targeting all categories of the population (workers, pensioners, beneficiaries) and also striking all sectors. You're taking three billion from the SNCB. You weaken the financing of social security with your linear reductions in contributions. You cut into health care. I'll come back. All this, for economic results that are not there!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u68	The question of where these billions are going is, of course, a very interesting question and you will find the answer, Mr Laaouej, in the economic projections for Belgium, autumn 2016, which the National Bank recently announced. I am in the table entitled 'Heffingen', which mainly applies to income from employment, specifically labour income, because capital taxes remain stable for this legislature. When I look at those taxes on labour, they fall by 0.9 % of GDP in 2016, by 1 % in 2017, by 1.5 % in 2018 and 1.8 % in 2019. I'll translate that into pennies. This is €3.7 billion reduction in labour taxes for 2016, €4.1 billion in 2017, €6.15 billion in 2018 and €7.38 billion in 2019. In addition to this legislature, this is a reduction of EUR 21.33 billion in taxes on labour, which reaches the hard-working citizen. Thank you for that little question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u69	Monsieur De Roover, your vous remerce. Could you, however, repeat the addition of the reduction in the levies on labour that you refer to, if that does not bother you, but in percentages of GDP? How much is this addition, Mr. De Roover, when you add up these percentages of GDP related to the drop in labour levies? How much do you get? You mentioned them, just add them up!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u70	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, I have made the comparison with 2015 for each year. This means a comparison if the policy is unchanged. Since, as you have already pointed out, we do change the policy compared to earlier and therefore to your policy, the comparison with the unchanged policy is the reduction every year. This means that, if we did not take the measures fiscally, I repeat that these are measures for labour and not for capital, because those charges remain stable, and we, the government, would have to raise more than EUR 21 billion from the people. Of course, this is an effort we must make towards the citizens. Since we give back these funds and ensure that they do not have to give them to the government and the State Treasury, that is an effort that we have to make in budgetary terms. I must confess to you that I am very proud that we are returning the EUR 21 billion to the population. I support the figures of the National Bank of Belgium. You may, however, put other figures against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u71	Mr De Roover, you are not answering my question, but it is no big deal. You speak of 21 billion efforts; of which act. Moreover, we know where you are going to get them: by means of cuts in social security, in public services. I'll tell you about the index jump. It's a cut in the salary bill of $12.5 billion over the five years of your legislature, or 2.3% of GDP. You add 0.8% increase in indirect taxes, i.e. in total, almost 3.5% of GDP in addition to wages and consumption taxes. That's it, Mr De Roover, where the taxpayers' money has gone, who are also workers! They're not abstractions. A taxpayer is a household, someone who works, someone you're going to take money from with your measures, directly or indirectly. Because when you ask people to pay for more expensive drugs, when you deprive them of social rights, you also blame their wallet. I ask you, therefore, to have a global view of what you are doing in terms of effort, especially when you are going to look in the pocket of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u72	Mr Laaouej, we have made the choice to redistribute the funds to the citizens themselves. You might have made another choice. We could also have made a different choice and imposed a lot more taxes and decided on behalf of the government where that money is going. However, we say that the citizen can make a decision on his own. Of course, he can take certain options in his choice palette of expenditures. You are right when you say that we have partly made a shift towards indirect taxation. That too is a choice. Quite a few economists are in favour of this, even from a wealth point of view. In terms of indirect taxation, as you know, we are at a much lower level than many competing countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u73	Mr De Roover, I have listened with courtesy to your catechism of the economy of offer, but you will understand that we do not have to adhere to it, especially when the results are not at the meeting. I will return to that point. So I was saying that you hit our fellow citizens directly, but also indirectly, when you're going to get $3 billion from SNCB, when you cut down on social security funding or when you're attacking their social rights. I was interrupted, but finally, this is an opportunity for me to stress once again that you have also imposed an index jump, that you have increased VAT on electricity, excise duties in proportions never seen, all in order to achieve particularly disastrous economic and budgetary results. Is it necessary to recall here how much an index leap to workers and beneficiaries while subjecting them to a dizzying increase in taxes on consumption is a source of social injustice? Should we also remind you, Mr De Roover, that indirect taxes are anti-redistributive, that they weigh more heavily on low incomes? Should we re-emphasize that the so-called tax reduction induced by the tax shift – you never mention it – only comes into force gradually, while the index jump and the consumer tax increases were imposed immediately? I would remind you once again that pensioners and beneficiaries who suffer from both index jumps and increases in consumption taxes do not benefit in any way from your tax shift. This is again a reality that you are concealing. So, to social injustice, you'll add an economic failure and leave a budget deficit. More specifically, Belgium is lagging behind the euro area today. It had below average economic growth, while under the previous legislature the reverse had occurred. This is something you regularly forget to mention during your interventions! On the budgetary front, I spoke about the structural deficit, up to the year 2018, up to 2.2%. Recall that, for 2016, the nominal deficit reached 3% You hang on to two buoys: job creation and macroeconomic growth in disposable income. As far as job creation is concerned, you keep to the forecasts, I say "the forecasts", of the National Bank, which reports the creation of 120,000 jobs. Yet, an economist – isn't he, Mr Gilkinet? – has recently shown that so many jobs have been created in current business. But you also hide the fact that, of all these jobs that you falsely attribute to your economic policy, almost all of them are precarious, partial or fixed-term jobs. It is the National Bank itself that highlights the low quality of these jobs. I quote the National Bank: "This phenomenon is part of an increasingly flexible labour market, where part-time and short-term contracts are more widespread". You also forget to say that the National Bank strongly attributes job creation to the return of a better situation that is prerequisite to the Michel government! I quote again the National Bank: "Since the economic recovery began in the course of 2013, the growth of activity in Belgium has proportionally shown an ever greater intensity of employment". 2013, Mr. De Roover! What you do not say, the third weakness in your demonstration, is that if the National Bank of Belgium is planning an additional 120,000 jobs over the next three years, the projections before the arrival of the current government were already counting on 96,000 jobs – and it is the Federal Office of the Plan that says so – i.e. 80% of the current forecasts. Your wage reduction policy is, from this point of view, very unproductive in addition to being unfair. Looking only at wage-earning jobs, alongside self-employed jobs and public sector jobs, the Michel government is doing even worse than the projections before it arrived. I can provide you with figures from the Plan Office in comparison to those of the National Bank. And yet, wage moderation/reduction is colossal: in the order of 11 billion euros by 2019. In this regard, I refer you to the figures from the Plan Office that show the downward trend in the payroll. I repeat, less 11 billion over the period mentioned above. Moreover, knowing your intention, with the possible reform of the 1996 law, to further reduce the wage bill by a moderation which, we are told, could go up to 10%, there is cause for concern. Perhaps it would be high time to learn from the facts that need to be learned. So perhaps a little more jobs, subject to confirmation of the forecasts, but not as much as you say, far from there, and above all more precarious jobs, with dangerous wage moderation! I can therefore only invite you to show moderation and humility with regard to the argument of employment. Why Humility? Because, given current projections and those as they were in 2014, the net forecast increase is 25,000 units. But remember what I just said! You puncture on the wage bill with the index jump, that is, over the same period 2016 – 2019 (four-year period), ten billion punctures, to which you must add, again over the same period, eight billion euros of reduction of social contributions, which gives a package of 18 billion to relate to the additional 25,000 net units that you claim to create according to the National Bank's forecasts. You will agree with me that the ratio is not particularly advantageous. You are also clinging to the macroeconomic and overall evolution of disposable income. I will not dwell on it, because we have discussed it at length in the Finance Committee. Simply and in order to fix the ideas correctly, I will remind you of the few elements I had brought to your attention. First, a macroeconomic increase in disposable income does not say anything about its composition. Is it the income of labour that increases or the income of capital? From the moment that, in the period 2016 – 2019, you punctuate 11 billion euros (i.e. 10 billions due to index jumps and 1 billion to other elements of moderation), this is a measure that suggests that it is certainly not wages that are doped! Second, it does not tell us anything about the distribution of disposable income, which benefits from increases in disposable income. Is it the top or bottom of the basket? Thirdly: citizens may see a facial increase in their disposable income, but if, in a second stage, they are faced with your increases in consumption taxes, that will not make much progress, but on the contrary! Fourth: If you ask them tomorrow to pay for their more expensive medicines, their so-called facial increase in disposable income will not be of great interest to them either. For these four reasons, the argument for macroeconomic increases in disposable income must be taken with great care. But better still, if we compare the projections of disposable income increases under your government with those under the previous government, we see that, by 2019, the National Bank forecasts a 7.4% increase in disposable income, while under the Di Rupo government, we achieved an 8.5% increase in disposable income. This means that we were doing better than you do with your policy of austerity and domestic demand compression. It is also interesting to show...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u74	Mr Laaouej, I hear you say that you have doubts that the increase in real disposable income for the following years, according to the National Bank's projections, is in the share of betting and wages in that real disposable income. I can remove your doubts, because according to the recent report "Economic Projections for Belgium" of the National Bank, there is indeed an increase in the share of betting and wages, not only for 2016 and 2017, but also for 2018 and 2019. I know you like to question things that are said by the majority, but I believe that you cannot question the latest report of December 2016 on, among other things, job creation, the types of jobs created and the increase in disposable income. I also refer to the graph No. 4 on page 15 on the effective increase in the share of betting and wages in real disposable income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u75	Mrs Smaers, have I told you at any time that there was no increase in the share of wages in the composition of the increase in disposable income? I never claimed that. I invite you to look at the share of capital income in the increase in disposable income. That is what I ask you to do and that you never do. Second element. Of course, I did not dispute the fact that, facially, disposable income is increasing. I bring you a new element by telling you that the National Bank's forecasts under the previous government led to an 8.5% increase by 2019 compared to 7.4% for the current government. That means you're doing less well than we were doing when we were in business. I'm not saying anything else. Another point. I can't hear you when I tell you that people may have an increase in disposable income but, in a second stage, they are faced with indirect taxes or that they will be faced with fewer social rights, fewer reimbursements of medicines, less health care refunds. This macroeconomic argument is an argument which may at some point be delusional but which, when one digs a bit, does not resist analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u76	I would like to ask Mr Laaouej, because he speaks a lot about the previous government, which was Minister of Finance and Budget at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u77	I suggest that you address the question to your colleagues on the CD&V. Mrs. Smaers will help us see more clearly. There's always a surreal moment with Mr. Piedboeuf! I suggest that members of the CD&V group respond in my place. I think they're in a better position. Your speech, Mr. Piedboeuf, is interesting because there is a lot of schizophrenia. Often, Mr. Van de Velde says "under the previous government" and I never hear you react. Objectively, I invite you to react more. So I was saying that what applies to disposable income also applies to private consumption. Here too, it's very interesting. National Bank forecast for 2019: + 6.6 %. It's a cumulative. We cumulate every year. That was 8% under this legislature. Again, here too, we see that your policy tends to reduce private demand. That is why, Mr De Roover, this question remains: where have all these billions been caught in the pockets of our fellow citizens? In any case, they do not allow you to correct the public accounts or to revive the economy! The facts impose a new lesson on you. I am speaking to the government as a whole, but specifically to the Minister of Finance. Social asphyxiation has never helped to restore oxygen to our economy. A failure on two tables, therefore, to which is added the deterioration of the social climate, which you have caused. Indeed, the economy is also psychology, Mr. Piedboeuf. When you start a legislature with a catalogue of horrors, such as index jumps, the increase in VAT on electricity etc., that you collect 100,000 people on the streets, you insure people. You don't want them to participate actively in the economy. What's going on then? You're cutting domestic demand. The climate of trust for consumers and households is as important as the climate of trust for businesses. An economy works on two legs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u78	Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr Laaouej that when there are demonstrations on the street, he and his family are in the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u79	Mr Piedboeuf, speeches like this, I ask for them again! Let's go back to Budget 2016 and Budget 2017. For 2016, let's say things like they are: your foresight and mismanagement put Belgium at 3% nominal deficit. You're in the antechamber of the excessive deficit procedure. Caught to the throat, because that's what this is about, you decided to limit efforts to 0.1% of GDP in 2016, and to postpone almost all efforts in 2017 and 2018. It will be tough in 2017, but we fear the worst for 2018. For 2016, you mention the attacks, Brexit and the asylum crisis. The Commission does not follow your reasoning to explain your 2016 budget crash. Even if these facts are taken into account, they do not explain how you now have a nominal deficit of almost 3%. You will also allow me to point out that countries other than ours, alas, face the same difficulties but are still showing better results. These may therefore be influential parameters, but certainly not determinative. No! The real reasons are elsewhere, and reside first in your economic policies; I have just mentioned it. They do not create the conditions for recovery, and the dynamics of the tax and parafiscal bases are therefore in decline. The point of looking at the evolution of economic growth was, of course, that economic growth corresponds to a dynamic of the tax and parafiscal bases, which means more revenue, without necessarily increasing compulsory levies. You also created a climate of distrust as early as 2014-15. This, of course, does not support private domestic demand. We're still paying the price today! The question is not just whether domestic demand has increased, but how much it would have increased without the brutality of the measures you imposed on the population. You have multiplied the error of estimation in tax revenues, whether it is the current revenue or the return of the new measures. Note: for 2016, the gap is almost 2 billion euros on the tax revenue side. There were first 794 million, then 760, and then added 540 million. With adjustments and fiscal slips, more than €2 billion in tax revenue gap! It's just incredible and untenable. You announced a task force to solve the estimation problem. But after two and a half years of parliament! It may be time to think about it. What a waste of time! This must also be deplored. Another element – do not neglect it and be interested in the field: when you have reduced the tax system of secret commissions to little, the amounts that occultly leave the company's assets, you have sent a bad signal. Today, money can be taken out of a company in an occult way; the only thing that is at risk is to pay the tax that we should have paid anyway. If it's not a call or an encouragement to cheat, I don't know what it is! But here too you will lose a lot of money. This will not be in millions or tens of millions, but certainly in hundreds of millions. You've done a lot of tricky savings. It becomes the bottle in ink. I apologise, but the redesign of the administration, for example! My group leader, Laurette Onkelinx, said that in the end, each anglicism was concealing an entouroupe. Jobs, jobs, jobs! Tax, tax, tax! Redesign [[!]] Starter jobs! We don't trust your anglicisms. Maybe you should start to be wary of it, too. The redesignation of the administration! You first put a lot of money into the budget. Today, we realize that you yourself have come back because the Court of Auditors and the opposition have told you. And most of all because we've seen a vaudeville that doesn't honor the image of your government where everyone was turning the ball over to know who had to save money, who had to take the file with the body. In short, it's all falling apart! That's why your budgets look like day-to-day, week-to-week, month-to-month, to a castle of cards that continues to collapse as planned. Also take note of what you presented to us in 2016. The tax regularization that you expected 250 million euros for a project adopted in July 2016 and that will still undergo changes in December 2016, with institutional and legal problems pointed out by the Council of State. It will be a miracle if you reach 100 million euros! As for increases in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, we asked you from the beginning to check the level of these levies in neighbouring countries, in northern France and in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Nothing did. Today, you are confronted with a cross-border shopping that makes you lose hundreds of millions of euros. This cross-border shopping represents a 35% increase in purchases in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. We fired the alarm bell, you didn't want to listen to us and you're going to lose hundreds of millions, minister! It's already too late! The Cayman tax represents another bottle in ink. No one, and especially not the Court of Auditors, believes in the amount of EUR 460 million. I will come back to 2017 because the European Commission is also beginning to look into it. I would also like to stress, for 2016, a collapse of the expected revenue from the increase in the furniture discount from 25 to 27%. On page 45 of the Court's report, the Court of Auditors points out that where you were expecting a supplementary revenue of 178 million over nine months, you are already suffering a loss of 287.5 million. Should I also mention the question of the sicafi for which you expected 250 million when the European Commission advises you to retain only 125? In addition to the bad figures you have given us, the slate will inevitably increase by at least EUR 1 billion, due to the far-fetched estimate of your revenue. What does that mean? That means you're already in the excessive deficit. This means that for 2016 you will already exceed 3%. It seems to me that there is an opportunity for you, perhaps in 2017, as quickly as possible, to try to correct the shot, to prevent the errors of 2016 from unfolding on 2017. For 2016, I fear very much, it may already be too late. We could have expected that, precisely for 2017, you would correct the shot but nothing did. I do not come back to the vaudeville of the end of the year, when, in September 2016, we finally learn that it is not 2.4 billion efforts that will have to be made but 4.2 billion. You will agree that just a few weeks before your budget sheet is sent to the European Commission, it doesn't look really good. Still, why not take into account the remarks of the Court of Auditors when it says: "Warning! Errors were pointed to in the 2016 budget. Do not repeat them in 2017!"? You're not listening to him. You continue and report the same errors on the revenue estimate. And again, we always find the same posts: the Cayman tax. For the Cayman tax, Europe says: "Put 100 million! Don't put 460 million!" You keep the $460 million. We will therefore be faced with a difficulty, since the Court of Auditors tells us that it will find it difficult to estimate the return because the money is paid to the common pot of the household discount. I've been digging the case a little bit. The fact is that the Cayman tax is dependent on returns to the PPI as well. Therefore, it may be possible, through the PPI statement, to track the performance of this measure. But I certainly hope that you will make the transparency tax transparent. I hope you will be able to help us see more clearly about the evolution of performance, otherwise, once again, we will be obliged, with you, to navigate on sight during our budgetary debates. This is neither wise nor acceptable! You're putting it at 30% now and you're pointing to a recipe of 345 million euros! The Court of Auditors tells you that this is not reasonable because what was observed in 2016, i.e. the reductions in interest rates, the change in the behaviour of savers, will still be observed in 2017. You're not listening! You maintain this recipe of 345 million euros. I can quote the Court of Auditors, which says it explicitly, since it "attracts attention to a possible overestimation of the revenue of the household allowance". You take no account of these remarks and you persist in the same blindness in terms of excise policy. In 2016, you were told you were wrong. As a result, it was suggested that the programme law would include a reassessment of that policy. What a nenni! It's not an anglicism, Mr Miller... you keep your levels of excise duty and continue to encourage people to go shopping in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or in France. It's the holiday season, it's true! Every day that passes, you lose tens of millions of euros. I don't know what you need to wake up. Then you take a huge risk of at least 500 million euros, in my opinion. I'm talking about the famous tax revenue buffer. What is the reasoning? When the FPS Finances turns to the past - and things are repeated in 2016 - it finds a systematic gap of two billion euros in the tax revenues. Good prince, he recommends you not to take such a margin, because the situation could suddenly improve, but rather to take one of 1.1 billion. You don't listen to him and do your own calculations before you put a buffer - that is, a safety margin - of 739 million. Making its own calculations, the Court of Auditors informs you that even this buffer is not correct. In fact, you have a real margin of only 482 million. In short, between the 1.1 billion suggested by the FPS Finances and the 482 million retained by the Court of Auditors, you will miss 500 million. It's not too late to correct the shot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u80	On this point, when the Court of Auditors was questioned by me on the subject in committee, it did not reply because it realized that it had been wrong in that calculation. Indeed, it had deducted from the sum of 780 million... But yes! You were there, you're a witness. Don't be in bad faith, Mr. Laaouej. You're not usually. The Court of Auditors acknowledged that it had erred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u81	Oh, good! So if the Court of Auditors is wrong! In my opinion, it is rather Mr Piedboeuf who understands that the Court of Auditors said that she was wrong. I didn't hear that. All the more so since I asked them the question. I asked them to explain the difference in numbers. She maintained her explanation, which you will find in her report. I can obviously send you back. It explains things quite precisely, Mr. Piedboeuf. But your observations will be forwarded to the Court of Auditors. There is the Court of Auditors' notebook of observations and now there is Mr Piedboeuf's notebook of observations on the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u82	The flexibility clause was well integrated into the budget. The minister told you, too. The Court of Auditors wrongly deducted it from that buffer. I'm sorry to tell you. She acknowledged her wrongs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u83	Mr Piedboeuf, we take note of what you are saying. We note that you consider that the Court of Auditors is wrong. Mr Piedboeuf, obviously, has better control of the budget than the Court of Auditors. I don't make it an argument of authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u84	This can happen! You're wrong all year round.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u85	Better and better! A little courtesy, Mr. Piedboeuf! Be tough, but be courteous! I'm almost done. Another point is the fight against tax fraud. Mrs. Temmerman talked about it. In a few lines, on page 43, the Court of Auditors explains – but it is wrong, isn't it, Mr Piedboeuf? – that this new performance in the fight against tax fraud is based on little. We're waiting to see. She's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u86	You still have three minutes, Mr. Laaouej!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u87	Three minutes? But I was interrupted, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u88	It's out of line!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u89	When we add together the interventions of the Van de Velde Institute with those of Mr Klaps, we arrive at at least three hours of interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u90	I do the calculation of speaking time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u91	Mr Laaouej, you have three minutes left. During those three minutes, can you suggest your alternative? I know your criticism. Mrs Onkelinx, you know that I agree with some of the criticism. However, from the alternative and from the view of the Socialists on the whole problem, which they would explain in three minutes, I have not yet heard jota. However, I have also come here to listen in what way we could do better. Mr. Laaouej, you have three minutes to say how you're going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u92	Not only do we want to reduce my speaking time, but we're also told what I need to say in the gallery. We mustn't exaggerate! However, for alternative policies, I refer to Mr. Van Rompuy. There are many interesting solutions. But I must say here that you have also been deprived of your speaking time, Mr Van Rompuy, and I regret that. I liked to read your blogs and listen to your speeches in committee. We miss it! Anyway, I have three minutes to tell you that there is a collection of recipes that, of course, are not on the way. As far as savings are concerned, with the redesign, we are going back to something a little reasonable. But I would remind you that in this context, you are setting up €750 million to finance your tax shift. That is why Mrs Temmerman's criticism was particularly justified. Indeed, 750 million euros for your financing of the tax shift disappear as also disappears, in particular, the expected revenues from the excise duties, the revenues related to the tax shift, etc. So you have a big problem with tax shift financing. You also overestimate savings in interest charges. That's not negligible. You forget to provide social integration with the means to carry out the reforms you are voting for. The Court of Auditors says so, but it is certainly wrong! The Régie des Bâtiments will not have the means of its policy. I will not mention health care here. I leave it to my colleagues to come back and ask them to apologize, but there is a lot to say. This is how I get to the program law and the diamond tax. You create a new privilege with an unheard-of fornicator. While you were creating a privilege for this sector, you did not wonder if it was normal for this sector to pay only €20 million when it has a turnover of €50 billion. You find it normal that 20 million tax revenues represent 60 million taxable profits. You do not think that this is a fraud sensitive sector. Do I have to mention Omega Diamonds, which has defrauded €2.2 billion? Should I quote the Monfreid case and the 800 million frauds? You don't have any questions. You create a privilege while you are about to vote for tax discrimination against asylum seekers who have children. Really, you've lost all sense of modesty! The tax on speculation has disappeared and we mustn't imagine that we're going to see it come back. You want alternatives, Mr. Van Rompuy, like the CD&V's proposal to tax capital gains for fairer taxation? Obviously, you're going to have a hard time getting her through! I understand better why you're asking for alternatives! You need us, Mr. Van Rompuy! That is the reason for your intervention! By way of conclusion, your anti-social policy, your bad economic choices, your chaotic fiscal policy, your impudence to create privileges for the most affluent while you hit very hard on the most fragile, translate into an impressive collection of failures. Because of you, public accounts are in a situation that puts us at the mercy of Europe and its creed, austerity! Because of you, households are now asphyxiated and will be even more so tomorrow. Because of you, you are jeopardizing the future of future generations. You definance social security, you dismantle people's social rights, you increase public debt and you dismember public services. In essence, the liberal agenda of the "lesser state" meets the agenda of the "less Belgium" N-VA. Weakening the federal state to weaken Belgium is the result of your budgetary complicity. I tell you: you will always find us in front of you to defend the interests of the workers and the future of the country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u93	Mr President, I am probably not going to say the same thing as Mr Laaouej! Budget discussions are the most important of the year, as you know. This is the financial expression of the action programme that has been under way since the beginning of the legislature. Today we begin the final discussions of the 2017 budget after several days of constructive debates in each of the committees. I would like to welcome, on behalf of my group, the quality of the work of all the political groups, carried out in the ongoing dialogue and the deepening of the topics covered. Minister Sophie Wilmès made a decisive contribution to this budget. I would also like to commend his rigorous and precise work in his office. The 2017 budget is part of our government's commitment to support job creation, increased purchasing power and the competitiveness of our country, in order to ensure long-term financing of our social security. As in each fiscal year, the government has studied the situation very carefully. But beyond our country, the budget is part of a broader international economic and political context, sometimes difficult, sometimes tragic - as we saw yesterday - and relatively uncertain. At the end of 2016, naturally, our eyes are turned towards 2017, but we need to look back for a few moments at the trials our country has had to face. The Government has assumed full security responsibility for the rise of Islamic terrorism. The attacks have caused significant damage to our economy, but our country has demonstrated its exemplary resilience. At the budget level, the government has had to bear the budgetary consequences of this collective tragedy, both in terms of revenue and expenditure. The exit of Britain from the European Union, made possible by the British referendum, created a climate of uncertainty about international trade in general, and in particular European trade, which is not in favour of economic growth, whether you want it or not. Donald Trump's election to the presidency of the United States raises a high degree of uncertainty in global economic relations, particularly in terms of international agreements, climate management and the retention of Delaware in the tax havens that favour tax evasion. Finally, and these are just a few elements, the current rise in oil prices is an additional source of uncertainty. This reminds us of the urgency of climate change and the need to help address it. Despite these contextual difficulties, the government has resolutely maintained its course and is pursuing its objectives of a gradual return to fiscal balance, a consolidation of our public finances and, above all, a continuation of structural reforms at the socio-economic level, consisting of the establishment and strengthening of a favourable environment for job creation and the development of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u94	Mr Piedboeuf, I will ask you the same question I asked Mr Klaps, to see if the answers are the same. A budgetary effort of $9 billion has been made, consisting essentially of austerity introduced over the past two years. However, we do not see any progress in the evolution of the nominal or structural balance, apart from a minimal increase of EUR 100 million. How do 9 billion austerity translate into an improvement in the balance of the order of 100 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u95	Thank you for your question. I'm going on. Through this budget, the government consolidates its major structural socio-economic reforms, as provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u96	Mr Piedboeuf, I noted that you could not answer that question, so I'm going to ask you another question. This government always says it takes care of the lowest incomes, especially through the tax shift. The Minister of Finance gave me a table about the distribution of the tax shift by revenue deciles. The first decile represents the poorest 10%, and this goes up to the tenth decile, representing the richest 10%. How do you explain that the first five deciles, so the least wealthy 50% of the population have benefited from only 20% of the tax shift, knowing that this is only about personal tax? It is also known that indirect taxes affect lower incomes more strongly. Here we only see the positive side of the thing, not the negative side of the tax shift. How do you explain this inequality? I assume you will provide the same answer as you gave to my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u97	Not because I salute your thirst for knowledge, but, you see, like every good student, you will listen to what I have to say to you and if you still have a question, I will answer it later. With regard to the rise in the next stage of the tax shift aimed at increasing the competitiveness and purchasing power of low and medium wage earners, its total execution is confirmed in 2017, both in terms of support for the purchasing power of workers and the reduction in the costs decided to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises and, in particular, of small and medium-sized enterprises. The government consolidates its efforts for 2017 and thus confirms that by 2019, the tax shift will bring an increase in net purchasing power for all low incomes. It is a policy that creates and will create the difference in the daily lives of many families. On the reform of our pension system, the government has anchored the 2017 budget in a long-term multi-year vision. Pension financing is one of the major challenges for decades to come. My colleague, Stephanie Thoron, unless she gives birth by then, will come back in more detail on the reforms undertaken and to be undertaken. Nevertheless, it should be recalled that the reforms undertaken aim to ensure the budgetary sustainability of the first pension pillar by gradually raising the average age of exit from the labour market. Reforms were essential and responded beyond common sense even to the various recommendations of the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission. The government has done so, although many current measures will benefit the next government budget. The important thing is to ensure long-term intergenerational equity. Reforms are not just about the goal of the sustainability of our social model. They also aim to make our system more socially efficient. The Plan Bureau thus estimates, in its interim scenario, that pension reform will allow for an average pension increase of 2.2 per cent to 7.3 per cent by the end of 2060, depending on the plans. In the first two years of the legislature, the minimum monthly pension for a full career at the single rate was raised by €53.57 for an employed person and €115.97 for a self-employed person. In this changing framework of working time, the government will take into account, as announced, penitentiality. Thanks to Daniel Bacquelaine, who fully respects social consultation, the National Pensions Committee foresees that workers receiving recognition of penitibility will be subject to more favourable arrangements to leave early retirement or to benefit from a higher pension. A budget has been released for this purpose under the programme law. These reforms are necessary to re-establish growth, while promoting job creation, increased purchasing power, increased competitiveness and the long-term sustainability of our social security system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u98	Mr President, I am listening to Mr Piedboeuf with great attention since the beginning of his speech, hoping to find, in his presentation, something other than leniency and congratulations to his party members who are in the government. He had the merit of being the first to quote Ms. Wilmès. I'll come back later. He now quotes Mr Bacquelaine on pension reforms and trying to make it look better than before. But the constant in this government, and especially in the action of Ministers MR, is that after that will be much worse than before. I must remind you that this government, after the previous one, has decided to eliminate very widely the possibilities of early retirement and the assimilation of periods not worked, in particular by workers who care for their children or their parents. This is the reality of our society. We can challenge it and we contest it. And then, indeed, there is all this debate about penitibility, which is a little bit the bandage that the government has put up after the fact. I would like to ask you whether you have calculated, with the envelope that is being put on the table today by the government and by Minister Bacquelaine, how many workers could actually benefit, and for how long, from an early pension scheme because their career has been difficult and difficult? What is the percentage? I read your party president this weekend, who wrote that the teaching duties, given the psychological burden, having to be on duty in front of groups of students or sometimes demanding children, could be considered painful. Over the age of 55-60, it may be difficult, as a kindergarten teacher, to lean, raise children, be active all the time. In some areas of education, it is more difficult. Do you really think that the minimalist envelopes released will allow anything to mean about these functions? Do you really think that compared to the pre-existing system and that you have damaged and deconstructed, we will be able to do something that will really lead to a better future? I'm not nostalgic. I think there are things to change in society, but to do better, not to make things worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u99	Mr Gilkinet, it goes without saying that once the levels of penitibility have been fixed, we will be able to calculate, by profession, what this corresponds to. In fact, you will not fail to ask Minister Bacquelaine the question. But in the face of a problem, solutions must be found. We made our choices. They're not yours. In order to compensate in part for the increase in working time, we have actually decided to take account of a factor of penitibility. It is like the question asked earlier by Mr. Van Rompuy to Mr Laaouej: we must make choices. We made our own. What are your solutions? Keep things in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u100	I could develop the solutions here, but I will do so for a quarter of an hour later. Otherwise the president won't be happy. Be aware, Mr. Piedboeuf, that you are creating a huge problem to which you then bring only tiny solutions. At the time of the first pension reform, under another government – Mr. Van Quickenborne was the Minister of Pensions at the time – we denounced measures that were going to affect women very strongly – this is the case – the career workers who were interrupted – whether they were voluntarily or not – as well as part-time workers and lead to ever greater poverty. In its opinion, the Court of Auditors rightly points out that the savings of one day will result in much greater expenditure the next day. It's short-termism, Mr. Piedboeuf. The initiative to be taken by a Minister of Pensions is not to promote pension funds, as Mr. Bacquelaine consistently does, but to fight for sufficient alternative financing that will allow all workers, after their careers, to have an income that is decent enough to continue to live and not to survive. Your government is not interested in this, and we denounce it. That is why we are submitting alternative proposals and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u101	Except you don't bring a financial solution!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u102	Mr President, pensions are a major part of the budget. Mr. Piedboeuf, you immediately decided to raise the retirement age from 66 to 67 – to the dates we know. You have also noted the end-of-career adaptations, and even you have completely deleted them for one part. I am thinking, for example, of the health care sector, where you have completely changed the quality end-of-care adjustments for caregivers. The result of the races, in practice, you mainly have a vase communicating towards disabilities. We need to increase the employment rate for the 55-65 year-olds, that's a certainty. We can agree on that. But one of the reasons why you are not reaping any benefits today, to the extent that the situation is deteriorating – especially in view of the shift to disability, which is unprecedentedly greater than the number of unemployed people – is that you have postponed all the measures that had to be taken at the same time if people were to be accepted and people kept at work longer. I'll take two examples. First, in 2014, you decided to raise the retirement age to 67 years, but postponed the entire penitential component to 2019. However, it is of paramount importance and should have been implemented at the same time. Secondly, I will mention all the qualitative and quantitative adjustments to career ends that are still lacking today while we have always supported them and that allow more people to want to stay at work longer. By breaking all these measures, you are destroying the employment rate for the 55-65 age group while it is expected to increase. You are abandoning this project, but it must be implemented, contrary to your strategy of maintaining employment, which proves to be ineffective and harmful for the future of pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u103	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Gilkinet's speech because he always tends to refer only partially to reality. The European Commission and the IMF are calling for a longer career. In view of the ageing of the population, we are obliged to impose this measure recognized by these bodies. In fact, this has brought our MTO objective back to zero. This is a reality. Every time, Mr. Gilkinet, you omit that fact. As you know, pension reform was necessary to revive growth, to sustain our social security system and to avoid a burden for future generations. And I know what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u104	There are two ways to solve the pension problem. The government has chosen to reduce current and future pensioners' rights and to rely on private pension funds that also have a cost, which allow some shareholders to take advantage of too little tax and which present certain dangers. This is the path of the facility chosen by the government. However, there is another way. In the face of the real challenge of ageing, we must collectively create budgetary margins and implement the reforms that enable everyone to live in dignity. That is my purpose as an agent, as a representative. The measures taken by the government today and tomorrow will lead more pensioners, especially pensioners, to a situation of risk of poverty. I find this unbearable. I do not accept that, as Mr Calomne and Mr Piedboeuf have done, pension measures should be glorified. From a social and societal point of view, they are unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u105	We assume our responsibilities. We're doing what we have to do, Mr Gilkinet, and we're not dreaming. We are faced with situations that we have to deal with step by step by not trying to aggravate Belgium's financial situation. In relation to Mrs Fonck's remarks, we did, but we did, programming on a legislature. We don't know how to do everything at the same time. We are programming and moving forward gradually. A whole series of statements were made. They must be discussed and transformed into legal texts. We're moving forward. We will take stock at the end of the legislature. I am sorry, we are absolutely not indifferent to what needs to be done, and we are doing it as we go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u107	You'll ask Mr. Bacquelaine the questions. You've already done it and he's already answered you. We're still doing the questions again. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u108	Yes, he did! Of course I do! Employment effects are beginning to emerge. According to the Institute of National Accounts' recent statistics, between the end of 2014 and the end of 2016, nearly 105,000 jobs were created in our country. We are doing better than expected, since the Federal Office of the Plan planned, with unchanged policy, the creation of 56,000 jobs since January 1, 2015. As a result, the government's policy of creating jobs has increased this figure. This job creation is also confirmed by the latest report on the National Bank's economic projections, which reports the creation of 55 000 jobs in 2016. This good performance is partly explained, according to the governor of the National Bank, by the policy of wage moderation of the Michel government, which makes new recruitments really less expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u109	Mr Piedboeuf, my speech will be brief. [[(...): (...):]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u110	No, they're numbers. They're not yours. These are numbers I know. Any job created is, of course, good to take. There is a lot of glorification on the part of the government and the majority on the employment issue. But let me recall one observation. Indeed, what was the goal that the government had set itself? In its government agreement, it planned to meet its European target of an employment rate equivalent to 73.2% at the end of the legislative term. But what is the number of jobs, Mr. Piedboeuf, that must be created to meet this rate at the end of the legislature? Is this 100,000 jobs? No. Is this 200,000 jobs? No. According to the calculations, this number is expected to reach more than 400,000 jobs between 2014 and the end of the legislature. I heard Minister Peeters say that 210,000 jobs will have been created at the end of this Parliament. In doing so, in practice, you reach half the goal you set yourself in terms of job creation. All of this to tell you that we expect the government to be lucid. My point is not part of the criticism. It is to ask you to stop boasting about these numbers. Let's roll up the sleeves so that the employment rate of 73.2% is reached and above all, to avoid slamming on one side what you tried to give on the other. Earlier, you were talking about SMEs. That's very good. We're creating a tax shift. Social and employer contributions are abolished on the first job. That's very good! But we are still waiting for a strong and clear policy to combat social dumping – the construction sector has reported this very recently. These jobs are being destroyed as they progress. It is also expected that the government will not take measures to increase the cost of employment. I am thinking of recent decisions on company cars. I am thinking of what you have decided in relation to the employers' sanction on the separation of pregnant women. I am thinking of what you have decided on the sanction of employers for sick people. These measures, in the end, also weigh on the cost of labour. Let's roll up our sleeves to avoid having measures that penalise employment on the one hand and give us as our target this employment rate of 73.2%. This clearly requires more than 400,000 jobs in the legislature. This is what the government has set itself and must therefore respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u111	It is not glorifying to see the numbers! If we can double it, we'll do it! A popular wisdom says you have to dream very high to realize very low. We have that ambition! And if, in the legislature, we do create 20,000 jobs, they will be created, Mrs Fonck. They will no longer have to be created and then we will try to do better in the coming legislature, since we hope to continue. You're talking about social dumping. We have never taken as many measures and plans as we did in this Parliament, even if all this has to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u112	They're not effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u113	You always have solutions for everyone! We've seen you at work before!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u114	Mr Piedboeuf, do you mean the dismantling of the Social Inspectorate? If there is one sector with which we have to work, because it is an operator who uses a lot of labour and is essential in relation to the ecological transition of our economy, in relation to the isolation of our houses, in relation to the infrastructure in which we have to invest, it is the construction sector! Week after week, month after month, the construction industry, employers and workers, warns us, describes to us the tens of thousands of jobs destroyed because of the directive on the posting of workers that your party and all the traditional parties voted in the European Parliament. He explains to us how ineffective Belgium is, compared to the few manoeuvres left to it by the European Commission, to combat this really problematic phenomenon. What can you rejoice at in your actions in the fight against social dumping, as a representative of the majority? It's zero and more, Mr Piedboeuf, be aware of it! Regulatory measures cost nothing. It is a question of political will that you do not have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u115	Not only do we have the political will but, as far as the sector is concerned, we hear it. The minister has met with him several times and we are gradually trying to improve the necessary policy on social dumping. Do you give us lessons in efficiency? I would be curious to see what the commission of inquiry on voltaic panels will produce as effects at Walloon level and what lessons of efficiency you will give us afterwards! Walloon Minister-President... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u116	Excuse me, Mr. President. I am certainly not used to intervening at this stage in the debates, but I cannot let it be said here that nothing has been done about social dumping. On the contrary, and I can illustrate for half an hour the details of the measures taken and decided: more than 40 measures, including those adopted here in Parliament, the changes in the rules on public procurement and many provisions, lead to the fact that, for the first time in several years now, in Belgium, the construction sector is being recommitted. Of course, there's still work. Of course, the figures that are regularly quoted are figures for 2014, 2013 and early 2015, but I am pleased to share with you this information that, today and in connection with the regional powers that we regularly meet on this subject, we have managed at this stage to reverse the curve of social dumping with net job creation, also back in the construction sector. I challenge anyone to prove that we would not have done anything about social dumping! Please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u117	Minister, it does not happen a week without the construction sector and Confederation Construction, as well as the employers, Mr Borsus, denouncing the situations of social dumping against them. You are talking about the transposition of the public procurement directive. You have used at most a quarter of the possibilities left by Europe to provide qualitative criteria favouring employers who use labour for which there is a payment of social contributions. Have you read what the labour auditors think about the reform of the social inspection of your colleague Secretary of State responsible for social fraud? You cannot gargarize yourself with results in this area, Mr. Borsus. These are regulatory measures that are possible, not costly measures. I hear that every time the opposition proposes alternatives, we shout: "You're going to raise taxes!" You have the steering wheel in the fight against social fraud; you are using them insufficiently. Read just what Confederation Construction says on the subject. They're not suspected of being partisan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u118	I'm not saying you didn't take any action. But where you could adopt an ambitious position on the fight against dumping, you did not! The best example is the resistance you have shown to strongly transpose the European directive. You chose to make it a minimalist transposition. Where you could be able to guarantee the principle of "equal pay for equal work", you did not. Through this there are major breaches, which allow a whole series of posted workers to come to us to take places. It is therefore both harmful to our workers and terribly harmful to our employers. You say the results are there. We have just talked about the construction sector. You heard him, you read him. This sector again manifested itself a week or ten days ago. But it's not just him! The list of sectors concerned is very long. With regard to the European directive that you have transposed, which allows you to tackle the problem, you have decided not to do anything and to reassess things in a year or two. These are missed opportunities, yet they were major levers to protect our workers and jobs, and to avoid this terribly unfair competition between employers at home. That, of course, is what I want to talk about. Have you taken any action? Yes! Have you missed opportunities to go much further? The answer is yes too!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u119	Mr President, I will not go back to the terms "gargarism" and "glorification", because it is not at all the trademark of this government to do the smart thing. We are taking the necessary steps as we move forward. Sometimes we are wrong and then correct our mistakes, as we have done for certain tax provisions. The results are here. A short time ago, the Walloon Minister-President welcomed the creation of jobs, but we are, of course, delighted that he welcomes our policy. In terms of purchasing power, the European wage survey prepared by Deloitte, which is also unsuspecting, published two weeks ago, once again establishes that the measures taken by the government increase purchasing power as it sees an increase of 500 euros in annual net income on average. That's right, they're averages, but this increase is real. Moreover, it was the low and medium wages that benefited most. The study also indicates that the "additional net income" effect could almost double by 2019. Secondly, the government has removed the wage disadvantage our country was suffering from. According to the Central Economic Council, the handicap between Belgium and the three neighbouring countries fell from 4.1% in 2013, to 2.9% in 2014 and to 1.5% in 2015. The gap is expected to be negative in 2016. As a result, our government will have removed the wage handicap introduced in 1996. These are facts. In terms of business creation, with 88,963 companies born in 2015, we are seeing the best performance in ten years. This gives a net creation of 19,411 companies in 2015 due to the disappearance of some companies. The trend continues in 2016 with an increase of 6.4% compared to the first quarter of 2015, as indicated by Graydon. You were talking about the employment rate. The Federal Planning Office notes that it has increased from 63.5 to 64.5% and is expected to reach 64.8% in 2017. Of course, this is still insufficient, but we are continuing the work. As for our trade balance, Mr. Laaouej, it came out of red for the first time. Over the past 10 years, exports have increased by 5.4% in 2016 compared to 3.2% for imports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u120	Mr Piedboeuf, you're talking about the employment rate. You will allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the very slight increase in the employment rate is, here too, less than what is observed elsewhere in Europe. Doesn't that bother you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u121	I believe that the comparison with certain European countries, particularly neighbouring countries, such as the Netherlands, deserves to be done because we realize that they have taken steps long before us. We are now taking the steps we should have taken earlier. There is indeed a time lag, but we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u122	Your argument would be true if we were to observe what you have just said about a long series, if, indeed, since the wage differentials were supposedly more favourable for our neighbouring countries, there was in their head a higher increase than that observed in Belgium. But that is not true, Mr. Piedboeuf. The question then arises as to whether your policy does not lead to the development of the employment rate; if, in reality, by multiplying precarious jobs, you are not yourself widening a negative gap in the development of the employment rate with all the other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u124	Mr. Piedboeuf said, and it was interesting, that this government had a capacity to question when the policies decided upon did not lead to the desired results. The difficulty arises from the fact that most indicators (budgetary, employment rates, quality of employment, bank loans to enterprises, etc.) are negative today, very unfavourable to the action of your government. You answer, like the N-VA, that it is because you have to go even further and faster in the wall. What is needed, Mr. Piedboeuf, is a question of the choices made. Accept with us and all those who observe you – the European Commission, the Court of Auditors, the Monitoring Committee – that this does not work. Ask us something else rather than say that we need to go even faster and further to the disaster!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u125	In my opinion, you do not read the articles completely because all these institutions confirm that we are moving in the right direction and that we must continue these reforms. We are told that at article length. In my opinion, you do not have the right readings, but I am not surprised! In terms of competitiveness, Belgium has progressed for the first time in five years in the ranking established by the World Economic Forum and, according to the Manpower barometer, business recruitment intentions have increased five degrees on the net job forecast scale. This is the most optimistic forecast since the third quarter of 2011. Also, thanks to the reforms, the overall tax and parafiscal burden has fallen by 1.2 billion. The tax and parafiscal burden on labour fell by 3.4 billion. While the measures taken by the government have made it possible to return to the path of competitiveness and confidence of enterprises, they have also helped to boost employment and gradually increase the purchasing power of workers. With regard to fiscal consolidation, the 2017 budget is characterised by a desire to reduce public expenditure as a matter of priority. To limit the negative impact of consolidation on economic growth, the government has chosen to save on spending and not further increase the tax burden. That is what the IMF advocates. Savings on public spending remain the only good solution. My party has always advocated efficient and transparent use of public funds. The measures taken at the level of health care were discussed at length. However, we must control the growth of our health care spending and keep to the path we have set for ourselves. Savings measures are mainly part of the pharmaceutical pact. Accountability was planned for the sector to control its spending, and that will be the case. For the surplus, the other savings are not to assign a mass of indexation to the claimants. This is indeed a considerable effort and we are fully aware of it. As in other sectors, the government has announced, under the auspices of Maggie De Block, a series of reforms in the health care sector. I will mention the hospital reform to thoroughly reorganise the landscape and develop a new hospital concept, the pact of the future with the pharmaceutical industry to guarantee investment in new medicines and allow patients to have access to the latest treatments, the pact with the medical technology industry to improve the safety, quality, efficiency and accessibility of medical devices for the patient, the pact with the insurers in order to empower them. And finally, the plan to combat waste and abuse, which aims at the proper use of resources, the efficiency of health care and effective control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u126	Mr President, just for the sake of clarity of our discussions, I am going back to my file and to the evolution of the employment rate. I would simply point out that, from 2014 to 2016, the average employment rate in the euro area increased by 1.4% while it decreased by 0.2% in Belgium. That is, at least the facts are fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u127	We will continue the reforms to ensure the sustainability of our system, given the ageing of the population, the increase in chronic diseases and the evolution of medical techniques. My colleague Damien Thiéry will return to these points during the thematic discussions. At the level of taxation, therefore, with this objective of fiscal consolidation, the option is to reduce public expenditure instead of creating new taxes on labour or consumption. In this spirit, all the necessary new tax revenues are directed towards capital income or environmental taxation. I'm going to go through the details, since you know him. With regard to the estimate of revenues discussed earlier, my group welcomes the establishment of a task force to re-evaluate the method of estimating revenues and to assess whether the government's planned buffer is sufficient. This is in line with the need for transparency and a fairer and more predictable tax revenue. Indeed, while spending is in line with expectations, revenue presents regular difficulties. This needs to be addressed. With regard to the strengthening of the fight against tax fraud, the amount of EUR 50 million was mentioned earlier. That's right. This amount is included in the budget but, whether at national or international level, there are still many challenges in the fight against tax evasion. We've seen him with all the scandals discovered. More transparent and simpler legislation and better exchange of information between the various Belgian and foreign public services have a major role to play in this respect. We must continue our efforts, but progress, as no other government has ever done, has been made. In the first four months of 2016, the fight against tax fraud brought in 228 million euros, i.e. the equivalent of 2013, 2015 and almost the equivalent of 2014. In addition, I heard Judge Claise, whom we met, say that he had returned EUR 100 million last month. I therefore assume that the results of the year will be exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u128	Justice Claise, with whom we were debating on a television set, also explained that without strengthening the capacity of the judiciary and prosecutors, especially those in charge of combating financial crime, they would not get away with it. It may also be necessary to do justice to what he said. I would like to ask you a very concrete question, Mr. Piedboeuf. As you know, the famous fairness tax, the minimum corporate tax, introduces tax justice between SMEs, which do not have much scope for tax deduction, and large companies, which are filling up tax niches. This fairness tax is a little threatened by the report of a General Advocate to the Court of Justice, which states that while it is compatible with European primary law, it could raise questions in the light of a directive. Are you undertaking, on behalf of the MR Group, to support a law of reparation - in other words, a proposal for a law of reparation? I feel that the Minister of Finance is quite ambiguous when I ask him the question. He doesn't really find out. You passed this law under the previous legislature. If a legal and technical solution is provided, for example by the opposition – given the inertia of the government or the Minister of Finance – would you be prepared to support it? Can you make this commitment, Mr. Piedboeuf?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u129	We are always ready, Mr Laaouej, as you know, to take the necessary steps, at the time when it is necessary, and when the texts are sufficiently legally secure, so as to bring about the revenue. You're talking about Judge Claise, who says he can't afford it. You said Mr. Crombez had increased the ISI officers by 100 units. We did the same thing with economists, lawyers, and dataminers. We've doubled the tax judges. It is true that we have difficulty recruiting, but we have doubled. And we've doubled the staff available to the justice system. When we have even more resources, we will do even more. But it was done. And all this is in line with the strengthening of the fight against tax fraud. We are in favour of tax justice, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u130	Finally, I have the opportunity to respond to this argument of the 100 additional agents. First, according to my information, not all the 100 additional agents at the Special Tax Inspectorate are here. Secondly, some of them come from other tax services, including control centres. Control centres are also involved in the fight against tax fraud. You are therefore moving within the workforce. In memory, we had released an envelope of €20 million for additional commitments and not for slippages within the FPS Finance. Here too, please, have a little modesty and humility with regard to the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u131	Master Afschrift's remark will not have escaped you when he finds that the means in Belgium are sufficient. We still have 25 000 agents in Belgium, while a country like the Netherlands has 18 000 for a much wider sector than ours, with even better efficiency. So the means are sufficient. What is needed is to assign them to the right places. And you are just saying, and you are right: we are moving them from one place to another precisely to focus on the fight against the big tax fraud. Because it's better to take care of the big fraudsters than the small traders. We support this move.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u132	We have to put the package on the big tax fraud, we agree. The tax administration must also do its job generally for all taxpayers. It's only fair to do it, too. What amazes me – and it's even a little amusing – you're talking about Master Afschrift, who explains to you that there are enough tax officers. Do you expect anything else from a tax lawyer who defends taxpayers who have problems with the tax administration here and there? With all due respect, that's not the problem. But maybe you could have taken a reference or a slightly more objective opinion. For the rest, I am sorry, I regularly debate on a television set with tax lawyers. Some arguments are admissible, others a little less. So, I think your references seem a little surprising. I think it is better to ask the Court of Auditors for its opinion. I know that for you, the Court of Auditors is wrong. But she does regular audits of the FPS Finances and points out where there are deficits, where managers are not filled. It was she who had already pointed out that the Special Inspectorate of Taxes did not have its framework filled, which led us, under the previous legislature, to at least fill the framework of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes. What I'm telling you is that in the control centres, we also sometimes deal with big files. In other words, not all large files are ISI files, fortunately indeed. The ISI is a thousand files a year of memory. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe a little more with Panama Papers of course, Swiss Leaks, etc. But there are tens of thousands of other cases that concern the big tax fraud. I take this opportunity to send you a message, but it is actually addressed to the government as a whole, and in particular to the Prime Minister. Attention to OECDFO, beware of what you are told about OECDFO. You will lose a lot of money if you let Mrs De Bolle and her entourage offer you her dismantling on the pretext of decentralization. Keep a strike force integrated! I am speaking here beyond partisan discussions, from a point of view of the general interest. Judge Claise doesn't say anything else. If I don't believe you, what I can understand, Judge Claise doesn't say anything else: keep OECDFO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u133	Mr. Piedboeuf, you're focusing all your attention on the ISI. It is true that the ISI is an important body, but first of all, I think it is necessary to see that the whole FPS Finance plays a role in the fight against fraud, and especially upstream of the ISI, in order to provide it with dossiers which the ISI can then deepen. Secondly, the importance of the judiciary at the level of financial crime. Justice Claise says there's a cruel lack of resources. The people of the ISI say it themselves, and have come to tell us. Third, in the FPS Finances, there are services that deal with major international tax fraud without the ISI. I am thinking, for example, of the service, not very extensive in my opinion, which deals with transfer pricing. We had the case of Caterpillar, where we see a supposed manipulation, but on a large scale, of transfer prices; this company is really a social thug who closed the factory in Gosselies. At the time of the strongest emotion associated with the closure, the Prime Minister had been asked to conduct a study on the possible handling of transfer prices by Caterpillar. Recently, the Prime Minister replied to me in committee that in fact he had commissioned this study, obtained the results but could not disclose them. One wonders whether this study exists, since in the end, one cannot see if it exists and cannot say anything about it. She'd be in one of her drawers. One wonders why this study was commissioned if it is not to disclose the findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u134	I am very pleased that Mr Laaouej mentioned Mr Claise. For those of you who have missed it, Mr Claise has received the prize of democracy from P&V, a renowned PS bulwark. I understand that there is a certain attachment between the PS and Mr Claise, but let me distance myself from that. By the way, with the branch 23 being traded there, everything's gonna be okay. But what is striking, Mr Laaouej, is that we have come quietly to the conclusion that there is a very different approach and treatment of tax dossiers in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u135	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u136	Wait, wait, wait...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u138	On the basis of the EBA ter...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u139	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u140	It's amusing. You are in a very bad position, because at EBA there are 6 000 files regularized. In Flanders, 50% of capital cases are regularised, in Wallonia and Brussels 5%. That dossiers are treated unequally both in the area of justice, including prosecution, and in the area of the BBI, we will once get rid of them. It is quite striking that at some point all the judicial directors of the BBI here said that what happened in Ghent and what Mr Anthonissen said was wrong. We will look into this matter and see how you have organised it in the past. I am thinking in particular of the unequal treatment between the different regions in the area of persecution. It may well be good, but I am not saying that it is the case that the fact that there is much less persecution in certain sectors means that tax-deprecated capital is not declared. The Minister does not do anything about tax fraud; I think it is quite a punishment for a judge of inquiry to take those words in his mouth, but the figures will ultimately prove the opposite. I'd be very careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u141	I will tell you, Mr Van de Velde, I find your allusions to the fact that a magistrate is French-speaking, sometimes to the left. That's deplorable! And now you venture into the different sociology field in the North, Brussels, Wallonia, etc. to explain the behaviour of public prosecutors and tax administrations. Quite frankly, your tendency to communitarize everything allows you to escape the real questions, the real debates: that of tax justice, that of the general interest, of the good management of public accounts, of the quality of legislation as well. It is still you, first of all, who pressured the government to adopt a tax privilege for diamond dealers and who do not honour you! There are more! So please, Mr. Van de Velde, a little humility and a little correction because you have all slowly, with a recurring slide but at the same time which is reinforced day by day, a disdain for the institutions! I didn't hear you when a senior official, President of the FPS Finances, gave a satisfecite and encouraged the policy of the Minister of Finance, coming out of his role. I didn't hear you! If I understand right now, with you, freedom of expression or the possibility for someone to give their opinion is in itself a problem. But, above all, what is deplorable is your tendency to communitize everything. It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u142	Mr President, since we have several ministers here – MR like you, Mr Piedboeuf – in relation to what has just happened here, again, more than a Community touch is given to this issue of taxation. Day after day, everything makes flour at the mill for at least one partner of your majority, for all the time all communitize above all, moreover, when it arranges it and according to the data that arrange it. Since you are in the gallery, I would like to know the position of the MR in relation to what your majority partner has just done here. Frankly, we have not heard the MR position in recent days on this francophone judge, insisting three times for some, on the file of this Syrian family. I would remind you that there were not only one judge but several. But no, it was all of a sudden the fault of a francophone judge! Again, here, a few days later, on a tax debate, we put a layer of it back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u143	I know your position and I can tell you that it does not surprise me! But I would like to know the position of the MR. And don't do a little trick to try not to answer, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u144	Retain Mrs. Fonck's question, Mr. Piedboeuf. I'm curious about your answer. That said, the issue before us is the fight against tax fraud. Once again, you welcome the results achieved. Let me tell you that this is about the poor relative of the government. We are fortunate that Mrs Sleurs is here, even if it is not as Secretary of State for the fight against tax fraud, which she was for two years with a balance sheet which led to this competence being entrusted to the Minister of Finance. Still, today, the result is no different. In the Panama Papers Committee, officials responsible for combating tax fraud were heard. We found that they are forced to read open sources, newspapers to try to find out where they have to look while foreign tax administrations with which they work have files that we, for our part, are unable to get. There is a finding of deficiency at all levels of the fight against tax fraud, starting with the administration, continuing with the financial police. Reference was made to OECDFO. One could also mention the federal unit in charge of combating trafficking in works of art and antiquities, justice with tax judges who, for budgetary reasons, are not replaced, which is unbearable. The amount of uncollected taxes has never been higher. It amounts to billions of euros. This is not about more taxes, but about better taxes. Those who fraud do so to the detriment of the vast majority of our fellow citizens, who are honest taxpayers. Contrary to what you say, this government does not have enough action to combat tax fraud and it does not serve anything but to launch a smokescreen. It is as if it were said that, like Optima Bank, all banks located in Flanders were poorly managed and organised fraud. Why is it allowed here to claim that according to its spoken language, its origin, who has given a prize to whom, the political options are different? The will must be to fight fraud. But this struggle is not sufficiently present, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u145	Mr President, I do not want to complicate the debate, but my reaction is to Mr. Van Hees concerning the question of Caterpillar and the investigations that have been requested. As far as the Minutes are concerned, in order not to leave such a counter-truth unanswered, I would like to state what Johan Van Overtveldt and I have told you in committee. We did indeed request a study from the administration concerning Caterpillar. The administration has rightly told us that it cannot disclose individual information about a taxpayer. That is the reason, Mr Van Hees, which I explained to you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u146	I still have a few answers to make. On Rob Van de Velde's remark, I think things are much more prosaic than that. When we see, for example, that 80% of exports come from Flanders, 14% from Brussels and 6% from Wallonia, it is clear that if we look at economic development, there is probably more reason to have revenues on one side of the linguistic border than on the other. This is nothing Community, it is an observation of the economic reality. Things are more prosaic and I have a slightly different analysis. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u147	That's what I'm saying: 80%, 14% and 6%. When there is more economic activity and wealth in a place, necessarily, you may also have more attempts at fraud. That's all. I do not analyze this in a lack of effectiveness of the Francophone tax officers. In fact, when I see you reacting as a former tax officer, I suspect the nervousness and attention needed to deal with taxpayers. As far as Mr. Afschrift is concerned, he is also a university professor, so he also has intellectual honesty. When he says that in the Netherlands there are 18,000 controllers and that in our country there are 25,000 controllers, that it is not a question of means but of people's orientation, I think he is right. When you moved agents to the fight against tax fraud, you were effective. So we can continue to do that. In the case of OECDFO, just as the agents of the ISI are distributed territorially, in the same way the OECDFO is distributed territorially. We'll see if it doesn't work. It's a request from the police in his organization. Establishing competent cells in the right places is an idea. Now we'll see. In any case, this legislation is prior to the entry into office of this Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u148	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u149	If we continue in this way, we will never let Mr. Piedboeuf finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u150	I note that Mr Vande Lanotte has a problem with Mr Afschrift. More than 30 anti-fraud measures are being implemented to reduce the temptation of fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u151	Let's try a little bit to forget the arguments ad hominem because otherwise, we're not gonna get away with it. Mr. Piedboeuf, Mr. Afschrift is indeed a university professor. But that's not what's being called into question. I am just saying that in order to be able to make a judgment as to whether or not there are enough tax officers, I would rely on the Court of Auditors rather than on a lawyer who defends taxpayers who have sex with the tax authorities. I didn't say anything else, with respect for each other. On the other hand, I shall return for a moment to the international comparisons between Belgium and Holland. I heard Mr Afschrift say one day that there were more tax officers in Belgium than in the United States. Except in the United States, you have federal tax administrations. It's a very large country. There are even parish taxes there. This means that there are tax collections that take place at a very high level of decentralization. So international comparisons are not good. This is also the case with Holland, by the way. It's not all in the finance department. There are agencies outside. So, watch out for international comparisons. For the rest, the Prime Minister mentioned something under the old government, but I didn't hear, I don't know what it was.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u152	This concerned OECDFO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u153	So we must pay tribute to Mrs Milquet, to whom Mrs De Bolle had already submitted a note trying to pass the decentralization and break-up of the OECDFO and who had resisted. Unfortunately, under this government, you're getting caught. Prime Minister, I'm telling you very simply, don't get caught.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u154	I thought you mentioned Mrs. Milquet for parish taxes. I was therefore saying that more than 30 anti-fraud measures are being implemented in order to reduce the temptation of fraud. The triangle exchange of information, tax regularization and transparency tax will know its cruise speed. With regard to the Cayman tax you mentioned, our government is the first to tackle tax constructions in tax havens. It's, again, a fact. A multi-disciplinary Justice-Finance Task Force will be created to analyse the fight against fraud through the use of tax constructions by optimising the Una Via procedure in order to ensure an effective approach. All planned measures, both in prevention and in repression, will be implemented. My group will support any steps to improve tax collection and equity. Whether fraud is tax or social, it is contrary to the demand for justice of the population. The conclusions of the Panama Papers Committee will be put into force in order to curb both tax evasion and tax evasion at best. On security and terrorism, the Government also confirms its commitments by giving priority to the security budget and the fight against terrorism. As early as spring 2015, amounts had been released: a provision of 250 million euros, then a terrorist provision of 400 million euros in the aftermath of the attacks of 13 November 2015. The 2017 budget is part of this dynamic and pursues its objective of providing additional resources to raise our level of security and strengthen our services in their daily fight against the terrorist scourge. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry established in the aftermath of the attacks will make final recommendations and conclusions by spring. The majority, however, chose not to wait and to move forward: projects continue to materialize, human and material resources continue to arrive. We must continue in this direction and make up for the backlog in the past. Security is at the heart of our group's concerns and we can only welcome the budgetary decisions taken in connection with the preparation of the 2017 budget. It is clear that the resources allocated to the State Security Service, the Crisis Centre, the OCAM and civil security are on the increase. Increased security is not only a budgetary issue, but can be seen as a converging set of forces involved in improving our living environment. In this respect, citizen participation, the collaboration of professional associations and supra-local cooperation contribute to the development of an effective security policy. In addition to this vision, systems to alert the population in the event of a crisis or major accident are already and will still be in place by this government in 2017. In addition, the exchange of information between the services themselves at all levels can be decisive in certain circumstances. With regard to civil security, efforts to finance the reform will continue, the agreed funding will be maintained and no savings will be made at this level. Finally, it is of course certain that the protection and preservation of the role of police officer is essential, in order to ensure one of the most important public service tasks: ensuring the safety of the citizen. With regard to the total federal police budget, the total appropriation planned for 2017 is up from 15.82% in 2014. In this way, we hope to gain the full support of everyone against obscurantism and the Islamic State. We will continue structural reforms. The Government is showing encouraging results, but more work remains to be done. We must therefore continue. This budgetary agreement is in line with this by providing for a series of additional structural reforms aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of our businesses and creating employment. Again, safeguarding the competitiveness of our businesses is one of our priorities. We have managed to overcome our wage handicap, and it should not derail again. Eurostat specifically indicated that labour costs had increased in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the previous year. Although this is still far less than the increase that Germany, the Netherlands and France experienced over the same period, it is essential to set the benchmarks that will allow us to avoid any further wage slippage. That is precisely why the government will come early next year with the modernization of the 1996 Act, and my group welcomes this. This law has not been reformed in 20 years. Today, it is necessary to review its mechanism in order to maintain the gains in competitiveness found in the light of wage developments in neighbouring countries. A second aspect of labour market reform concerns work that can be done or, more specifically, how to better organise work. As we know, our companies need to adapt. They need more flexibility to cope with economic reality. On the other hand, workers are demanding more flexibility from their employers to reconcile their personal and professional lives. A recent Acerta study of 2,000 workers, dating back to 2016, showed that 70% of workers want more flexibility. They want to be able to work more at times and recover hours at times when their privacy has to take over. They also want to use a career account to save days off for later. On all sides, greater flexibility is required. This does not mean that we will work more, as some want to make people believe. The rule remains that of thirty-eight hours, but it will be calculated on an annual basis with the possibility of up to forty-five hours at certain times of the year. At present, ladies and gentlemen, 1.2 million workers operate under this flexibility regime. The measure will now be extended to everyone. When we talk about labour market reform, we cannot ignore digitisation and e-commerce, a rapidly growing sector. Our companies are unable to position themselves, while France, the Netherlands and Germany account for three 72% of the sales volume in Europe. We know how much our businesses are now suffering from the rigidity of our social legislation, especially with regard to night work. Our consumption habits change, our lifestyles change, companies have no choice but to adapt. Today, they cannot compete with their neighbours, because they do not play with equal weapons. They lose daily market shares and prevent job creation in our country. We must allow them to develop their competitive positions. We do this by allowing night work from now on. These are reforms in terms of flexibility to which the MR fully subscribes. In terms of youth employment, the figures remain very worrying. What is true for Brussels is also true for the whole territory. Their employment rate was 33.2% in 2000 and fell to 23.8% in 2015. The youth unemployment rate has even increased by 30 per cent over the last five years in Wallonia. The government has therefore decided to take this problem with itself. In order to encourage companies to hire young people to give them a chance to enter a first job, the government has decided to guarantee a minimum wage cost depending on the age of the young worker. Employers will be financially encouraged to hire them. This is any benefit for young people without qualifications. Other reform expected...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u155	Mr. Piedboeuf, you announced several measures in October. I am thinking of it, ISOC, the gains-values, the national investment plan, the company cars and, above all, the mobility budget. There are also starters jobs. You've decided not to decide. Indeed, we see no trace of it in the program law, even though I understood that within the government you had decided to move forward through it. As far as starter jobs are concerned, the decision is also postponed. I would like you to guarantee, in the event of a reduction in the minimum wage, that the net salary of these young people will not be reduced and that it will be only a reduction in the gross wage. The failure to see this clarification in the programme law and to return the text because of technical difficulties makes me think that the purpose of this manoeuvre is simply to hide the lack of compensation for the net salary. I hope that this government will not reduce the net wages of these young people. You committed yourself to it. Since this commitment is not included in the program law, I hope that you will not go back in this area. I would again like to plead in his favour, because it is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u156	Mr. Chairman, I formally confirm what I said on behalf of the government several weeks ago at the time of the government statement. Last Friday, the Council of Ministers formally approved the mechanics that will guarantee the net salary, including the consideration of future wage increases for these same low-wage young people, which are being granted under the tax shift, which will continue to deploy. Thus, not only is the net wage guaranteed, but the general wage increases for low wages under the tax shift will also be acquired for the young people in question. The mechanics were formally approved last week in the Council of Ministers. It will therefore come to Parliament very quickly. Initially, we thought we could still do so by amending the program law. I will check by what technical means we are going to come to Parliament, so as not to mislead Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u157	...Okay! Check it out!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u158	Verification was necessary in order to examine from a technical point of view, in accordance with Parliament, how we can arrive as quickly as possible with this precision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u159	Mr. President, I'm almost done. Another expected reform is corporate tax reform. For MR, corporate tax reform is essential and particular attention must be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim must be to strengthen our country's attractiveness, better support for SMEs and job creation, while strengthening security, legal stability and tax justice. There is a need for innovation because, without changing our structure, our country runs the risk of a loss of competitiveness, therefore of employment and investment. My group hopes that this reform will give foreign investors a positive image so that they can be part of our economic fabric and create jobs alongside our SMEs. Taxation is a major lever for reviving our economy, creating jobs and improving our budgets. For this majority, progress in both economic efficiency and justice is crucial. These two points go hand in hand and must be mutually reinforcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u160	Are you and Mr Piedboeuf, the MR Group, in favour of taxing capital gains on shares as desired by the CD&V?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u161	As you know because we have told you many times, several projects are being studied at the same time and as we are concerned about tax justice, it will be at the end of the work that will be carried out. I'll close soon, Mr. President. Mr Van Hees, I would like to return to your question because, while reading, I was thinking and I did not understand your question about deciles. I said I'd answer it before the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u162	We must conclude, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u163	What is important in the international context is to maintain the pace of structural reforms and to continue the consolidation of expenditure reduction. The latest perspectives of the European Commission are in this direction and demonstrate that work remains to be done in 2018 and 2019. The shift tax and structural reforms carried out by the government are positively involved in the recovery of the labour market and growth, but efforts still need to be made in terms of spending cuts and job creation. With a mandatory levy level of 54%, we must preserve our economic model by daring to take reforms. Our priority for the coming months is to boost both public and private investment, significantly reduce our CO2 emissions and continue to reform our socio-economic model by continuing the fiscal consolidation that has begun. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u164	Mr. President, I didn't mean to interrupt Mr. Piedboeuf. As an observer outside our debates may feel that the opposition is exclusively critical, I would like at least to welcome his statement, and in particular to highlight a quote that I found absolutely admirable and that I want to highlight. I believe it will be the quotation of the day, perhaps even the citation of the legislature. You said, Mr. Piedboeuf, "You have to dream very high to realize very low." I find that this government's fiscal policy could not be better summarized. This is a quote that should be included in the government's budget documents. It is no better to say that the government's budgetary objectives have become chimeral and that the results achieved are far from the ambitions shown.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u165	I simply regret, Mr President, that Mr Dispa, who often ascends in the chair of truth, does not have enough culture and poetic meaning to understand the meaning of this sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u166	Thank you, Mr Piedboeuf. Mr Piedboeuf began his speech at 12.15 p.m. and spoke until 13:40 p.m. That's your decision, with the interruptions. Not for me, but if we continue at that rate, it will take a while here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u167	Mr President, perhaps we should learn from that and not do everything in the end and ensure that we have more time to discuss the budget. Then we will not have to sit here at night and then we can have a serious debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip145x.u168	It's been noted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 20 December 2016 at 2.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday 20 December 2016 at 2.30 p.m.
