ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, the cost of ambulance services under Emergency Medical Assistance (EMA) is a fixed lump sum and variable share. The Royal Decree of 7 April 1995 stipulates that for the first ten kilometres, the benefits amount to 61.63 euros. From the eleventh to the twentieth, the amount is €6.16 per kilometre. And finally, from the twenty-first kilometer onwards, the service will return to 4.71 euros per kilometer. It then appears that the price of the benefits will be different depending on the distance between the person requesting assistance and the location of the emergency services available. For example, a person away from the barracks where the ambulance is parked and the hospital will pay more than a person living close to the services. Similarly, persons residing in the same location who sought emergency medical assistance will pay a different rate depending on where the ambulance came from. Minister, do you not think that there is some form of injustice in this context in terms of accessibility to care? The AMU fulfils the principle of adequate aid as quickly as possible and there is no question of calling this into question. But although you have recently released EUR 12 million, funding for the AMU remains very precarious in Belgium, while in some other countries urgent medical aid is totally or almost totally free for patients. I would therefore like to know what will happen today in terms of the programming and financing of these services in the future. Have any contacts with your colleague Minister of the Interior ever been made in this direction? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u2	Mr Delannois, in order to find ways of resolving these problems in a sustainable manner, I have already asked for the opinion of the National Council for Urgent Medical Aid. One of the elements of this opinion is the funding of emergency services. The opinion provides for funding in two ways: first, a permanence package and then variable funding depending on the acts taken. To implement these funding arrangements, I have released EUR 12 million for urgent medical aid. Nevertheless, it is clear that this sum does not solve the node in which urgent medical aid has been present for too long. However, it is not obvious to find additional funds in a very difficult budgetary context. To deal with this problem, we are working closely with the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, to settle the financing system for ambulance workers. There is currently no funding for the permanence. Benefits are linked to the number of kilometres. A sustainable system would be a system in which two patients who at the same time need an ambulance would pay the same amount, not one, three times as much as the other. I am very attentive to this question because it is often a surprise for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you. I think you pointed out the problem. The relief zone of which I am President has a lot of difficulty starting up. Many people see these rescue zones as famous monsters. We must not commit too many odd things. It is difficult to explain that two people who live on the same street, the same day, may have to pay three times more depending on the origin of the ambulance (from Tournai or Mouscron). If we could arrive at a system of mutualisation at the level of the relief zones, it would be a system of solidarity easier to pass on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u4	We have noted the difficulty of the situation for years on the ground. We are working on this issue with the two competent ministers. We'll find solutions. We will receive the advice of the National Emergency Medical Assistance Council, which will be very helpful in helping us find a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, in June 2015, Parliament approved the bill with various health provisions. Article 15 provided for the possibility of reducing or abolishing the user ticket for services performed on live donors. This measure is obviously very positive for us because it has long been expected. It is known that in the context of a gift by a living person, a series of pre-operative consultations, laboratory examinations and technical services are required, alongside the intervention and its follow-up. At present, it appears that substantial moderator tickets are being requested from the licensor on this occasion and, for some, this proves to be a kind of threshold not to want to cross or at least one obstacle. Both medically and economically, this is obviously a little paradoxical. It would therefore be a pity that the moderator ticket represents a brake in this case. To avoid this, the King was given the opportunity to reduce or remove the moderator ticket for the services provided to the living donor. At the time I asked this question I think that the royal decrees in question had not yet been taken. Do you confirm this information? If so, can you indicate the status of the reflection? What's the timing? If not, can you specify the content of these royal decrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u6	Madam President, Mr Thiéry, the royal decrees implementing this measure are currently being drafted and should be discussed by the competent authorities before the end of this semester, which means before the end of June. They are expected to enter into force before the end of this year. This measure is also once again part of the medical-mutualist agreement of 2015. As a first step, for technical, legal and practical reasons, the deletion of the moderator ticket should relate to the donation and follow-up phases, which in fact represent nearly 90 per cent of the amounts of the moderator tickets currently charged to the living donor. Compensation for the costs incurred during the pre-donation phase should be subject to another form of sickness and disability insurance intervention at a later stage. We'll make it little by little, but it's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u7	Thank you, Minister, you have clearly answered the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u8	Madam President, Minister, for several years doctors who say they are specialists in anti-ageing medicine have been recruiting an important patient interested in not aging. I think everyone can be at some point. That said, this has not yet been my case directly. I look at my colleagues around me; neither do they, I think. The vast majority of these are doctors who practice this approach only and have no academic competence in endocrinology or geriatrics. This has been verified by several tests carried out within the academic authorities themselves. These doctors allow themselves diagnostics, which can be described as hassardous, hormonal deficiency (especially hypothyroidism), denying the recommendations of endocrinology societies and relying on unvalidated tests, carried out in particular laboratories or on non-specific and unvalidated clinical scales. These examinations are not reimbursed by social security. The prescriptions make extensive use of hormone therapy and especially growth hormone. These are therefore clearly costly practices for the patient, not validated by recognised and potentially dangerous medical authorities. Minister, is this a public health issue under your responsibility? What is your opinion on the matter? I have referred to medical academies that do not, of course, validate these practices. Shouldn't the academies of medicine of the two linguistic roles and the Conseil Supérieur de la Santé be approached to ask them to investigate these practices, which can almost be described as fraudulent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u9	Madam President, Mr Thiéry, ageing is quite a normal physiological process that all human beings face. Some have difficulty accepting it because of a change in their appearance and a decrease in their physical abilities. In some cases, further study is required in order to exclude a possible pathology. As you have indicated, some practitioners offer hormonal or other treatments for which there is no scientific evidence. I am thinking in particular of injections of extracts from certain animals. This form of "medicine" must be discouraged. It's illegal. In particular, it could affect the health of the patient. Physicians, as well as other providers, have legal and ethical obligations to respect. They are generally well aware of their responsibilities. In particular, therapeutic freedom and the freedom to diagnose are conditioned by the obligation to rely on scientific evidence. Suspicious practices, as well as possible abuses of the weak position of vulnerable persons, can be reported to the competent authorities. Quality and safety of care will be guidelines in the new legislation on the exercise of health care professions that is being prepared. We will be very strict about this: any treatment requires scientific evidence. Otherwise, treatments will not be reimbursed and will be considered part of an illegal circuit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u10	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm not sure I understand. Has the Higher Council of Health ever been asked to investigate these practices? Has this been done?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u11	I got in touch with the medical academy. They're finalizing two studies on something else. They may still be asked. However, they told me that our dynamics in the committee and in all the reforms had resulted in them being very busy. I do not rule out that we can ask them if necessary, but we know their point of view. For them too, the ethics of doctors implies evidence based medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u12	Minister, I would like to point out that an investigation, carried out by the medical academies or by the Higher Council of Health, would be really interesting. Indeed, several publications have appeared, among others from Dr. Cogan, denouncing really fraudulent practices which must be distrusted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u13	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a question on this subject. At present there are 1 441 group practices in Belgium. Compared to five years ago, there is an increase, but with a great preponderance in Flanders. In Wallonia and Brussels, the increase is much less. The group practice, however, appears to be a success formula for general practitioners, especially for younger general practitioners who work better in combination with family life and who join forces to reduce costs and work together under one roof. Often the multidisciplinary character also plays a role in this. Dietists, physiotherapists and psychologists are increasingly involved in such first-line practice. It is therefore not only a way to make the profession more bearable and more attractive, but also to put the multidisciplinary approach into practice and improve it. In October last year, you replied to my question about the district health centres that you like to grow them from below and that the patient always has the choice. You also said that the viability depends on regional factors and that you do not want to comment on the place where such group practices should settle. Since group practices are much more booming in Flanders than in Wallonia, there will be a more multidisciplinary approach in general practitioners' practices in Flanders. How do you feel about that? Would you not like to encourage this multidisciplinary approach throughout Belgium? There is also a risk that the phenomenon will occur more in cities and less in rural areas. Do you think it's necessary to intervene? Are you in favour of a more regional distribution? What line are you on? Do you support the vision of young general practitioners who are in favour of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u14	Mrs Dedry, thank you for your question, but I must point out that starting a group practice is essentially a decision of the general practitioners concerned. In this sense, the increase in the number of group practices is indeed a bottom-up story. In the context of health insurance, these group practices can be registered, so that their composition can be taken into account when granting certain financial benefits from insurance to doctors and patients. A possible regional distribution of group practices essentially means organising primary health care, which has not been a federal competence since the sixth state reform, but a policy domain of the federated entities. Possible measures to make the profession more attractive, such as the Impulseo actions, are for the same reason now the competence of the Communities. I refer to Article 5 (1) of the Special Law of 8 August 1980, as amended by the Special Law of 6 January 2014 on the Sixth State Reform, which clearly states that the organisation of primary health care and the support of the health professions of the first line are to be considered community materials. In addition to the measures on fees and existing measures to support group practices as separate entities, there can therefore no longer be any federal policy at meso or macro level. In your last question, you asked me if I'm on the same page as young general practitioners. Well, I think there is a certain tendency towards workable work for general practitioners. For example, general practitioners also want to combine their practice with family life or other activities. For example, I myself have combined the profession with politics for 13 years. For twelve years I have been a solo doctor and after that I have worked in a group practice for thirteen years, which currently still operates from my home, albeit without my presence. That proves that the combination of everything can be done and I think that is very good. We can encourage that, but it has to be liveable. I have experienced, for example, that two or three general practitioners settled in a small municipality at the same time. In that case, it is almost necessary to fight to obtain a number of consultations in order to be liveable. A practice can also grow. We notice that group practices become practices with three to five members or multidisciplinary work to attract people. I think it is very good that there is a lot of movement on the ground and I leave it to the younger people to set up their own lives. Viewed from the fees, it is encouraging that they are not treated adversely if they operate in a group practice. I am thinking of the GMD. We are doing everything we can to ensure that there are no disadvantages to group practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am well aware that it is difficult because it is a mixed competence and a lot of it has been transferred to the Länder. However, as you yourself point out, there are still some levers, such as the GMD and telematics, which you are in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, the wider debate on sentries will be held later today. After all, I saw that Mrs Fonck has put forward an interplay on this issue. However, I ask this question in response to a message in the Doctor's Newspaper of 19 February, in which it was stated that Liege's GPs asked for the lifting of the obligation for night-time house visits and that they would no longer be required to do watchkeeping. The reason for this is that in three months' time two more cases of aggression against general practitioners took place and that the police would have indicated that they had insufficient manpower to guarantee the safety of doctors. Also in other cities the same voice of doctors sounds, often because of the safety aspect. Of course, I have a great deal of sympathy for this profession, which can be dealt with more often for various reasons. However, it is my concern that this may sometimes be abused in order to remove another obligation, which is no longer as good as it used to be with the doctors. If general practitioners no longer perform watchkeeping, the result is very simple: then everyone walks back to the emergency service. That's the only option people have left when they need care at night. I assume you agree with me that this cannot be the intention. Emergency services are all too often consulted today by people who could actually contact a general practitioner. You are working on several projects, such as the development of watch stations, the better framing of watch stations in cooperation with the emergency services, as well as the project for the introduction of the number 1733. I would, however, like to know how you feel about this specific question from the general practitioners, which you may have also reached. What measures do you see to ensure that general practitioners continue to provide care at night and not simply transfer it to the emergency service? This may be done in cooperation with your colleague, Minister Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u17	Minister, I will focus more on insecurity as such, even if it is true that there may be links to the way in which custody is organized more generally. But we will come back to it later. Several assaults by doctors during their custody have been committed recently. They're not the first. My colleague has just recalled the context, and I am not going to repeat it. It is nevertheless important to recall that the National Council of the Order of Physicians has decided to investigate the assaults: it is currently working in partnership with the members of the Praag (Patrik Roelandt Anti-Agressie Groep) on the drafting of a questionnaire on the incidence of physical, verbal and psychological assaults and is considering the development of recommendations to improve the safety of general practitioners and care providers who carry out home visits to the patient. It affects the doctor, but nurses can also be involved, even if they don't make home visits at night. But they could encounter such a problem in the evening or early morning. You had made a series of statements at the time of the debate on your policy note, among which you insisted on the need to have an integrated vision between the daycare services, the daycare posts of general practitioners, the emergency services, the sorting through the number 1733; with a very "hospitalo-centrist" vision on the organization of the emergencies and the guards. Do you have any figures on the number of assaults by doctors during the guards in recent months and years? It is known that the consequences are nothing but banal on the operation of childcare services. Are you in contact with the group I have just mentioned, but also with the Order of Physicians and, more generally, with general practitioners who have proposals and have put in place different systems of organizing guards that stick to their realities on the ground. If there are issues on which to focus the bottom-up rather than the top-down, it is precisely the organization of the guards and how to increase the safety of doctors. What are the suggestions you can bring about on insecurity? In particular, there was the question of the appeal and alert of doctors in connection with the Minister of the Interior; also requests from circles of general practitioners wishing to have drivers who, by their presence, already increase safety. What is the task force agenda you announced? Do we already have an overview of its findings and recommendations? Thank you, finally, for setting us up a general topo of the situation. Because even if Dr. Roelandt's murder is a tragic example, it is not a new issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Fonck, first of all I appreciate the continued efforts of the general practitioners in the general practitioners' services and their participation in the waiting services in general. This important service to the population is a task of the general practitioners who must continue to exist, even during the night. However, these must be possible for the general practitioners in proper working conditions, including in terms of safety. We do not have any figures on the number of night-time aggressions and their impact on watchkeeping. As you indicated yourself, the Order of Doctors, in collaboration with the VUB, will launch an investigation to determine the extent of the problem. However, I believe that we should deal with the problem of general practitioners' safety as a whole. After all, they are the only ones who visit the house. These visits are not only on watch, because, as you know, aggression can also occur during the day. By the way, the unfortunate incident of Dr. Patrik Roelandt's murder took place in the afternoon, on a normal working day. Besides, it was a well-known patient. During a discussion with my colleague, Minister Jambon, about two months ago, this issue was discussed in detail. It was agreed to set up a working group in which both the general practitioners and staff of the FPS Home Affairs and the FPS Health Department are represented, in order to avoid the need for general practitioners to commute between Home Affairs and Health. My cabinet and the FPS Health Service were also present at the first meeting of this working group. The group that formed after the death of Dr Roelandt, the Patrik Roelandt Anti-Aggression Group, was presented at this meeting. In recent years, important efforts have been made to improve the support of general practitioners on watch. I refer, among other things, to the establishment and financing of GPs and the more global options for the organisation and organisation of GPs. The organisation of non-planable care in general over the different periods of week/weekend or day/night... is currently also discussed in the task force meeting on this subject under the direction of my policy cell. The FPS Public Health, INAMI, the various medical unions, emergency doctors, hospitals, as well as the forums of the associations of general practitioners and Wachtpost Vlaanderen are represented in this task force. My wish is to deploy, in the years to come, an integrated system of care, which cannot be planned in the territory, in which the day-care services, the day-care posts of general practitioners and the emergency services of hospitals will cooperate optimally, on the basis of the single telephone number 1733. As part of this integrated model of non-planable care, the task force's mission is to contribute to the development of a transparent model and financial framework for child care posts. The first step is to establish terms and conditions for an agreement plan between general practitioners' duty stations and emergency services with respect to the organization of care, guidance, communication and service to be provided. A project was actually presented to the Task Force last week. The Commission now has a time limit for its reflection. So it's in the validation phase. At the same time, we are working on the development of a standardized childcare station typology. I think there are two things to consider: security and organisation. Both must be dealt with at the same time in order to solve the problems that have long been known. Even during the day, there may be a problem with people suffering from psychosis or other pathologies. It doesn't just happen at night. In the meantime, the report of the knowledge centre, which, like any report, is valuable, has been published. However, this does not mean that we will blindly follow or implement it. Mrs Fonck, I can answer your question as follows. Mrs. Fonck, you're saying it's kind of a hospital-centric. It is certainly my intention to maintain the general practitioners' watch stations and implement them throughout the country. Especially in Flanders there is still a lot of work to do. The standardization was necessary. There were too many differences in the continuity of care, accessibility and financial resources between the various watch stations, which emerged from the ground up as mushrooms, but, thanks to standardisation, the people know what to do. This will clarify the situation on the ground. The guards must be valuable. One of the merits of our health system is that the general practitioners can be on site very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u19	We will, of course, come back to this more global dimension of guard stations, emergency services, etc., later on in the context of another issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u20	Madam Secretary, we will come back to the global story later. I am glad to hear you say that, although I had no doubt that you would like to continue to put the general practitioner at the centre of your attention. The question of the Liège GPs did bother me a bit. I do not want to deny the problem. To be honest, I am concerned that people want to get off watch so quickly. This does not mean that I do not know or underestimate the dangers facing this profession. I've said it before, my father is a GP and I've experienced it at home enough times that the job can bring such situations. These situations are not always predictable and therefore difficult to control. That is why I think it is a good thing that this aspect has so far been absent, and that it is at last being really done to situate the problem by means of figures, so that we can find out what the order of magnitude is. So far, I think the doctors have reported very few cases. That is typical, because a doctor will not report a patient soon, even though such situations often occur. So it is good that this is mapped out, because that is the way in which the problem can really be addressed. It is also a good thing that you did not wait to set up a working group with representatives of the two Cabinets and the GPs, in order to achieve more concrete results immediately. I agree with you that this will have to be integrated into the overall reform of the guards, emergency services and so on. As I have said, we will talk about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u21	Minister, I am surprised to learn that there are no figures. I think there are some in the Department of the Interior, since general practitioners are among the people most at risk in terms of security and potential attacks. They are, in fact, identified under the heading of people at high risk. Insecurity can happen at any time, of course, but at night is still the time when the risks are highest, because doctors going to the patient's home are very isolated, except for the circles that have set up the system with drivers. It is not a problem to establish a link between security and organisation, but an organisation imposed by the authorities according to a model of standardization, of profile, of the same dynamics to be implemented everywhere would in my opinion be the greatest mistake that can be made. The reality is very different between rural and urban areas. As much as I am in favour of the organization of 1733, I think that 1733 does not mean to bring everything back to the emergency or to the guard stations. I can only plead, Madam Minister, both in terms of security and the organization of the guards, that the circles of general medicine, possibly in collaboration with the hospitals in their region, should be given the opportunity to organize themselves according to their specific characteristics. This is where we will have the most winning assets rather than trying to set up a standardisation that will not stick to reality and bring us nothing positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u22	Mrs Fonck, I don't think you have the same idea of standardization as I do. When we talk about standardization, it means that the means of the guard stations will be standardized. Among the generalists, there will also be a need for continuity. It is superfluous to have a shift from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends, because patients do not know they can go there. Project 1733 is a pilot project that began in Leuven and Tirlemont. Funds have been earmarked. A similar project has also been planned in Wallonia, but it has not yet started. It would be interesting to launch it, however, because it could provide us with all the information we need. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, it is not intended to send everyone to the emergency service, nor to send everyone to the general practitioner. There are, after all, urgent cases with which we have to go straight to a hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u23	Madam President, would you agree to continue this debate when we come to the questions that concern him? Otherwise, we should have included all the questions in order to have a comprehensive debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u24	Yes, but I wanted to give that clarification to avoid any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u25	Colleagues, may I remind you that speaking time for oral questions is limited to a total of five minutes, i.e. for the question, the answer and the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u26	Mrs Muylle is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u27	Madam Secretary, our questions date from the end of February or early March. Probably a little out of date. It concerns the problem of reaching an agreement on a new reimbursement agreement with the logopedists. The logopedists are in favour of raising their pay after twenty years, but the mutualities have a different opinion on this, because accessibility in speech pedists is already a problem for less well-off people. In the meantime, has there been an agreement? I thought so. Can you explain that? I shall leave the other questions aside. I would like to add that not only children go to the logopedist, but also many adults with problems who need a logopedia. Do you plan to include this in your large yard regarding KB No. 78?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u28	Madam President, Minister, the context has just been described, and I am not going to repeat it. Logopedia is often much more than a necessity for all children with learning disabilities. It is a necessary step if we are to be able to achieve positive results. The organization of the logopedia sessions in the school setting allows children to benefit from this care while remaining in an environment that they co-operate daily and without imposing additional obligations on parents in terms of organization and travel. This also allows a contact that can be beneficial to everyone between the logopede and the teacher. I therefore see only positive aspects for both the child and social security. In fact, what is not done early enough in school, it is paid in a second stage, whether it is on the part of the management of these difficulties by the logopedia or whether it is on the part of the less employability for the child who has had a more difficult apprenticeship. Minister, how do you explain this desire to eliminate the reimbursement of school logopedia sessions? What is your vision of the challenges of school logopedia? What are the reasons for this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u29	Madam President, we are indeed a little confused by the long term, but that is not a reproach; let us be clear. There are a lot of questions. My question was tabled a little later than that of my colleague, Mr Dedry. The logopedists and sickness funds have recently concluded a two-year tariff agreement. The fee has risen from 22.05 to 22.70 euros, except for school sessions. If I understand correctly, the money for this is released by reducing the maximum number of sessions. As Mr Dedry has already pointed out, the negotiations between the logopedists and the sickness funds were particularly difficult. The logopedists cancelled the agreement at the end of last year because they did not get enough money to increase their fee to the desired 28 euros per half hour. They wanted to free up this amount by an unfounded reduction in the number of sessions and an increase in the brake fee. The health insurance funds didn't, I think, go along with this. The compromise reached on Monday 7 March is based on a moderate increase in the remuneration, a reduction in the number of sessions in a more acceptable way and the maintenance of the brake fee. The logopedists must clearly inform the patient that any additional sessions are dependent on him and explain their possible added value. That's where I think the shoe's wringing. Or have other things happened in the meantime? My questions are as follows. Isn't there a danger that people will continue to go as often, on the advice of the logopedist, but will have to pay more sessions out of their own pocket? Surely the logopedists' demand of honour should not be at the expense of those who really need care? Can you guarantee this won't happen? On which criteria is the volume limitation based?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, I know what he's going on with my colleagues' questions, but I wanted to ask you how you feel about the fact that, according to the press, mutuals are asking that logopeds no longer perform their duties in schools during school hours. It's a simple question, but it keeps me very close to heart because I'm an old logopede. I experienced this situation and was already revolted at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u31	Mrs. Dedry, Madame Fonck, Mrs. Jiroflée and Madame Caprasse, thank you for your questions. First, I'll give you an update. Indeed, on 27 October 2015, the trade associations of logopedists terminated the 2015-2017 agreement which they had concluded. As soon as the budgetary objective for the sector was known, negotiations on the conclusion of a new agreement were launched, both in the plenary session of the Logopedist Insurance Committee and in the committee's working group. That was very difficult. The meetings took place on 26 November, 3 December, 10 December, 8 February and 15 February. So it was pretty much a procession of Echternach. On 27 January I sent a letter to the Committee on Agreements which contained ideas and possible directions for concluding a new agreement. That letter was therefore communicated to the members of the Agreement Committee on 28 January 2016. In the meantime, I have accepted that, in the framework of the paramedical professions, amounts are reserved for the establishment of the social status for conflicted logopedists, for an amount of EUR 2.6 million, and for the introduction of locked-in syndrome in the logopedia nomenclature, for an amount of EUR 240 000. Several texts of agreement containing proposals for administrative simplification were submitted to the committee. A final text was presented at the meeting on 15 February. This involved an increase in fees of EUR 0.59 per 30-minute session, the granting of the social status, the granting of the locked-in allowance and the reform of the nomenclature of benefits in kind, including parental guidance. That text was rejected, both by the majority of insurance institutions, which did not agree with the proposed increase in fees because they did not want to increase the personal share for patients per session, and by the logopedists, who wanted an increase in fees without reducing the number of sessions per disorder. In view of the fact that there is no agreement since 1 January 2016 and that the negotiations between the logopedists and the insurance institutions had not resulted, Article 49, § 5 of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance was applied. A text of the agreement was submitted to each logopedist by the Insurance Committee on 22 February 2016. This proposal also included the granting of social status and the granting of benefits in kind for locked-in syndrome, but not the increase in fees. That proposal has reached a simple majority, but not a two-thirds majority. So it came later on the table of the Insurance Committee. Meanwhile, the Commission for Agreements between Logopedes and Insurers has continued its work in order to reach a negotiated agreement between the two parties. Finally, on Monday, March 8, 2016, a new agreement was concluded for a period of two years. It ensures that logopedia treatments are accessible to all. The amendments to the nomenclature provide for a review of the maximum number of sessions per disorder, with a view to increasing the quality and effectiveness of treatments. The Convention provides for the reimbursement of parental support in the future, as this will reduce the number of sessions needed to treat the child and improve their effectiveness. In addition, relapses at a later age will also be included in the repayment arrangements. The adjustment of the number of meetings per affection allowed an increase in fees of €0.68 to arrive at a fee of €22.70 per meeting. The patient's personal share has been frozen and it is planned to move to fixed personal shares. This increase does not apply to logopedia in schools. The social status of logopedes has also been retained. In short, this agreement is a good thing for the logopedists and for patients. I have here the figures in response to the questions put by Mr Dedry and Mr Fonck. It may be interesting to give it to the other members of the committee. Ms Fonck, the figures indicate that the majority (87%) of reimbursements are for patients under 15 years of age. This percentage is stable. The percentages after the age of four indicate that treatment is started as soon as the school has been alerted, and this is the most effective. There are also a lot of diseases that will be treated later. We see a peak at 69-74 years due to strokes and other brain disorders. In short, there are two major peaks. In children up to the age of 15 years, and in the elderly. I didn't know what you saw in the press and I don't have time to watch television. I will ask what has been said and in what context. I think we made a good deal. It wasn't easy. I have also made a significant financial effort. It is crucial for the patient that there is a new agreement with the logopeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and for the figures. It is a good thing that there is an agreement. I assume, since the agreement is there, that there will be no more problems for there within Royal Decree No. Seventy-eight more to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u33	Minister, despite the agreement, some actors on the ground remain dissatisfied. It is a question of abolishing the reimbursement of logopedia sessions at school. The fees are frozen. As you said, the peak is huge: 80% of patients are under the age of 15. The challenges in terms of learning and socio-occupational integration are major. If the intervention in this area was eliminated for some children, one of the risks is that they can no longer be followed up. The medium-term consequences would be very serious. I would therefore like to stress the need to maintain the reimbursement of the logopedia sessions at school. This indeed seems important to me for children, who are adults in the process of becoming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u34	It's a good thing there's an agreement, you can't hear me about it. I remain concerned, because the question arises as to what will be the following: will it be reduced further? I do not think I have received an answer to my last question: what criteria is the volume reduction based on? Perhaps that is not quite clear to you, either, and that is what has happened in the negotiations between the logopedists and the sickness funds. I suppose this will still be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u35	Minister, I think we really need to be very careful about what is going to happen. It is obvious that when a child is taken out of class for rehabilitation, it is precisely because it is a child who has difficulties in school. These are really very typical symptoms at school. These children who have been removed from the classroom are given special rehabilitation, which allows them to make up for the difficulties they have already experienced in the classroom. On the other hand, there is a counterpart to this problem. If the logopedes no longer perform this type of rehabilitation during school time, what will they do during that time? In fact, outside school hours, they look after children who have much more typical symptoms such as stuttering, a long delay in language, etc. So, we also have a very strong handicap to the profession. I lived it a long time ago before the logopedia was recognized by mutuals. It was the decision of a minister, Mr. Bertouille - I will remember it all my life - that prevented us from doing our job during school hours. It was intolerable. I'm really drawing your attention, minister, so that it doesn't happen again. You have a lot to do with the mutuals anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u36	I have given more means to activate an agreement between the logopedes and the insurers. I didn't negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u37	I'm not throwing the stone at you. I really draw your attention because I know the logopeds are all behind me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u38	The question is, where exactly is the problem? There seems to be a need for further investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u39	Madam President, Madam Secretary, Hendrik Cammu, gynecologist at the VUB, advocates making the NIPT test more affordable. The NIPT is a screening. After positive results, a flakes test or amniocentesis should be performed. Today, the flake test or amniotic puncture is often done after a positive combination test, which appears to be far less accurate than the NIPT. Professor Cammu states that if everyone were to undergo the NIPT, the costs for the combination test would be eliminated. He even thinks it's absurd that it's still being done. He said there should be fewer amniotic punctures and flakes tests. Madam Secretary, I would like to take a look at your position on this matter. Have you received any other advice in this direction? Have any steps been taken to make the NIPT more affordable and/or to pay back?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u40	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, I will not repeat what has already been said about the NIPT test. There were indeed opinions from the Federal Knowledge Centre and the High Health Council. The Technical Medical Council of the RIZIV was responsible for formulating a budget-neutral proposal for the reimbursement of the NIPT test, in accordance with the opinions given. This proposal for reimbursement was made in 2015 on the basis of the prices and information available to the Board at the time. Since the price of the test was over 800 euros, the Council recommended that the reimbursement be made only to the high risk patients and in case of a positive test in the first trimester. Given that the price of similar tests was falling sharply shortly afterwards, I asked the Technical Medical Council to revise the proposal in the context of that new information, so that that test could be made accessible to all pregnant women. The discussions on this matter are still under way. I hear they're animated. Nevertheless, I hope that a new refund proposal will soon be drawn up, which can then enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, on the weekend of 9 and 10 April, the government communicated a number of savings, including in health care. You said earlier that further savings in health care would not affect patients. We would very much like to believe that, but after that weekend of 9 and 10 April we are convinced that you will put the health insurance without oxygen. Brakes and supplements are rising, accessibility measures are being reduced, chords are finding increasingly difficult and the unmet needs remain unfulfilled. So we are very concerned about the successive savings. That is why a very simple question, Madam Minister, to get a look at the matter. What is the current growth standard in health care as a result of the initial budget and the subsequent round of savings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u43	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, the question was tabled a few weeks ago and given the delay in this committee, I have to adjust it somewhat. My question ended by expressing my concern about what budgetary control was going to do. We now have the elements of it. The question arose from the idea that the INAMI health care department had developed an additional fiscal year, following the sharp and continuous increase in expenditures recorded in the course of 2015. This note is based on the actual figures for the first 9 months of 2015 and then extrapolated to check whether the 2015 and 2016 budget targets are being met. Among the points raised in Budget 2015, we note a possible increase in the reimbursement of dental benefits in recent months as a result of changes you made last year in the reimbursement of dental benefits. The most important problem, however, is the 2016 budget, for which $101.6 million is missing to meet your government's fiscal path. The problem is that the budget for medicines is swelling too fast. Minister, could you please elaborate on the reasons for this unexpected increase in drug spending? A task force bringing together the representatives of doctors and mutual societies was to be set up to find ways and means to release 100 million missing. Has a timetable been established for the work of this working group? What are the tracks that are already on the table to fill this gap? Can you certify that they will not affect patients again? You'll tell me that after deciding to cut health care spending by $3.2 billion between 2015 and 2018, you're not close to $100 million. But I will tell you that patients are extremely attentive to the cost of drugs in their wallets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u44	On the basis of the interim technical estimates of the end of January of the expenditure on medical care for 2015 and 2016, carried out by the RIZIV, it appears that there was a small surplus for 2015. Nothing was said about that. However, in 2016 there would be a deterioration compared to the initial budget of EUR 101.6 million. I therefore decided in mid-February to set up a task force within the General Council under the chairmanship of Mr Jo De Cock, administrator-general of the RIZIV. This task force has the following composition: three representatives of the mutualities, three representatives of the workers' organisations, three representatives of the employers' organisations, three representatives of the care providers, three representatives of the hospitals, and also the policy and control services of the RIZIV, the Presidents of the General Council, the Insurance Committee and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the RIZIV and a representative of my policy cell. If necessary, this task force may also invite external experts. This foundation was announced at the RIZIV Insurance Committee meeting on Monday 22 February and also at the General Council meeting on Monday 29 February. The task force's mission is to formulate before 1 June 2016 a proposal to the General Council with measures to match health care expenditure resulting from the overall budgetary objective with the expenditure authorised, as approved by the General Council, and thus structurally offset the EUR 101.6 million increase with measures. I hope that the proposals of the Task Force will be part of a vision that seeks to preserve quality and accessible health care, paying attention to the following elements: the principles of evidence based medicine and international guidelines, the fight against abuse and fraud, as well as prevention, regulatory and administrative simplification, accountability of all actors, prevention, elimination and the fight against waste and over-consumption. It was also indicated that the Task Force would take into account policies, the multi-annual frameworks and pacts entered into and under negotiation concluded or negotiated with various sectors of health care, and the relative importance of the different sectors in the budget. There should be no compensation for the measures due to volume effects. In addition, account should be taken of the reports of the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Centre for Knowledge and other useful study work. The task force met for the first time on 21 March and has already met five times in plenary sessions and working groups. The proposals of the Task Force will be submitted to the General Council of the RIZIV. This General Council, which is responsible, inter alia, for ensuring the financial balance of medical care insurance, will deliver an opinion to the Government on the basis of the Task Force's report. The task force can formulate proposals in all areas, including medicines and implants. I also asked the task force to take account of policies and the multiannual frameworks and pacts entered into and under negotiation with the various sectors of health care. The growth standard, as laid down in Article 40 of the Medical Care Act, is 1.5 % real. According to the latest estimates, real growth in 2016 is 1,12 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u45	Madam President, I appreciate Mrs De Block's efforts to keep expenditure within reasonable limits, but this does not really seem to work in the government itself. Madam Secretary, you are quoting a growth standard of 1.12%. We have also made our calculations and come to 0,72 %. That is less than half of the original growth standard. I believe in your good intentions, but everything you save in healthcare is included in the overall savings. If you were to meet a number of unmet needs with your savings, we could applaud for that. I am thinking, for example, of paying back the psychological aid. However, nothing will happen to your efforts. It is an ordinary, bald saving, and we very much regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u46	In the same vein and very briefly, I recognize that the minister is trying to defend her sector. That's the impression she gives me. I must congratulate him. We will always support this type of attitude. But the situation is still worrying. We will be very attentive to what the Task Force will propose. As it has taken a little time to put in place, we should have the conclusions for the month of June. As far as the growth standard is concerned, I still remember the 4.5% and 3% under the previous government. Here we reach 1.12%. [[According to our estimates, it would be rather 0.69%, but we're not going to fight for a hundredths of a percent.]] But what is disturbing is that we will have to make choices and we will pay attention to those who will be made because the patients are worried. Already today, some have to choose between eating, buying all of their medications or just a few. Behind the financial and budgetary aspects, i! There are eminently human aspects to which we must remain extremely attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u48	Did I just say that? I said there were unmet needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u50	Madam Secretary, that is not correct. Of course you do things. I began, like Mr Frédéric, by saying that we appreciate your efforts. Only we can't get around the figures, it was 1.5 and now it's 0.72. Then I come to my question about the HCV therapies. 150 million people worldwide live with chronic hepatitis C. Every year 350 000 people die from this disease worldwide. In Belgium, 70 000 people are infected with hepatitis C virus. Depending on the study, the prevalence in Flanders varies from 0.12 % to 0.8 %. New effective HCV therapies have reduced the duration of treatment and increased the risk of healing. In addition, the new therapies have fewer side effects. According to Belgian academics, these new therapies can help to halve the number of cases of severe liver failure and death due to HCV worldwide by 2030. The number of new infections could decrease by a third. In addition to health benefits for the patient, the medicine also has a preventive effect. In Belgium, the new effective HCV medicinal products are only refunded to patients at fibrosis stages 3 or 4. In the Future Pact for the patient with the pharmaceutical industry and also in your policy paper, you commit yourself to developing a structural system for the reimbursement of hepatitis C medicines, extending the reimbursement to patients with a fibrosis stage 2 for whom there is the highest medical need. In the Netherlands, for example, these patients can already have access to particularly effective new therapies. In addition, WHO guidelines and the European Association for the Study of the Liver provide that certain patients and target groups should be given priority in the treatment of HCV regardless of fibrosis stage. These include female HCV patients wishing to become pregnant, haemodialysis patients and HCV/HIV co-infected people. For those co-infected patients, according to the STD surveillance report of the WIV, 3% of HIV-positive patients were also infected with hepatitis C. Ask at various AIDS reference centres that a much smaller percentage of patients with HIV/HCV co-infection in the medical follow-up are eligible for the new medication. In short, this is a very small group of patients. I suspect I already know part of your answer to the questions. By when do you wish to develop a system for the reimbursement of hepatitis C medicinal products to a larger group of HCV patients? How do you define patients for whom there is the highest medical need, referred to in your policy paper? Are you prepared to examine whether priority target groups with HCV and priority patient groups with HCV, regardless of their fibrosis stage, and in accordance with WHO guidelines and other leading institutions, can also benefit from the reimbursement of the latest generation of medications? Are you planning a further extension of the reimbursement of the latest generation of medications in the future, so that the medication becomes accessible to all HCV patients, as is already the case in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u51	Mrs Jiroflée, as you rightly say, this was in the policy paper. We introduced that earlier than was announced. It was said that we would try to do it from July 2015, but in fact the reimbursement of that medication for fibrosis stages 3 and 4 has already started in January 2015. This is one of the issues for which, despite the savings, money has never been allocated in the past. At present, the reimbursement of these medicines is on the table for previous fibrosis stages for which there is the highest medical need. The intention is to have the refund settled by January 2017 at the latest. We have a lot of work to do. It is also intended to examine the definition of patients for whom there is the highest medical need: there is some discussion about this. Discussions on the reimbursement of new therapies are currently on the table and are the subject of an in-depth investigation by the various parties. You know that several new medications for the treatment of hepatitis C are at the end of the pipeline. That will increase our ability to provide patients with a refund. You're saying it's a small number of patients. We were surprised by the reimbursement for stages 3 and 4, estimated at 900 patients per year. Now it turns out to be double that. Some people are probably under the radar, but they all get a refund. I take that into account, because it has created a budgetary surprise. Nevertheless, we have not chosen to limit the number. That would not be correct, but we are careful and we are making the financial estimates sufficiently broad, so that all refunds are included.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u52	Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for your efforts. If it's okay, we'll say it, too, but I'd like to continue to insist on standing up to you in the government. I'm sure you can do that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u53	There should be a shift. If Phase 2 is reimbursed, there will be no Phase 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u54	There are many differences. It also depends on the general state of the people. But it will certainly be a benefit to start treating them earlier. You have to look at the whole balance sheet, also when people still have the ability to stay active, to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u55	There are other expenses and benefits that must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, Test-Achats has filed a complaint with the FPS Economy for misleading nutrition claims. On some products there are images of fruit, for example, whereas in reality the products in question contain very little fruit. A well-known example is Lu's Granycake, which shows how many cereals and fruit they contain, while it is only 2.6 % and it is not a real fruit, but a kind of fructose. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you agree with Test-Achats that the existing rules should be applied more strictly and that minimum rates should be set for certain food categories? You are in the process of consulting with the sugar sector. Does this include the aspect of the fair list of ingredients? Test-Purchasing speaks specifically of seven products, but I mean my question in general. What is your opinion on the minimum rates for certain food categories, for example fruit yogurt and drinks? This year the regulation of nutrition claims in relation to nutrient profiles will be evaluated at European level. A European resolution was adopted on 12 April, later than the submission of this question, which meant that this information was not included in it. As part of the discussions we have already had in committee on food labelling, I continue to ask you what you think of clear food labelling with colours on the front of the packaging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u57	Mrs Dedry, thank you for your question, which is based on a study of Test Purchasing. The minimum percentages of a particular ingredient for a food category or the modification of the ingredients list are the responsibility of the FPS Economy. Test-Purchasing knows that, because it filed a complaint there. My colleague, Minister Peeters, is therefore responsible for this complaint. The Energy Reduction Working Group, to which you refer and which is led by the Public Health Office, talks about a more balanced composition of food products. As far as the European framework is concerned, the evaluation of Regulation No. 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods, more specifically on the absence of European nutritional profiles. Unfortunately, that procedure is still at an early stage. The European Commission has only recently consulted the Member States on the range of questions that will be asked in this context. It is therefore too early to say in what direction the conclusions of the evaluation will go, but it is interesting to follow them. Additional labelling systems for food products may stimulate innovation, but that is not at all certain. We check which labels exist abroad. There are red, green and orange lights and ticks or birds. We need to examine the added value of this. The hearings on the proposals for resolution in the Chamber in October 2015 have also shown the need for further investigation. My administration was also involved. In any case, there must be greater scientific and social support before we introduce systems with lights or ticks. As we do not have a closed market for food products, the products from all countries lie side by side in the shelves, a harmonised European approach would indeed not be bad, although Member States can take individual initiatives. All in all, I find it terribly complicated for the consumer. We need to shop quickly and we need to look at all kinds of things: data, composition, components that may cause peculiar reactions and so on. A person almost has to take a course to do his Saturday shopping. Then it is not just about food products but also about cleaning products and the like. There is so much to pay attention to during shopping, that it is stressful instead of relaxing to get the shopping cart filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u58	We had an interesting discussion, including in the previous committee, with one of your staff. We will continue to do so very soon in terms of content and depth. I note and consider it very important that you have said that European harmonisation would indeed be ideal. However, we do not live in an ideal world. You also say that it is very complicated for the consumer. That is why I strongly urge this committee to take additional initiatives. Based on your answer, you share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u59	Madam Secretary, in your policy paper, you spoke of a high-level board of pharmacists. The policy paper states: "An advisory body consisting of professionals from the field is a necessary tool for any policy. The pharmacists are currently the only health professionals who do not have such a body." I quote: "An organ will also be created that will be competent for the recognition of internship services in a hospital pharmacy as well as a joint technical committee consisting of pharmacists and medical specialists in clinical biology." Promise makes guilt, says an old Flemish proverb. Where are we on the establishment of the promised advisory bodies? What are the future prospects in this respect? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u60	Thank you, Mr Vercammen, for your question. It is indeed the intention, as I mentioned in the discussion of my policy paper, to achieve here during the current parliamentary term a revision and modernisation of the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions, in particular a more modern and integrated functioning for each health profession. That is why we started an exchange of views with pharmacists through meetings to establish a new role for pharmacists in the future. The revision of the structure of the councils also offers the opportunity to create an advisory council for pharmacists. Therefore, the draft revision of the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions is currently being developed. There is, of course, consultation with the sectors concerned, which is rather complex, since discussions should be held with the associations of pharmacies and pharmacists, but also with the representatives of the academic faculties that ensure the teaching of medical preparation. I therefore hope to be able to come forward with a globalised draft law, which should end up here in Parliament's banks in early 2017. We also have a lot to make it completely simple: the pharmacists-clinical biologists. In this context, I would like to say that this year, within the framework of existing legislation on health care professions, we will take useful initiatives to regulate legally the conditions for recognition in this area in accordance with the recent state reform. In this respect, we can move faster, because we remain within the existing legislation. Of course, we will have to negotiate more changes on the other issue. The meetings are progressing constructively. The profession of pharmacist must go along with the times, because there are also societal challenges, such as the ageing of the population, which makes the current role difficult. In fact, the pharmacists themselves are asking parties. At the same time, we also want to solve some of the problems they have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your information. Of course, I respect the discussion on the matter and I am very happy to follow the dossier closely. We will speak again on the subject at the beginning of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u62	Madam President, Minister, the 2016 Health Budget announced the freezing of subsidies for the opening of guard stations. Normally, it was planned that child care post projects returned before the end of 2016 would receive funding to allow for premises, the hiring of a co-ordinator, a staff member in charge of the secretariat and the necessary medical equipment. Madam Minister, you have announced a floor on new criteria for duty stations, but I would like to return today to the pending files filed before 2016. Can you tell me if the files submitted before 2016 will also be subject to the new criteria? If so, will you contact the claimants whose files are pending so that they can adapt to the criteria? If not, what steps must they take to find out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u63	Mrs Cassart, first of all, I have to refer to point 4.1.4.4. of the national medical-mutualist agreement of 22 December 2015, which states as regards new projects: "However, these new projects can only be approved if they meet at least the following four criteria. 1. A plan of agreements between general medical wards, child care and emergency services is submitted regarding the organization of care, removal, communication and provision of services. The terms of this agreement plan will be determined by 31 March 2016 by the above-mentioned task force, taking into account differences in the geographical context. By December 31, 2017, all general medical duty stations will meet this condition. 2. Opening hours: normally at least 61 hours (full weekend from Friday evening to Monday morning). 3. Sufficient territorial and demographic coverage (minimum threshold). 4. Costs in accordance with the new standardization rules to be approved by March 31, 2016. A task force under the direction of my political cell is currently preparing the changes to be made to the system of financing general medical care posts. Apart from the last point in the medico-mutualist agreement, for which it was decided to carry out an external audit before adapting standardization, criteria of the medico-mutualist agreement may be applied in the files submitted. Within the Task Force, it was agreed that three types of cases could be advanced: that of guard stations on the campus of a hospital, that of off-campus guard stations that meet the criteria of the medical-mutualist agreement, and that of records that make the existing guard stations more effective. INAMI services continue to analyse the funding applications they receive and prepare them for the various phases of the decision-making process. In fact, there are again requests, either to expand the territory of existing guard stations or for new guard stations according to the criteria. In this way we will move towards standardization. We have seen large differences between the various guard stations. This is normal because at first they were pilot projects. They developed in the absence of criteria and standardization. We found that this could pose problems for continuity of care and funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u64	Minister, I understand that there is a need for standardization; I also understand that there were pilot projects at the beginning and that the objective is that continuity and sustainability. I don't have a problem with the bottom. I will take a closer look at your answer. I just want to draw your attention to something a little unknown on the ground: these are population criteria. I live in a very rural area. My municipality has less than 3,000 inhabitants. When we have to organize these medical stations, we may have difficulties with these population criteria. I'll analyze the numbers. If specific problems arise, I will come back to you with questions to find solutions for the population criteria in rural areas. Road kilometres must be taken into account; posts must remain accessible to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u65	I think you gave the end of April the deadline for the task force's work. An exchange of these conclusions could therefore be planned in May in order to avoid the introduction of new questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u66	In the policy statement by your colleague Maxime Prévot, Walloon Minister for Health in particular, it is stated that family planning centres are one of the key players in health prevention and promotion policy. In this regard, and still according to Mr Prévot's policy statement, 2016 will be used to reflect with the federal government on the lack of a formal framework for the delivery of contraceptive or abortive means. Minister, would you please let me know your position on this matter? What is the status of collaboration with the Regions? Have any meetings ever taken place? Is a formal framework for the delivery of contraceptives envisaged? If so, when can we hope?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u67	It goes without saying that the contraceptive means and the next-day pills available must be most accessible to women. This accessibility cannot jeopardize the quality of care and therefore the health of young women and girls. For example, contraceptives and the following day's pills can only be distributed by providers with adequate pharmacological training. In addition, it is always appropriate to deliver contraceptives only on prescription. We are studying the role of the midwife in this area. We asked for different opinions. The Federal Council of Midwives, as well as the Royal Academies of Belgium, gave an opinion on this subject. The opinion of the Higher Council of Specialist and General Practitioners is expected in the coming weeks. However, we remain at our disposal for any consultation, but have so far not received an invitation to do so. There has therefore been no consultation on this issue to date. In response to your last question, I would like to refer you to the proposal for a law on 'Pass contraception' introduced by Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Dedry. I would also remind you that prevention and promotion are the responsibility of the Communities and Regions. I agree with Mr Prévot and at a future meeting I will ask him what he wants in this area. For for the moment, his wish is not concrete. It would be interesting to observe the role of the midwife in this issue. Midwives are well aware not only of deliveries, but also of how to avoid them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u68	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. Access to care and the quality of care are obviously goals that we share. Studying the role of the midwife is a very good idea. When we have more elements in relation to this, we can come back to the subject. Having been a Member of Parliament for more than ten years in the Region, I know very well that the competences you have just said in terms of prevention. If, at any time, the Minister submits this through his policy brief, the actions should follow and he should be able to consult with you. If he has not yet done so, I count on you, at a meeting with the Regions or the French Community, to look at this and to have a collaboration. Prevention in this area is obviously super important. No one will deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u69	Madam Minister, this question also dates back to a time ago. In the middle of February there was disagreement in the press between a number of food gurus about whether or not iodine was added to bread. Apart from the fact that we experience such disputes more often, it is true that a lot of people lack iodine. At present, the average iodine intake of an adult is barely half of what is recommended. Especially for pregnant women and babies, this can lead to problems. It is recommended to eat much more fish, but its feasibility is certainly limited for vulnerable disadvantaged families, as fish is one of the more expensive products in the diet. In 2009, the government concluded an agreement with the bakery sector on the addition of iodine to bread. However, in 2012, a Belgian study showed that despite this measure, the problem was not yet resolved. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. Do you think there's still an iodine deficiency? If so, how much is the deficit? Is it bigger at the moment than in 2012? Is there any record of that? Has the agreement with the bakery sector been renewed since 2009? Or is it still running? What impact has this agreement had on people's health since 2012? Is there a difference to be observed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u70	Let us ignore the bickering in the press. More importantly, the High Health Council published a publication in June 2014 assessing the strategies to increase iodine intake in Belgium. Some recommendations were also made. The High Health Council notes that the iodine status of the Belgian population has improved, in particular that of children and young people in school. The Supreme Health Council is based on a study in school children between 8 and 12 years of age. The biological indicators were considered sufficient for this population. For this improvement, the High Health Council explicitly points to initiatives such as the agreement with the bakery sector. However, in pregnant and breast-feeding women, iodine intake is still suboptimal. This is reflected in a study on the iodine status of pregnant women in our country, published in 2013 in the British Journal of Nutrition. Authors conclude that it is necessary to make more systematic use of food supplements that provide a special intake of 150 micrograms of iodine. However, sensitisation of the general public and health professionals on balanced diets and the possible use of food supplements is the responsibility of the Länder. The agreement with the industrial and craft bakery sector of 2009 is still valid today and has produced good results. It's a voluntary agreement. In the first part of his most recent nutrition recommendations, which appeared at the end of last year, the Supreme Health Council indicates that it is too early to change this covenant. More regular monitoring of the results is desirable. The intention is therefore to look with my colleagues in the state governments at how we could organise this. Finally, my services are making further efforts to sensitise the craft bakeries so that the percentage of bakers that use joded salt increases. Of course, eating fish is also a way to get a lot of iodine in, but we know that not everyone has the opportunity to put fish on the table two or three times a week. Bread is and remains a very important source of iodine, but I do think that we need to take more measurements there and we need to consult the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u71	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. As I said myself, it is not normal for a lot of people in our society not to be able to eat enough fish, so there may still be work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 1 March the High Health Council presented a study to show that our country is not prepared at all for a nuclear disaster, Fukushima genre. In the event of a nuclear disaster in Doel, more than 1 million people would be affected. The impact on public health would also be devastating. In addition to the direct impact, with many deaths and injuries, the short- and medium-term consequences are also inconceivable. Hundreds of thousands of people will be exposed to carcinogenic radiation, and others will suffer from stress, depression and suicides. With the opening of Objective 1 and Objective 2 nuclear reactors, it is therefore essential and urgent to adapt the nuclear contingency plans. After the FANC a few weeks ago, the Supreme Health Council has now made a series of recommendations in a report. Among other things, the Council calls for an extension of the evacuation zones to 20 km around a nuclear power plant. For the distribution of iodine tablets, the High Health Council, like the FANC, recommends a zone of 100 km around the nuclear power stations. This, of course, has financial implications. We believe that Electrabel should bear these additional costs. My questions are as follows. Have you discussed this with your colleague, Minister Jambon? If so, what are the results of this consultation? Will you comment on the recommendation of the High Health Council to spread more widely? If so, how do you see this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u73	Madam President, Minister, I agree with my colleague, Mr Jiroflée, with almost identical questions. So I must not repeat everything. There were indeed warnings from the High Health Council that we would not be prepared for a nuclear disaster at all. The FANC also issued similar warnings. This is an important fact. Mr Jiroflée mentioned the evacuation plans, the evacuation zones and the iodine pills. So I'm skipping this part of my questions. I come to the following questions. The High Health Council recommends a number of concrete measures. Have you already consulted with your colleague, Minister Jambon? If so, when will these measures be taken? When will the government take action to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u74	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, in order to further develop the opinions of the various councils, the Security and Home Affairs Cabinets decided, in consultation with my cabinet, to set up an interdepartmental Working Group on Home Affairs/Health. There was also a bilateral consultation with Minister Jambon, responsible for Security and Home Affairs. In the context of the updating of the nuclear emergency plan, the definition of the future predistribution strategy as well as the reactive distribution in the event of an incident of potassium iodide tablets is indeed one of the concerns. In accordance with the advice of the Supreme Health Council, the pre-distribution will also be extended to 100 km, in this case the whole country. If, at the centre of every nuclear power plant in our country or in neighbouring countries, we draw a circle of 100 km, then there is not a single square centimeter on our territory that is not covered. It still makes it easy that it's all over the country. Priority should also be given to the most vulnerable target groups, namely children, adolescents, pregnant women and breast-feeding women. In the meantime, this model for reactive distribution in the acute phase of a disaster is being discussed with the experts, because you know that there is little time between determining a disaster and the time when iodine tablets are to be taken. A study will be launched for this purpose. There will also be an implementation exercise to proactively detect and remedy a number of bottlenecks. That's about the availability, the distribution channels, the storage facilities, the military barracks right now. The aim is to fully implement this updated pre-distribution and reactive distribution strategy by 2017 at the latest and to include a new information campaign. In addition, several working groups are looking at the methods of reception and disinfection of the population in the event of a possible nuclear incident. Consideration is also being given to the mobility problems that could arise in the evacuation of part of our territory. That is, of course, another problem, especially when it comes to the evacuation of a densely populated area. Such a measure is very complex and, in addition to the presence of operational plans at the level of each establishment, requires general coordination and consideration of the possible consequences of such initiatives. So it's a really big job for this government. You know that the criteria are based on the consequences of the Fukushima earthquake, knowing that we are not on a plateau where such great earthquakes will happen. The extension from 10 km to 100 km alone has important consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u75	Madam Minister, I am particularly pleased to hear that this is being done. I remember that the whole plan will be ready by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u76	Madam Secretary, I have one more question about one detail. You're saying a major study is under way. Does that happen within your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u77	That's what happens with my colleague. We are both competent and therefore a joint working group was set up. There is no point in carrying out two studies side by side. We work closely together on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u78	Minister Jambon had announced in the Committee on the Interior that by June 2016, there would be a new plan. So this new plan will be presented at the end of 2017 and not in June 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u79	No, that's not what I said. The plan is one thing, but one must also look at its implementation; it is also about mobility and other issues. We're really working on it, but there's an incredible amount involved. The plan is one thing, but its implementation, the consultation on contingency plans with the various entities and the mobility problems still need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u80	It will therefore be more the implementation or exercises that will be done in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u81	Madam President, Minister, on 29 February the European Commission published the text presented as the final version of CETA, the economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union. If the agreement is less known than that of TTIP, it appears that it is nonetheless dangerous. According to Professor Ferdi De Ville, I quote, "since CETA represents both a small front door and a precedent for the TTIP negotiations, the European Parliament risks losing credibility when it wants to impose its red lines in the next agreement. This will weaken the position of European negotiators for TTIP." Indeed, some believe that this treaty leads to a "commercialization" of health care, since the principles of the free market are applied to them in a neoliberal logic aimed at maximising profits. The fear that the door to the "service of general interest" which, in Belgium, is provided in particular by non-profit associations, including mutualities and non-marketers, may be opened to commercial enterprises is always present. This obviously raises the question because health is neither a product nor a commodity, but a right to which every citizen must have access. Furthermore, the examples show and demonstrate that such liberalization in the health sector results in increased costs and reduced efficiency. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have been able to read the 1,634 pages of the CETA agreement and more specifically the aspects that affect the health sector. What analysis do you get from it? Is it likely to undermine our social and mutualistic model? Do you share the concerns of the associations, particularly when they say that this treaty, I quote, "risk of crippling democracy by blocking necessary progress in health protection"? If not, what can you answer to reassure them? Finally, Minister, has a study been conducted on the impact of this treaty on our health care system? If so, can you provide us with the results? If not, is such a study envisaged? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u82	Madam President, dear colleague, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment has closely followed the negotiations on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the European Union and Canada and, more specifically, how it could have an impact on public health or health care. Guarantees for public services such as health services that incorporate the EU standard into their trade treaties provide adequate protection to ensure the high level of protection of our health model. With this in mind, the CETA agreement goes no further than the commitments made by the European Union under the General Agreement on Trade in Services. The CETA agreement will not require EU Member States to deregulate or privatize their health services. The Agreement explicitly recognises the competences of the Member States of the European Union to maintain measures at the level of public health and to adopt new legislation in the future. First, as in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, services provided in the exercise of government authority are excluded from the scope of the CETA Agreement. Furthermore, the European Union stresses, as in previous trade treaties, its commitment to the protection of public services at all levels of power, including local level by providing for a lodge, a horizontal exception. The authorities themselves determine which activities fall under the "public services" denominator. Following the conclusion of a trade agreement, local, regional and national authorities can continue to manage services in the way they want and want in the future. Furthermore, the European Union excludes from its commitments all health services which receive public funding or any form of state support by adopting an additional exception. In practical terms, this means that CETA could not oblige Member States to open their market for health care services to foreign service providers, including in the future. On the basis of this analysis, it can be concluded that the CETA agreement will not endanger the health system or the Belgian and European social model. You will see that the CETA Agreement is the first trade agreement that both in its preamble and in the body of its text recognizes the right of States to pursue political objectives as well as at the level of public health. Canada cannot, for example, export products to the European Union that would not comply with European standards. The FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment has closely followed the negotiations on the CETA agreement and also intervenes when it fears that public health or health care may be at risk. However, an impact assessment is not envisaged. In the light of the above, this does not seem to be a priority. I'll tell you what I've been told. I did not myself read the 1,600 pages of the CETA agreement. I don't think you read it either. I asked for the opinion of the Public Health FPS, which obviously followed this agreement very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u83	I take note of the Minister's response. This is almost a declaration since it highlights this CETA agreement. She reassures us that there will be no influence or privatization of health care, that the proper protection of our health model will be respected. Allow me to analyse this answer and compare it to the chapters or paragraphs of CETA that concern health care and, if necessary, I will come back to you. I thank you, in any case, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u84	Madam Secretary, you will not be surprised that this is a piece of work for me and that I am asking questions about this. I've been yelling out that pregnancy isn't a disease for so long. Many studies show that we need to demedicalise our pregnancy guidance, not only from the World Health Organisation, but also from the Independent Hospitals, who have recently put their finger on the wound. There are far too many studies in pregnant women, but I doubt whether that is a habit, as a press release suggests. Too many ultrasounds are taken: as many as one in two women get five ultrasounds, while the KCE only sees two as really necessary. The Inter-Mutualist Agency also has doubts about this and states that it does not have sufficient evidence to put a routine chography on 24 weeks, i.e. the third one, in between. Furthermore, there are far too many ordinary childbirths in university hospitals, resulting in a paid bill for our health insurance. They cost 20% more. There are also far too many C-sections and that number continues to increase. In the meantime, this is already 22% of childbirth and is even higher in the case of thirty-five years old or older. So that's three times too much. I have the following questions. Do you share my analysis and do you also think that for low-risk pregnancies, the number of consultations and investigations should be treated much more wisely, not only in order to reduce this overmedicalisation as a harmful phenomenon, but also in order to control the budget? If so, what specific measures will you take? Can pilot projects give birth with abbreviated hospital accommodation be a lever to tackle this by, among other things, examining prenatal care paths? Do you have a solution for the improper C-sections? How do you intend to handle it? Finally, what are your options for shifting non-risk childbirths to non-university hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u85	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to share some observations with you regarding the number of medical examinations performed during pregnancy. Free mutualities estimated the average cost of a pregnancy at approximately EUR 5,000 for INAMI. According to the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE), too many unnecessary examinations would be carried out during pregnancy. For example, as Mrs Dedry said, for the KCE, only two ultrasounds would be really necessary. However, it turns out that, according to the KCE, on average, one in two pregnant women passes up to five ultrasounds. Another striking example is that for low-risk pregnancies, KCE recommends 10 prenatal visits for pregnant women of the first child and 7 for the following. However, the average is 10.8 gynaecological consultations. Minister, have you been aware of these figures, of these studies? What conclusions do they bring you to? Will this result in measures being taken accordingly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u86	Mrs. Dedry, I have always been taught that pregnancy is not a sign of illness, but rather of good health. Nevertheless, we must take care of the unborn baby and the mother in an appropriate way, but we must not exaggerate, because the pendulum may have gone too far. Following the KCE study, a proposal for a revision of the nomenclature for ultrasound in pregnancy is under consideration. Gynaecologists also believe that, for proper monitoring of pregnancy, it is no longer adapted to the needs. One of the requirements of the pilot project is for short-term hospital deliveries and attempts to cover a period of care starting during the prenatal period. Most of the seven projects selected have planned to cover care starting in the twenty-eighth week of pregnancy, or even earlier according to other projects. The activity and financial data that will emerge from the project evaluation should therefore provide an accurate picture of antenatal care. These projects cover about fifteen thousand births per year. It's still significant. Indeed, there is also a steady growth in the number of C-sections in Belgium, currently almost 20%, while the World Health Organisation has recently recommended that 15% should not be exceeded. However, that percentage is below the figures established in other countries, as the latest performance report of the KCE in 2015 showed. One of the recommendations in that report is to pay attention to the evolution of the percentage, especially as an inexplicable variability has been demonstrated between different hospitals. The purpose of a C-section is to save the life of the mother and the newborn. However, there must of course be a medical indication for this technique, otherwise one must opt for a natural delivery. The WHO questioned the target of 15% C-sections in April 2015, as it could not gain a better understanding of C-sections for justified reasons. It therefore recommended that the percentage of C-sections be evaluated in the future on the basis of the risk derivatives, according to the Robson classification. This is currently impossible under the current registration system, regardless of whether the RIZIV nomenclature or the minimum clinical data, ICD-9 or ICD-10, are used. The registration will therefore have to be changed. To monitor the C-sections as closely as possible based on the risk, I have asked my services to investigate the possible solutions. In addition, the 2016-17 national medico-mutualist agreement provides, within the framework of effective care, certain measures to achieve concrete health objectives, including the reduction of the number of Caesarean sectiones. To this end, point 4.2.4 of the Agreement provides for two measures. [[The minister's phone rings]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u87	On the one hand, it provides for the introduction of an emergency supplement to the fees for natural births and, on the other hand, it provides for cooperation with the occupational group concerned in order to study how variations in the number of caesarean sections in the totality of births and calculated per hospital can be brought into line with existing scientific recommendations. Mrs. Dedry, you say that too many normal births are still taking place in university hospitals, which costs more to RIZIV. I can answer that it is not true that normal childbirths in university hospitals would receive higher compensation through the Budget of Financial Resources (BFM) than general hospitals. For all births, both vaginal delivery and caesarean delivery, a national average duration of residence is calculated by patient severity. Through the BFM, all hospitals are financed without distinction, whether university or general hospital, for the same duration of stay, depending solely on pathology and severity. Hospitals that treat more complicated childbirths, e.g. patients with grade 3 or 4, are therefore given a higher budget, but that is regardless of their general or university character. Moreover, the average amount paid per day of nursing is the same for all patients who are hospitalised in a university rather than in a general hospital, not because a childbirth as such is better paid in a university hospital, but because more patients are treated there with a higher degree of severity. In a university hospital there are relatively more intensive hospitalizations and conditions, so the average duration of stay is longer. A university hospital also offers relatively more highly specialised care programs and services, for example more PET scans and more radiotherapy. It also has to do with the presence of fertility centres and treatments. On some services, not on the materiality, a university hospital must also meet a higher standard than general hospitals. I also mention the premature departments. We are trying to transport women who are in danger of giving birth very prematurely to a hospital specializing in it. The funding through the BFM therefore does not provide a valid reason to shift childbirths from university to general hospitals. I would also like to point out that we are opting to give every woman the freedom to choose the hospital she wants to give birth to. After all, it is also a matter of trust, it has to do with feeling good and so on. The free choice of caregivers is therefore primordial. There is no problem in that regard. However, there are problems with the number of consultations, the number of echoes, the pretechos and also the caesarean section.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u88	Madam President, Madam Minister, perhaps I have said it carelessly. I mean, indeed, as you also say, the additional costs arising from an infrastructure that has a higher day-care rate and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u89	Minister, I received more answers than I had any questions. I'll read them again with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u90	However, do you still have any questions about reducing the length of maternity leave after delivery?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u91	Madam President, my next question could indeed have been joined. If you don't mind, I'll put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u92	Unfortunately, it is not we who decide whether or not to join the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u93	Madam President, Madam Minister, with an average current duration estimated at four and a half days, Belgium is in the leading group of the longest hospital stays for a normal delivery. Knowing that a full day spent less would save up to €18 million a year, the purpose of the government is to reduce, according to the information I have received, this period to three and a half days in 2016. To do this, your services are planning the next implementation of a life-size phase of reduced postnatal stay, by selecting seven hospitals (three in Flanders, two in Wallonia and two in Brussels) that will evaluate the measure for a period of two years. The success of this initiative will depend, among other things, on the effective collaboration of many other birth writers, including midwives, home nurses, home nurses, paediatricians and physiotherapists. My questions are twofold: can you inform me of the date on which your services hope to be able to launch, in the seven hospitals selected, this life-size phase of reduced postnatal stay? Do you plan in parallel the implementation of additional measures to ensure the collective participation of the various actors of the birth to this project? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u94	Madam President, as I said, the seven pilot projects are in the start-up phase. They were invited to finalize their project agreement by which they set out the rules for the operation of the project between partners, the responsibilities of each and each, the management arrangements, etc. These agreements must be forwarded to the Public Health FPS, which, for its part, drafts the contracts organising the financing of the project initiation agreement. With regard to the accompanying measures for projects, it is planned to follow up by means of a self-evaluation giving rise to an annual report on the basis of previously defined process and outcome indicators, as well as an evaluation by the administration. This evaluation will focus on financial elements of the project, including gains and deficiencies, but also on the value added in qualitative terms and in terms of patient satisfaction. The analysis of the data will also help to identify the real involvement of the different actors via the billing data but also via the individual report of each project. It's still complicated, but it's normal. It is important that there are elements that can be measured before implementing a project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u95	Madam Chair, could you please take stock of the issues deferred?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u96	The following questions were deferred:- Question No 10037 by Mr Thiéry; - Question No 10056 by Mrs Hufkens; - questions Nos 10063 by Mr Senesael, 10103 by Mrs Fonck and 11024 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux; - the attached questions and inquiry Nos 10072 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, 132 by Mrs Fonck and 10180 by Mrs Van Peel; - Question No 10105 by Mrs Fonck. Question No 10123 by Mrs Dedry must be referred to another minister. Question No 10126 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question, together with questions No 10190 by Mrs Muylle, No 10268 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, No 10344 by Mrs Fonck. In view of the time, I believe that we could go to item 37 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u97	Minister, this is a short question because, in June 2015, I was asking a written question to get the distribution of active general practitioners by commune. I asked you about the number of general practitioners with more than 500 benefits per year, their gender distribution, and their distribution according to age groups, and what that corresponded to in full time. I would end my question by asking you for the distribution of isolated practitioners, on the one hand, and those who practice in medical homes, on the other. To date, I have not received answers to these questions. We are almost a year later. Minister, when do you intend to give me an answer? And what are the obstacles that delayed or prevented your response? Frankly, it is the cross and banner to have access to this information, even when we question the actors who are on the ground. I am not asking you to give the number of doctors here, but to tell me what has not yet been answered to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u98	Sometimes it is easier to ask questions than to give answers; it is the case for this question. The dynamic cadastre of doctors, the CAD Plan 2004-2012, leaves a photograph of medical activity by crossing several databases, i.e. those of the Cadastre of the SPF, the INAMI and the Datawarehouse Labour Market and Social Protection. To ensure the anonymity of these data, only the district of the doctor's domicile is present in the coupled data, so the municipality of the domicile does not appear. This responds to the constraints of the Privacy Commission. You will find the data requested in the report on general practitioners, available on the website of the Federal Public Service of Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, which I will provide you with the link. Data on medical homes are not available on this website but are available from INAMI. As these data are not available in the INAMI database that was used for coupling to produce the dynamic cadastre, they could not be integrated into the published report. It is therefore not easy, especially because of the views of the Privacy Commission. Nevertheless, here I have the details of the information so that you can collect the pieces of the puzzle yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u99	You should realize that, therefore, it is quite impossible to tell us that there are too many doctors here, not enough there. I asked the same question in 2006. It took several months to get an answer, but I had it and it was detailed by commune. We had limited ourselves to more than 500 benefits. In doing so, the Privacy Commission's requirements were met, as my first formulation contained references to a different number of benefits. If there were only two doctors, identification would have been possible. But when you call the doctors' circle to find out about the doctors' population in the commune, get information about their age, their renewal, the problems encountered, you get no answer in this regard. There is a way to go against it, to go beyond this requirement of the Privacy Commission, given the places of delivery, the places of residence, elements on which there is always a way to play. I cannot accept this answer, nor can it be that the Privacy Commission prohibits a common set-up by commune and that we cannot, in a dynamic cadastre, introduce the data of practitioners who work together in a medical home and the practitioners who work in isolation, because it amounts to a different response. We saw him again last week in the Health Board. Mr. Piedboeuf said about his commune, Tintigny, that the solution for general practitioners to agree to work in these areas was to create a medical home if not young doctors do not move. These are important data to properly organize and identify needs according to appropriate geographical distribution. We need to ask again about this privacy argument, because I'm not sure it's correct. In 2006, I repeat, the data were, in spite of everything, transmitted to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u100	I understand your frustration, but I respect everyone as well as your request. It would, of course, be useful to have all the relevant data available. Personally, I must respect all the relevant commissions, including the one on privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u101	Minister, I did not receive an answer to my written question. You justify this by explaining that the Privacy Commission does not allow for an answer. Between June 10, 2015 and today, I could have been informed. I would like to see this opinion from the Commission, which prevents us from giving that answer. In 2006, I received an answer after rewording my question to preserve anonymity. I would therefore have an additional request to you on this point, but I can write it down if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u102	Question No 9929 by Mr Vanvelthoven is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u103	Madam President, Minister, my colleague Jean-Marc Delizée and I have already had the opportunity to ask you about this. The legal steps to be taken in the context of the repatriation of a French citizen who has died in Belgium are sometimes absurd. A recent article in the newspaper L'Avenir has demonstrated this again recently. Negotiations would be under way between the Belgian and French authorities in order to consider solving this problem. In response to Mr. Delizée's question, you confirmed that bilateral discussions were under way and that adjustments to that legislation were on the agenda. On the other hand, you did not specify the time frame within which these agreements would be implemented. Minister, can you tell me at what stage the negotiations are at? When can we hope to see a simplification of the requirements inherent in the repatriation of the deceased? These formalities are particularly difficult for persons residing in border regions. I would add that in the light of the agreements with the French communes, in particular with the hospital of Dinant, this problem is becoming more and more common. On the other hand, I personally experienced an opposite situation. A Belgian was to be repatriated to Belgium. Again, the situation is very difficult for families. Although this problem should not be the most important in your skills, it remains that the formalities are difficult for the families affected by such an event.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u104	Madam President, Madam Minister, I come back to a question raised on 15 December 2015 on the procedure for the repatriation of bodies between Belgium and France and the Strasbourg Agreement of 26 October 1973. This procedure has become obsolete and is very cumbersome and costly. In the past, some provisions were made for health reasons, but with today's techniques, this is no longer justified, with the exception of cases of people who have died of a contagious disease for which the legislation is stricter. For the vast majority of deaths, the current system is completely obsolete. This issue affects families as well as funeral societies. We are trying to build Europe. But Europe does not understand that we have Kafkaian legislation, which makes situations difficult, especially in the painful funeral setting, an already very emotional context for families. In your December reply, you confirmed to me the willingness on both sides of the border to put in place a solution. You informed me that bilateral discussions were under way and that initiatives were being taken to that end. You also told me that the Higher Council of Health recommended that we review our Royal Decree of the Regent in order to make it as compliant as possible with French legislation. Unfortunately, you have not given me any deadline. I believe that we will return regularly to the subject, hoping that it will move forward. We really have to try to get this case through. You probably have other concerns, other files. But could your services move forward in these negotiations? Minister, what is the status of the negotiations? Such an agreement has been concluded with the Netherlands. Without knowing in detail the content, it can be said that if an agreement is reached with the Netherlands, it must be possible to conclude a similar one with France, with perhaps some differences, I do not know. Can the agreement with the Netherlands serve as a basis for an agreement with France? What is the timetable for the follow-up of this dossier for a bilateral agreement with France? What, if any, would be the main principles of this agreement? Finally, you concluded your reply of 15 December as follows: "It is possible that Belgium will initiate a pioneering approach which could lead to formal harmonisation." I ask you, then, whether you have a pioneering approach to solving the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u105	Mr. Clarinval, Mr. Delizée, as I said, negotiations have been initiated with our French counterparts, as well as at the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference in international subgroups. This is not just a federal matter. As regards the state of play of the negotiations, no consensus has yet been reached. The point of discussion is the definition of the cross-border zone: our vision is that this area is delimited while the French vision advocates the opposite, which would include the entire French territory. You will understand that in view of health security and public health, the repatriation of a body from Bièvre to Les Hautes-Rivières does not amount to a repatriation to Guadeloupe. We therefore continue to negotiate on both fronts and hope to find solutions quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u106	Some answers are harder than some questions, Mr. Clarinval! I understand your frustration!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u107	I understand you, Madam President! I want to say two things. The first is that in tax matters, France and Belgium had no problems in agreeing on the border area. It may be sufficient to layer the solution in the area of taxation in the area of health. It's a lead to dig to avoid long debates. Secondly, I can understand that the displacement of a mortal remains between two border areas, sometimes five kilometres apart, does not represent the same stakes as the repatriation of a vacationer from Guadeloupe. The French islands apart, many Belgians also reside on the French Riviera. I do not see how the fact that a Belgian dies in Marseilles or that a Frenchman dies in Liège can be a problem. We can indeed take into account the islands and the DOM-TOMs and erect them in particular cases, but I would be prepared to consider whether metropolitan France, or continental France, should be taken over in the area as a whole. If we want to restrict ourselves to a border area, let's take the definition of finance and we may be able to move forward. Behind this question, there are families in mourning and in really ridiculous situations. Moving forward on this file would be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u108	Minister, I have received an answer. I am not going to say that I am satisfied with its content. You add to your previous answer an element: this cross-border area question. As far as mainland France is concerned, I do not see any distinction to make if the deceased is repatriated to Charleville-Mézières or Marseilles. I don't see the problem for mainland France. It is excessive to mention Guadeloupe or New Caledonia or I do not know which island very far away in an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u109	We're talking about "the entire French territory." This is also true of Guadeloupe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u110	Does the agreement with the Netherlands concern the entire territory of the Netherlands? They also have distant territories. Have they demanded that they be taken into account? For the citizen, it's Kafka. In case of cremation, the body must return. We need two funerariums. It's complicated. I can only insist that you work with your department, but also with the Interior and Foreign Affairs. Your colleagues are also concerned. This is the case for the entire government. We should try to find concrete solutions for our citizens, be they Belgian, Dutch, French or others. At the end of this answer I am not really reassured about the more or less rapid outcome of the file. I wonder if the will exists and I am surprised. It seems that on the French side there is a desire to find a solution. I can only invite you to take this case with your colleagues. Otherwise, we will come back to ask that question. Citizens will still be living in very difficult situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u111	Dossier to follow, then!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u112	Madam President, Minister, since the start of the crisis in 2008, the budget allocated to the national health system has been cut by 50% in view of the requirements of the international financial institutions for the Greek health system. Today, two and a half million citizens no longer have access to health care in Greece. 25% of Greeks no longer have health coverage. Hospitals are exsangued and surgical operations are very often suspended. There was an increase in infant mortality of 51 per cent, a decrease in several immunization coverages, and an increase in hospitalizations in public hospitals of 37 per cent. On the other hand, an increasing number of Greek doctors, particularly specialists, are leaving their posts in order to be able to perform duties abroad, and more than 8,000 qualified nurses are currently unemployed. These are inconceivable findings that demonstrate the tragedy that is taking place within a country of the European Union. This situation has, of course, only worsened as a result of the refugee crisis that the country has been experiencing for several months now. However, the bodies of the European Union do not seem to want to become aware of the situation and no aid measures are proposed to date to help them. This is obviously unacceptable for my group, which is constantly reminding us of the importance of being able to maintain a strong social security system that will enable everyone, regardless of their income, to have access to health care and social protection. The NGO Médecins du monde, the Erasmus University Hospital, associated with the Free University of Brussels, and the CHU Saint-Pierre in Brussels launched a campaign a few weeks ago called "Emergency Greece: Stop medical Grexit" in order to raise awareness among the Belgian population of the current health crisis in Greece. The campaign also aims to raise funds to finance concrete projects on the ground. Three projects have already been launched, such as the creation of a new polyclinic or the establishment of a medical solidarity chain for a medical bus with mobile equipment for ultrasound, biology, spirometry, etc. A petition to request the freezing of the health care budget in Greece was also launched in order to put pressure on the European authorities. Minister, have discussions on the dramatic health situation in Greece already taken place in the EPSCO Council? If this is not the case, do you intend to ask for inclusion on the agenda of this essential item? If so, what attitude will you take and what will you defend as tangible measures to help Greece in this context? Should not the lack of sense of the measures imposed by the Eurogroup on Greece without even having sought the opinion of the EPSCO Council lead it to become more involved, if necessary, when such measures affecting population and public health are taken? Minister, thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u113	Mr Senesael, the informal EPSCO Council addressed this issue on 24 and 25 September 2015 from two angles. Thus, the relationship between European budgetary regulation and health policy was discussed independently of the direct implications for the Greek context, since EPSCO addressed the health situation of migrants. The establishment of the Council's agenda is a prerogative of the Presidency. Other States have the option of adding various points. In this case, it is for Greece to put this issue on the agenda, as it did for the health situation of migrants. A debate on this subject took place in September and I can inform you of the positions taken by Belgium at the time. First of all, I will mention the relationship between European budgetary regulation and health policy. At this Council, our country called for closer cooperation between health ministers to ensure that care is not treated as a budget mouthpiece, but as an investment in economic growth. However, European action requires a consensus in advance. In the present case, however, it is lacking. The majority of Member States regard health as an exclusively national competence and therefore reject any form of collaboration at European level. I do not foresee any fundamental change in this area in the near future. As a result, aid to Greece in terms of health care in recent years has been organised mainly under the control of EPSCO. Belgium has been actively involved in this aid. In this way, Belgium has been actively involved in the reorganization of Greek health insurance and, in part, at the request of Belgium, the WHO was involved in Greece. This has led in particular to a reform of front-line health care. As for the results of these efforts, I cannot give you any information on this short period of time. To my knowledge, there is still no formal assessment of this reform. I will then deal with the situation of migrants in Greece. This item was also on the EPSCO agenda in September 2015 and, at the time, Belgium stressed the importance of medical screening of migrants arriving in the European Union and also stressed that incoming migrants do not pose a major health risk to the European population but, on the other hand, they suffer the severe consequences of multiple days of travel. There is now a new initiative by the European Commission to free up EUR 700 million for emergency humanitarian aid in Europe. This amount would be released in three tranches: EUR 300 million in 2016, EUR 200 million in 2017 and EUR 200 million in 2018. So far, humanitarian aid was only possible in the context of external action. This is the first time that resources have been allocated to a Member State of the European Union. I hope that will change things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u114	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As a result, I will table a motion for recommendation. The EPSCO met in September, eight months ago. In eight months, however, the situation has changed negatively. I therefore ask that the dramatic health situation in Greece be placed on the agenda of the EPSCO Council, in the light of the elements that the Minister has provided. I also call for active cooperation within the EPSCO Council, in particular, so that concrete responses and aid measures can be taken to help Greece in this context and not as is understood in the response that the Minister has made. I do not, of course, question the minister's answer, but I am not satisfied with the elements of the answer because there is no European consensus. Moreover, health remains an exclusively national competence and, as a result, solidarity cannot be organised. I also call for the EPSCO Council to be systematically consulted when a European body – be it the Eurogroup or the Commission – takes measures directly affecting the social protection and public health of the population of one or more Member States. These are the three requests that will be included in the motion that I table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u115	In the meantime, the Greek minister has been replaced. The minister in charge in September was really very active, but that was no longer the case after that. It's also up to them to take charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u116	This recommendation will allow you to stimulate your Greek equivalents in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u117	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Daniel Senesael and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Daniel Senesael and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Asks the government: - to urge the agenda of the EPSCO Council for the dramatic health situation in Greece at present; - to collaborate actively, in particular within the EPSCO Council, so that concrete responses and assistance measures can be taken to help Greece in this context; - to require that the EPSCO Council be systematically consulted when a European body (Eurogroup, Commission,...) takes measures directly affecting the social protection and public health of the population of one or more Member States." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Daniel Senesael and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Daniel Senesael and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government to: - urge the EPSCO Council to consider the dramatic state of health care in Greece; - actively cooperate, including in the EPSCO Council, so that concrete solutions could be provided and support measures could be taken to assist Greece in this area; - require the EPSCO Council to be systematically consulted when a European body (the Eurogroup, the Commission,...) takes measures that have a direct impact on social protection and public health in one or more Member States." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Dirk Janssens et Jan Vercammen. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Jan Vercammen. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u118	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Order of September 27, 2006, provides in section 1 for the list of specific professional qualifications for graduates of a graduate or a bachelor's degree in nursing. However, some of the recognised titles have still not been the subject of an implementing order setting out the criteria for approval. This is particularly the case for the community health nurse. In response to a parliamentary question in April 2015, you indicated that you wanted to "understand the problem of specific titles as a whole, i.e. on the basis of dimensions such as the added value of patient care, the attractiveness of the nursing profession and the financing of hospitals, and finally in order to comply with European rules". Indeed, Directive 2013/55/EU on the recognition of qualifications must be transposed before 2016. In view of the division of powers between the Federal State and the federated entities, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 29 June 2015 which allocates the responsibilities of each of them for the transposition and implementation of the Directive. Last January, in response to parliamentary questions, you said: "As regards the work and drafting of legislation transposing the Directive with a view to the recognition of professional qualifications, they have been the subject of particular attention both from my office and from my administration. (...) Then, after the transposition of this European directive into Belgian law, I will enter into consultations with all the parties concerned on the vision that I intend to develop for this profession in the context of the reform of the law on the health professions, said Royal Decree No. 78, now the law of 2014. It is at this time that other topics will be discussed, such as skills and professional qualifications, the quality of clinical internships, the attractiveness of the profession, ethics and the quality of care for our citizens". You also indicated that "as there are too many sub-categories and special competences, etc., when Royal Decree No. 78 is revised, another classification of competences will be proposed without having all these sub-competences, which creates problems in hospitals. Everyone's skills are currently unclear." Minister, my group leader, having tabled a question similar to mine, she joins me in asking you the following questions. Have you ever set an agenda for the development and implementation of the vision you plan to develop for the nursing profession? Do you already have an idea of the classification of skills that you intend to implement? If so, could you inform us? It is essential that you consult the entire sector on the reform you want to put in place for nurses in order to have a consistent approach. Who do you intend to meet? Have you ever planned a meeting schedule? I thank you for your attention to this issue and for listening to professional associations that represent all nurses who provide quality care to the population on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u119	Minister, the European Directive 2013/55/EU requires eight competencies to be developed among nurses and, therefore, an increase in training with 4,600 hours of theoretical and clinical education, including a minimum of 2,300 hours reserved for the clinical part. These are the requirements of the European Directive to allow, in particular, the free movement of these nurses. The competences identified involve more autonomy, more responsibilities, as well as organizational and delegation capacities. Nurses become "general care nurses". On 1 April 2015, the Federal Council of Nurses unanimously adopted an opinion which it submitted to you in order to give concrete expression to the Belgian translation of these new requirements and competences. It was expected that you would translate these new skills, this new description of the duties and requirements of nurses into Royal Decree No. 78, which became the Act of May 2015. It's still not realized. Minister, what are the reasons for this? Does the problem arise from the overall revision of the May 2015 Act? Does this come from the description of the competencies on which you would have differences of opinion with the Federal Council of Nursing Art? Or is it the level and lines of training that need to be changed to meet these new requirements that would explain that things have not changed yet? There are two fields of study: the baccalaureate and the patent, the training of which does not correspond to the requirements of the Directive. Gateways could be facilitated to enable patented nurses to continue their training by joining the Bac sector. Or, they could benefit from a professional qualification distinct from that of bachelor's nurses. This would lead to a new profession with new skills expected and new jobs. This is part of the debate that we have already had in committee. Where are you in this process and in the choice of options? Finally, schools will have to adapt their curricula. Additional courses will have to be set up. What are your deadlines? Should this be done in coordination with the federated entities? How is this coordination going?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u120	Mr de Lamotte, Mrs Gerkens, thank you for your questions. I will also include the answers to the questions introduced by Mrs Fonck. Above all, I would like to elaborate on the transposition of the 2013 European Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending the 2005 Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the regulations on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. As far as nurses are concerned, Europe has set qualitative criteria for nurses responsible for general care, leading to automatic recognition in the various Member States. In addition, only those who meet these criteria are eligible as nurses responsible for general care. Nurses trained in Belgium will now have to meet these conditions in order to be able to benefit from automatic recognition in the other Member States. This is called mobility in Europe. Although this Directive aims to facilitate the free movement of persons, the underlying objective is clearly to provide quality guarantees to employers and patients using nurses from other Member States. The coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions transposed it into Belgian legislation, having regard to the Law of 4 April 1980 on delegation of powers to ensure the implementation of the Council of the European Communities Directive on the art of healing and nursing, by means of a Royal Decree transposing the European Directive 2013. The choice to implement this transposition by means of a royal decree implies that only the directive can be transposed strictlyo sensu and that no other element of the Health Care Professions Act can be amended. It seems to me important to inform you of the technical aspect of legislating, since some feel that the transposition of this directive would allow us to address the problem of the exercise of nursing, and in particular teaching. The abovementioned transposition procedure was also discussed in the Interministerial Committee on 21 March, during which a protocol agreement was concluded providing for the division of labour within the framework of this transposition. The Communities were therefore warned very early, both at the administrative and political levels, about the framework and modalities of transposition and its impact, particularly with regard to nursing. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of transposition and as provided for in the Directive, the title of nurse responsible for general care can be obtained on the basis of a diploma in vocational education, and of bachelor's or university-type education, provided that the criteria set out in the Directive are met. In the meantime, the Council of State has issued an opinion on the preliminary draft of the Royal Decree. The administration is analyzing it. At the government level, discussions will continue in the working group. The aim is to achieve the decree before the summer holidays. A report to the King will be circulated at the time of publication. In other words, the legislation on the exercise of health care professions will be in line with the European Directive. There will be legal certainty for all health care professions, including nursing practitioners, before the beginning of the next school and academic year. As regards the consultation with professional organizations of nursing practitioners, my staff have had bimonthly discussions with the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. It is through this and the written communication of the professional association that I know his views. We will return to this issue at the next consultation. You are still referring to an opinion of the Federal Council of Nursing on April 1, 2015. This opinion addresses in depth the professional profile of nurses and their qualifications and also details the conditions laid down in the European Directive. This profile is described as being of a fairly high level. The question is whether the minimum training could still be that of a bachelor's degree. Given that the descriptions of diplomas fall within the scope of Community competence, I will not dwell on this issue. In the context of further strategic development, I believe that there is no room for an intermediate profession between caregivers and nurses. However, the extension of the acts carried out by the former is the subject of a study and consultation with them. If we set up an intermediate level in Wallonia, but not in Flanders, we are no longer talking about "Euromobility", let alone mobility between the two regions. Secondly, you refer to the reform of health care legislation and, in particular, nursing. I don't want to go into the details yet. We mostly need a lot of nurses in general care. The model of excessive partitioning of professional qualifications and qualifications has its limitations, as it reduces the internal mobility of nursing practitioners within institutions and causes significant financial consequences. I prefer to develop a limited number of basic generic differentiations in this area as well as to promote the diversification of tasks and function, taking into account the care that the patient needs. The model of specific qualifications and qualifications could be consistent with this restriction. In addition, I am examining whether and how we could introduce the concept of nurse practice in our country. These nursing specialists who hold a master's degree can provide technical support in consultation with doctors, both in medical and organizational terms. A working group will provide me with its recommendations on this issue by the end of April. On the issue of nursing education, as you have seen yourself, nursing is taught at different levels in our country. I do not wish to go into more detail since this is a Community competence. We also invited the relevant ministers to the inter-ministerial committee, Mrs Milquet and Mrs Crevits. Regardless of the type of education, the qualification of a person as a nurse in charge of general care will depend on the conformity of his diploma with the European Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u121	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation of the timetable. I held that you had consultations but only one professional association. You want to release the royal decree before the summer holidays. I would like to draw your attention to the importance of the deadline in view of the fact that the courses start again in September and that the content of the courses must be limited. I take note of your answer and I can only invite you to continue to consult with the sector in order to be able to carry out a royal order that will adapt to all situations. I will follow up on this matter with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u122	It is true that this is not an easy file. European mobility is very important for our young nurses. There is a great deal of interest for them to visit other countries. We really need to avoid creating different situations in Wallonia and Flanders because it would be ridiculous to talk about European mobility when there are none in our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u123	On this point, I agree with you. At the same time, there's something I don't understand in your answer. Consider the requirements of the European Directive, and the number of hours of clinical and theoretical courses. It is estimated that this training, which will become the bachelor's degree, takes four years. Patent training takes place in a shorter time. It is difficult to imagine that the number of hours and clinical activities can be given in the curriculum of patentees. We'll have to change. Bridges will also need to be facilitated so that a significant number of people can borrow them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u124	It is not possible to do so within this time frame. The French Community had proposed to extend the period by internships and practice for six months. Mrs. Milquet explained it. In Flanders, we are thinking of other solutions, and why not paid internships as for doctors. It goes in every direction. But for me, it is important to have the same levels of education and training: for nurses, but also for the patient. When you see a nurse, you should not ask what training he/she has had and how many hours of internship he/she has done. You have to be able to trust the person you see. For patients, it is very important to deal with capable people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u125	It is indeed necessary to start from the requirements, to propose trainings that meet them, in particular in terms of the number of hours of activities. If paid internships are included, this means involving professionals who are not in a training situation. It's very complicated to organize. However, considering and organizing bridges would be a good thing. I agree with you, too, on the importance of general nurses. With the specializations, we lose this profile a little bit. This is also linked to an organization of the remuneration and progression of nurses; they specialize because for the moment there is no way to be valued otherwise. It is also necessary to carry out all this reflection. I am a little surprised by this aspect of your answer: in your opinion, there should be no intermediate staff between the caregiver, whose status is reviewed, and the nurse who becomes responsible for general care. On the other hand, you imagine potential master nurses who could be intermediaries between the nurse and the doctor or who could work with doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u126	No, it's not an intermediate trade. Not at all! They are nurses who have completed a master's degree after their bachelor degree, as can already be done. After studying nursing, you can study medicine. It's really not an intermediate job because they have other tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u127	All right. If more nurses are required, it would be worth checking whether there are different tasks to be done in relation to the evolution of medicine, the practice of modified generalists and others, rather than trying to organize training cycles that could lead to inequalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u128	An intermediate level would be valid only in Wallonia and would not be in conformity. No mobility could be foreseen in Europe or even Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u129	I hope, of course, that there will be the same in Flanders and Wallonia. I believe, however, that you and the Ministers of the Communities are confronted with fields that train nurses through the patent, who are afraid to disappear and no longer meet the requirements. This must also be incorporated into the reflection. Of course, your priority must be to provide quality health care by people trained in the best possible way. Free movement and compliance with the Directive will only be possible for those who have the powers to comply with those laid down in the Directive. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u130	Given the aging population, we will need all the channels to train nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u131	Care must be taken to ensure that nurses do not leave their jobs after five or six years because of working conditions. The number of nurses leaving school is significant. The shortage is not due to training. It comes from the abandonment of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u132	In this case, you must also contact the Minister of Employment!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u133	I think there are 2,800 nurses coming out every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u134	There are also doctors coming out... just like me, I did!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u135	So obviously! When will the next consultation take place? You say you want to finish before the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u136	The next consultation is scheduled for June. Our next meeting is scheduled. In the meantime, we will consult with the new minister responsible in Wallonia, given the departure of Mrs Milquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u137	Question No 10037 by Mr Damien Thiéry is transformed into a written question. Question No 10052 by Mrs Monica De Coninck is postponed. Question No 10056 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is postponed. The attached questions Nos. 10063, 10103 and 11024 by Mr. Daniel Senesael, Ms. Catherine Fonck and Ms. Cassart-Mailleux are postponed. Question No 10069 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is postponed. Questions Nos 10072 and 10180 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Valerie Van Peel, attached to the inquiry No. 132 by Catherine Fonck, are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u138	Minister, we will have to agree on a date for you to come to consider the bills that are on the table, all related to tobacco. The members of the commission had asked that after the presentation of the bills, we could have a moment of exchange with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u139	Madam Minister, the question is already somewhat dated, because we have already received some of your answers through the media. My question also dates from before the Easter holidays. I asked a question at the time about a report that you would draw up on the efficiency of the measures in Australia and on the preparations that were being made in three Member States of the European Union, Ireland, Great Britain and France. These countries also want or have already imported neutral packaging for tobacco products. That report has since been completed and has been delivered to you. We have not yet been given access to that report. That is why I have the following questions for you. What is the conclusion of the report? I can already suspect them, since you have already stated through the media that you are open to further investigation into the neutral packaging. When will we also have access to the report? Perhaps that can be done at the time when you will come to the committee. What follow-up will you give to the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u140	Madam Minister, my questions, like those of Mr Van Hoof, date back a while ago and are therefore somewhat out of date. In the meantime, we understand that you will be coming to the committee shortly to begin the discussion on this matter. As far as neutral packages are concerned, I am still not quite clear what you want to do. I won't list the studies. They're known. It is important to know its impact in the countries where they already exist. Australia has good grades. The neutral packages have significantly reduced the number of smokers there, if I may use that word. Madam Secretary, when will we have access to the report of the administration? Do you consider the introduction of neutral packages, rather in the short term than in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u141	Madam Minister, I propose that I ask my two questions together, since one is already a bit dated and I can skip the introduction. The report referred to by Mr Van Hoof evaluates the results of the introduction of neutral cigarette packages in Australia since 2012. You said in October that you would include that report in the evaluation by your services, as well as the preparations being made in three European Member States, in particular Ireland, Great Britain and France. We'd like to look into that report. According to our information, there are quite a few positive effects on the Australian population. The number of smokers has fallen significantly, young people are discouraged, smoking is less attractive and so on. We wonder how you will proceed with that. On the weekend of 9 and 10 April, you communicated a number of measures on tobacco consumption. We particularly welcome the fact that a tobacco plan appears to be on the table and that you support the principle of banning smoking in the car in front of children. Madam Secretary, what are your findings after taking note of the Australian report? What conclusions have you reached after your services have assessed the preparations in the three European Member States? When can we discuss the tobacco plan you mentioned a few weeks ago in this House? However, I have just understood that the President is organising this. As far as I've heard, there's no tobacco advertising ban in that plan. Why not? Why do you not present the neutral package until 2019? Surely it can be introduced tomorrow, so to speak, especially if the reports are positive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u142	Thank you for your questions. I will quickly translate the answer to Mrs Fonck, who is not present. My answer was drawn up in two languages. As I asked, my administration has produced a working document. I had asked for an evaluation to be made of the introduction of the neutral package, and its consequences, in Australia. I asked for that evaluation at the end of September. I also asked for an assessment to be made for the United Kingdom, Ireland and France, with the consequences there. Three years after its introduction in Australia, the studies confirm the impact of the measure. The objectives have been achieved, namely to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco products, to increase the efficiency of the warnings given and to reduce the capacity of producers to influence consumers. We must be aware that Australia has a different geographical structure, which is not the case for our country, where we find ourselves in another country after a two-hour journey. I shall then come to the official evaluation of the Australian authorities regarding the introduction of the neutral package. This evaluation was published a few weeks ago. In that report they underline the various positive impacts of the measure, including the reduction of prevalence, tabagism and exposure to tobacco smoke, i.e. passive smoking. They believe that this impact will increase further as the measure will be in force longer. My services are working on transposing the European Tobacco Directive. However, due to the delay, the introduction of the neutral package is no longer possible before May 2016. I then presented five measures with a real health objective for our country, in accordance with the government agreement, during the budgetary negotiations. Indeed, there was an increase in excise duties, which is directly linked to the tobacco plan. In that tobacco plan, we're working on several cases. Some of the issues that have been dealt with in this report are still to be agreed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. I am thinking, for example, of preventive measures, which will be discussed with my fellow Members. This will also be a very topical issue for the Community's fellow Members. The government must make a number of choices, so a political agreement must be reached on this. I will not anticipate the consultation process. It is certainly about measures to protect passive smokers, in this case underage children in a car. I support the proposals for this in Parliament. They must, of course, find their way in Parliament and it is up to the Members of this House to work on this. It is indeed useful, once a political agreement has been reached on all the measures and all the points and commas, to explain in detail the plan and working paper of our services on the Australian measure here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u143	Madam Minister, we await the political agreement on the package of measures you are proposing. I would like to make a few comments. If you choose a neutral packaging, it is absurd to continue advertising. Eventually, that won't make any difference. It is then the same colors and the same font and then it is logical that the two are connected together. That's important. You are right to say that the increase in excise duties is important. If there is a neutral packaging, the only difference between the different brands is the price. In Australia, at the same time as the neutral packaging, the price has been increased. The combination of these two measures has indeed led to a decrease in the number of smokers. For example, the price will be the most determining, not the advertising that is being made anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u144	Mrs Van Hoof, you mentioned that in your proposal. However, you mentioned 50%, but I could not find a consensus for that. However, both aspects are included. They're strengthening each other, all right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u145	Of course they strengthen each other. Expected revenue has also been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u146	For the sake of clarity, a part has been pulled forward and a part has been added: 39 has been pulled forward and 35 has been added before 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u147	Madam Secretary, that was the internal kitchen, where we could not follow. You're talking about a plan. I understand that, following a political agreement in the government, you will come forward with a plan, after which Parliament will do its job. I therefore understand that you will not come to Parliament with a draft law yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u148	There will be no draft law on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u149	There will be no draft law on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u150	(...). I've been a Member of Parliament long enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u151	Let us not go into detail, as it is agreed that the Minister will provide input in the discussion of the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u152	I agree with what Mrs Van Hoof said about advertising and the neutral package. You said in the press that you are not against the neutral package and that you would introduce it later, I believe in 2019. I therefore hope that this measure will be included in the political agreement with this specific timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u153	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with what Mrs Van Hoof said. When the neutral package arrives, do something about the commercial. It's supposed to be together. I am also concerned that the measure will not be foreseen until 2019. Why do you not introduce these two measures earlier? Administratively, that's for sure. There's no reason to rule that out. I remember, in particular, that all the measures of the plan, which you mentioned in the press, still need to be steered by the Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u154	The measures contained in the plan are my competence, but what can still be added to prevention is the competence of the Communities. This must be reflected in the Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic396x.u155	I understand. This also needs to be discussed further in the government, as I understand it. A measure relating to smoking in the car will be forwarded to Parliament, so I have abstained.
