ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u1	Madam Secretary, getting a subscription to play the Lotto weekly or several times a week is quite simple and customer-friendly. The threshold is low, the method is user-friendly and all information is on the website. However, the termination of the same subscription is a lot less customer-friendly. There is not much information on the website and it is not easily explained. One must seek the information in a royal decree to which one refers on the website. That royal decree still states that one must work with a registered letter. Subscribe can be done with two clicks, a subscription must be canceled by registered letter. So one has to go to a post office and put time and money into it. It seems very strange to me to set up such a threshold to stop playing, especially in the current economically difficult times. I don't think that's really the point. It would be logical for a subscription to be cancelled in the same way as it can be accepted. In the Netherlands this is generally done. Not only lottery products, but also any service can be cancelled in the same way as they have been entered into. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, is the method of registered writing maintained in practice, as described in the royal decree referred to on the website? Does the lottery in practice accept other forms of communication to stop a subscription? So, in fact, is she more customer-friendly than making her appear? Secondly, how are you going to change this regulation and make it easier and faster to unsubscribe, preferably according to the Dutch example, where a service can be stopped in the same simple way as it does? Thirdly, what initiatives will the Lottery take to make itself more user-friendly towards its customers, including the provision of information on the termination of a subscription?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u2	Mr Dedecker, for subscription to participate in lottery games, a form must be exchanged with subscription via the website or through a visit to a point of sale. It takes up to a few weeks for a new subscriber to actually participate in the draw. It is therefore not surprising that it is not just possible to cancel it with a simple e-mail. The Royal Decree of 13 July 2013 on participation by subscription linked to a European direct debit at the lottery organised by the National Lottery, called Lotto, and Euromillions provides that the subscriber has at any time the possibility to communicate to the National Lottery his decision and to terminate one or all subscriptions with a signed and dated registered mission. The National Lottery applies these measures, so there would not be any uncertainty at any time as to whether or not a subscriber participated in a drawing. Let us not forget that every subscriber can potentially be a great winner and on that basis can claim millions of euros in respect of the National Lottery. A registered letter is intended to protect both the consumer and the National Lottery in the event of non-reception of his or her termination sent by ordinary correspondence, as well as to hold evidence in the event of any future disputes. However, I will ask the National Lottery to consider how to introduce a more accessible procedure to cancel a subscription, taking into account technological developments and ensuring the legal protection of both players and the National Lottery. As regards the information provided, I can state that a simple and clear explanation is already available on the website of the National Lottery under the title "How to cancel my subscription." I looked into it myself. So I'm sure I can tell you that the explanation is completely correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u3	Madam Minister, my question dates back to 19 January, perhaps that information has been updated by now. If information is improved, so much better, that can only be positive. The threshold is indeed quite high. We're in the 21st century. I understand, however, that the National Lottery wants written evidence that is effectively requested to stop, no problem at all. In many sectors there are many possibilities to leave a written trail, to give a written confirmation to enter or stop a particular service. In order to start a service one must also have written proof, otherwise one will receive invoices that one has never asked for. Then one has the same problem, maybe it's a smaller amount than the super jackpot, but it won't be unimportant. We are in the 21st century, there are plenty of possibilities, such as confirmation by text message, through registered numbers and so on. There are thousands of possibilities. I look forward to your initiatives to simplify that procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 9197 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Devin's 9908 is also deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 9925 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u5	Mrs Temmerman asked to ask her questions first, because she still has another meeting to attend. I would ask everyone to limit the questions to budgetary control. Those who have several questions may of course ask them, but this is not a mini-debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u6	Mr President, I shall be brief. We have already had a debate on this subject in plenary. Everyone knows what it's about. Budgetary control has been there, but it is clear that we are going to seek the money again from families, sick people, pensioners and that the great assets and multinationals, not to speak of the fraudsters, are once again being spared. It has supposedly been an easy control, at least according to the government, but the way in which we try to balance things cannot of course be accepted. I shall confine myself to the questions, Mr President. Madam Minister, will you take into account the comments made by the Monitoring Committee for the preparation of the measures to put the budget in order? We see that a number of things that the monitoring committee has noted have slipped back into the budget. In other words, the air that has been removed is pumped back into it. Do you think that's normal? Will you take that into account for the time being or not at all? Secondly, what influence does Minister Bacquelaine's pension measures have on the budget? How much will the government actually save through pension measures? We believe that the pension measures taken in budgetary control are savings measures and do not reflect any vision at all, let alone a comprehensive vision of future pensions. Thirdly, the government promised an increase of 1.5% in the health budget. What is the impact of the savings on the health budget with that last check? Can you tell me what the new growth standard for health care will be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u7	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, I asked the Prime Minister two questions more than a month ago. Maybe they're a little out of date by now. While keeping the original mind, I will regroup them and update them. The idea that emerges from how you and the government approach the budget issue is first of all that of a lack of rigour – which may surprise a right-wing government, if you allow me to call it that – since you do not follow your own road map. I refer to this old picture that we were presented at the beginning of the legislature and that you must have received, too, since you were not yet a minister. For 2016, the target was 0.7% structural deficit, and then 0% from 2017, which was very ambitious. Now, obviously, we're not there anymore. Another sign of this lack of budgetary rigour is that tax revenues are considered to be very dubious. This is not only the opinion of the opposition, but also that of the Court of Auditors, the Monitoring Committee and the European Commission. The other aspect is the austerity practiced by this government. The social efforts requested thus revolve around 700 million euros. In addition, the public service is attacked through the redesign – still the meaning of this term should be clarified – and the "budgetary prudence". Minister, what is the fiscal trajectory for 2018, which is the deadline for achieving balance, as you said in the press? Is this objective realistic, given the delay in implementing the government's roadmap, the questionable assessments of tax revenues I have just mentioned, and the lack of attention to security and asylum? Moreover, is it socially tenable? Indeed, it is realized that social expenditure is at risk on all sides, whether it concerns pensions, health care or unemployment benefits. The parties concerned and the institutions themselves complain about this situation. With regard to infrastructure, the newspapers indicated that Belgium was at the tail of the European peloton. We see here the limits of this austerity policy. I do not know, for example, what lessons you learn from information published in L'Echo on the situation of our country in this field, which is considered catastrophic. Even the FEB, which generally considers that we live above our means, makes an even more overwhelming observation. Can you explain to us what these 260 million "budgetary prudence" cover? What is the principle of this and what are the expenses involved? Can you also tell us what the redesign represents? This question often comes back, but I hope that one day we will get an answer. I come to the expenditure on security and asylum, about which I am reading contradictory information. Does the European Union see them clearly? Similarly, does the government think they are structural? Do you think that we will still face these expenses in the coming years or do you think they will end in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to inform you that I was disappointed that you postponed our scheduled appointment last week, which was to allow us to explain this budgetary adjustment. On the other hand, I was particularly surprised to learn that you were attending a Kern meeting when I thought that everything had been settled at the end of the Easter holidays. I was also surprised to find no information on the budget in the press release issued at the end of Friday's Council of Ministers. I really feel that this budget adjustment is not as serious and solid as the Prime Minister tried to make us believe in it in his communication and that you are still trying to understand the content of the two Excel pages that have been communicated to us to explain the budget adjustment. I am therefore very curious to know what the opinion of the Court of Auditors will be on this subject. I would like to ask you two specific questions concerning two budget lines, even if I could have asked you twenty. Be aware, in any case, that we deeply regret that you have not worked more on tax revenues, especially given the very large amounts that are not recovered, each year, for lack of resources within your administration. I see that the new savings in social security are going to hurt. They will obviously be scattered in a few lines, despite the commitments made in particular by Mrs De Block. As far as the method is concerned, we were very surprised how you considered the opinion of the Monitoring Committee. Indeed, you have decided to take back new revenue or savings that the latter considers to be unrealistic. They have been reinstated – this was the first step in the government's work – in the budget tables but nothing has changed, which is not very serious. I would therefore like you to give me more information on two specific points, even if I could have focused on many other points. Minister, my first question is redesign. I have tried to understand, by questioning the Minister of the Civil Service in the Committee on the Interior, the objectives, manner and method of work that will be used to achieve savings in the civil service without any further negative impact on the functioning of federal policy, whether in the area of justice or finance. On March 18, it appears that the Minister of the Public Service requested additional budgets to employ consultants, who could advise him in the implementation of this redesignation. First you have to spend to save! That still does not clarify the credibility of the figures: 100 million this year! We are already in April, and for the next few hundred million more will have to be released. Minister, in relation to the redesign, what is the status of this operation? How are you associated with it? Do you count points or do you play an active and central role? Do you think this operation will be able to achieve its budgetary objectives for 2016 and subsequent years, preserving the final quality of the service delivered? Do you confirm that the Minister of the Public Service has made a request for an additional budget for this redesign operation? How high? For what purpose? What was the government's response? Another element that caught my attention was the famous €400 million and €600 million envelopes for security policy and refugee reception policy, which you ask Europe not to consider as structural. It's a way to reduce effort. But the answer given in plenary session by the Minister of the Interior to a question from my colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre, regarding this €400 million envelope, was to say: "As far as the means are concerned, 300 million have already been released out of the 400 promised. They will be used for the police component to increase the actual number of police officers by 1,000. A total of 1,400 police officers will be hired this year and for the next two years, including the replacement of officers who leave the police." This suggests, in the case of hiring staff, that structural expenditure cannot be considered as one shot. I therefore do not understand the operation carried out vis-à-vis the European Commission. Minister, what is the exact content of the €400 million security expenditure envelope by post (e.g. for airport security)? What is the issue of non-structural expenditure? As regards the EUR 600 million for expenditure on the reception of refugees, what is the exact content, post by post? What is the issue of non-structural expenditure? What is the status of the dialogue with the Commission with regard to this non-structural character? What's your calendar? What is the Commission's view on this request from the federal government to exempt these expenditures from its assessment of our budget and compliance with our budgetary objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u9	Madam Secretary, I have some sympathy for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u11	Yes, that exists in politics, Mr President. Not every political relationship needs to be as tense as that between you and Minister Van Overtveld, just to give an example. However, allow me, Madam Minister, to join with a number of fellow Members who regret that we are only now hearing about the budget. I understand the political context, with a Prime Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister of your own political formation demanding a lot of space. I would still encourage you to play your part. The postponement of last week's committee meeting was unfortunate because, in addition to the substantive debate, which has to do with the glasses we are looking at society and the conviction we have, there is also a budgetary debate that must be conducted on the substance. It is unfortunate that this is only now being conducted. You yourself were on the parliamentary benches not so long ago, so I hope you still have some sympathy with Parliament. I hope you can imagine something about that. We have already expressed our criticism of the substance in plenary and in a debate with the committee chairmen. The government continues to draw the map of injustice and to miss opportunities to change policy in the world after Panama. Mr Van Rompuy finally confirmed this in the studio of De Seventhe Dag: 122 million euro in the case of long-term sick and disabled people versus 60 million euro in addition...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u12	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u13	You yourself raised the figures, Mr President. In the meantime, I have also been able to lay my hands on the pdf of budgetary control, which also confirms that. That's the pdf you quoted back then. I would like it to be distributed to the banks: the EUR 122 million are in it, just like the EUR 60 million additional tax avoidance efforts on post-Panama. That's not right. It could and should have been a lot fairer, fairer and more human. That is, in fact, our main criticism of the substance. In budgetary terms, I find it striking when you consult the first documents that you strongly distance yourself from the assessments made by the Monitoring Committee. That is my first budgetary question, in addition to a plea for the justice agenda. Could you give a point-by-point outline of what the considerations were to deviate from the assessment of the Monitoring Committee? These reports are not just written.They have some value. That doesn't have to be a Bible for the government, but you can't just step over it. Can you be transparent to the committee on the points in which you followed the Monitoring Committee and in which you did not, and what is the motivation for that? In the following questions I focus on a number of things. What also strikes me is the voluntarism of a number of fiscal measures. For the EUR 250 million on real estate funds, there may already be a draft law, but it calls for full registration today. There is a tax regularisation, while there is no doubt that this will generate considerable debate in the hemisphere. The EUR 50 million diamond tax, which has not yet been approved by the European Commission, is also reappearing. I think that is also a point for you as Minister for the Budget. You are not a Minister of Finance, but that is, of course, a building block for your budget. Building stone is rather optimistic in this respect, because it seems to be quicksand, especially with a finance minister who gets his homework in order but difficult. So much for the tax measures. Then I would like to comment on the expenditure on asylum and security. A number of fellow Members have already asked questions about this. You are pushing it out of the budget, while at least there are indications that a large proportion of that expenditure is structural. Minister Jambon says it's about attracting extra police officers. I suspect, Mrs Wilmès, that you intend to pay those police officers next year, unless the government plays with an idea of a voluntary statute for police officers, but that seems a little too creative. So those cops are gonna have to get paid. Also next year there will be challenges in the area of asylum and security, yet they will be pushed out of the budget. Only a part of it will be phased in for the coming years, from the pdf with the budgetary table. Only a very limited part is therefore perceived or presented as structural. Well, that raises some questions, doesn't it? A final point that raises doubts is the redesign. Minister Steven Vandeput, yet mandatarian of a party who says that the government is living on a high level, is too fat and there one euro after another can be found, has been stalling for some time now with a redesign plan. However, these savings reappear in your budget table. The key question is what are the plans in this area?? On what basis do you base the amount of, if I am not mistaken, EUR 100 million redesign in this budgetary control? Our substantive criticism is clear: this could and should have been more just, especially in the world after Panama. There are a lot of vagueness, uncertainties and question marks in this. It's a bit like cutting and sticking, like this government's sorcery. Especially if we know what is still open in terms of fiscal effort, this is not an act of good governance. As far as the follow-up is concerned, let us together urge the Court of Auditors to do what is provided for in the law particularly thoroughly and as soon as possible. In the meantime, we're three weeks or a month after Duchess. In this budgetary context, our committee must be particularly vigilant and hear and activate the Court of Auditors as soon as possible. In conclusion, we may be able to discuss this later. I am, of course, looking forward to the Minister's answers, as it is the first time that we have heard her all about budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u14	The drafts of budgetary control and programme law must be submitted and then forwarded to the Court of Auditors, which will then come to Parliament within 14 days to explain its findings. That's not an abnormal procedure. The Court of Auditors is only here to give advice at the time when the draft is received from both budgetary control and programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u15	Of course, one cannot advise based on nothing. Perhaps you have an idea of the timetable or the submission of the document. Then we can discuss the session with the Court of Auditors so that it can happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, the budget is a forecast and therefore it always contains a random part. Saying otherwise would be a step away from reality. We're in a turbulent time. We see that the government manages an uncertainty that it provokes itself! He provokes it himself because the way he comments his own budget leads to a message that is difficult to decipher. Madam Minister, when you took office, you had the frankness to say that the tax shift was not funded to the tune of $2 billion. The facts make you right. It can be found in the general budget statement, and it can also be found in the report of the National Bank. So it is difficult to dissociate the fiscal purity resulting from the adjustment of the fiscal trajectory by 2018, because the government itself is putting uncertainty on its own trajectory. I'd like to know where we're on track today. Minister, how many billions will you still have to find by 2018 and 2019 to meet the budget path you yourself set at the beginning of the legislature, or the fiscal path Europe wants? This commission has the right to know the figures of the government, which are to serve as a basis for discussion. We will then have to check them during the debate in the Finance Committee when you table your proposed adjustment, in the light of what the Court of Auditors can say. Let us come to the budgetary adjustment itself, on which I have concrete questions. With regard to the Cayman tax, should it be understood that you have again revised its upward performance? It had already been multiplied by three, to reach 460 million, on the pretext that the scope of the bill, which had since become law, had been expanded. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance told us that the tax administration had provided him with figures. The audit of the tax administration's notes indicated that these figures were more likely to be reliable, since the tax administration explained that it was targeting the upper end of a maximum approach. So much so that we can doubt these 460 million, as some analysts doubt, who consider in the General Tax Review that there were loopholes to this Cayman tax. But you're adding $70 million. Explain to us how you arrive at this 70 million supplement at the time of the budgetary adjustment. In the same way, you are considering, under a "Panama measure" line, a return of 65 million. We're almost in May. If you were to adopt new legislative measures that would be effective immediately through advance payments, for example, it would still be necessary for the texts to be prepared and adopted. But then, I guess that's something else and you're waiting for the results of tax controls, or even judicial investigations. By the time we enlist, we'll be in 2017. There's something that I don't understand. How do you justify these additional 65 million? And above all, are these 65 million structural? Because it seems to me that you have incorporated them into your structural trajectory. With regard to the banking tax, you have visibly made changes to increase its return by 55 million in 2016. But on the other hand, there is a reduction in the cost of notional interest of 195 million, either through technical corrections or under the label "technical corrections". The fact is that the banking tax has been established in particular by revising the methods of calculating notional interest for the financial sector. I would therefore like to know how you resolve this contradiction of a reduction in the budgetary cost of notional interest, in a somewhat mechanical way, while you expect an additional return of 50 million. Are you going to touch on the modalities again or is this part of the cost of notional interest reduced by 195 million euros? In other words, we would like to see it clearly. Is it necessary to add to the 195 million, the additional 50 million that you expect from the banking sector, or does this come from complementary measures? There's something that seems kind of obscure. As regards the Sicafi, the Court of Auditors had expressed reservations, noting in particular that the FSMA had not yet delivered an opinion. I would therefore like to know whether, suddenly, you have made progress on the dossier, whether it becomes a certain recipe or whether it remains random. We will also recall the attitude taken by the Monitoring Committee on the Sicafi. It seems to me that there are 250 million euros here which are also subject to bail. Another problematic issue is the issue of tax regularization. Again, I repeat, it is May. We have just started the debate. We have requested a new opinion from the Council of State. I imagine that the item is on tomorrow's agenda, perhaps subject to reservation. At the same time, we will see if we have the opinion of the Council of State. Things may be going on. You are not immune to a legal or procedural incident. Therefore, is it reasonable to provide EUR 250 million for tax regularisation in 2016? Isn't that adventurous? Isn't that an exaggeration? With regard to VAT on gambling and betting, have there been any contacts with the regions to find out what is the matter in terms of competence, knowing, of course, that if precautions have not been taken, we will find ourselves in the same scenario as for tax regularisation with a problem of dividing the rules of competence between the different entities? On the expenditure side, I believe that you have been questioned many times by several of my colleagues. Is it a little clearer about the EUR 100 million redesign? What are the status of the working groups that have been set up? Have they produced concrete proposals that allow you to estimate the savings of EUR 100 million? Or are we still in a sort of more or less vague budget line, to which no concrete measures correspond? Can we therefore reasonably believe that these EUR 100 million can really be seen as a real economy, regardless of the political aspect linked to the proper functioning of our public services? These utilities are obviously not your priority. Indeed, you continue to impose efforts on the functioning of the institutions. Don't be surprised if problems arise tomorrow! At some point, it will be necessary to be able to meet its budgetary responsibilities. There is a budget prudence line of 265 million. Let's not be wrong about it. I hope that you will retain the sincerity that has characterized your speech so far. Are these new savings? If so, tell us, because Parliament has the right to know. Secondly, I return to the trick of this budgetary adjustment, which took the form of neutralisation of more than EUR 1 billion. The pretext was that Europe would be able to consider that there was nothing structural on the expenditure side. We will remember a €462 million allocation for security and another €650 million for asylum. You thought that Europe would allow you to do that. Is that a bet you're making? Do you anticipate the European decision? It seems to me to have understood that the means injected into safety related to a structural vision. In other words, these means that you are releasing seemed to me to be, in your mind, structural. What official signal from Europe have you received to tell us that you are rightfully going to neutralise a billion euros? This will have facilitated the continuation of your budget work, except that, and I have just compiled an inventory of it, several measures in terms of revenue and savings seem to me to be inconclusive. In this respect, I read in the report on the budgetary trajectory published by the Supreme Council of Finance: "However, the services of the European Commission have not accepted that these additional expenditure can be considered, even in part, as non-recurring expenditure or one shot operations and therefore deducted from the structural deficit". The Supreme Council of Finance continues: "With regard to the additional security cost, there is, for the time being, no official communication available from the Commission concerning its possible exceptional character". We cannot be clearer than the Supreme Council of Finance. What is your official response to this no less formal report of the Supreme Council of Finance? Finally, what do you think of Bart De Wever's statement that more than EUR 3 billion will have to be found at the next adjustment? He did not say "adjustment" but "next fiscal year". Do you agree with him, knowing that it is not anyone and that he has a certain weight in Belgian political life?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u17	Madam Minister, I will not dwell too much on what has already been said by my colleagues. Above all, I want to see today more clearly the desired and planned budgetary path for the coming years. We have recently had the decisions of the government in the context of budgetary control and we will have them in this committee over the next few weeks and months. Following the conclave on budgetary control, we also received the report from the Supreme Court of Finance and we have been able to read what efforts are still expected and set out for the coming months and years. Many statements have already been made by several politicians about the restructuring efforts that are ahead of us in the coming months, and we will probably have a lot of work to do in June and July for the further restructuring work. A question that remains ahead of us is whether or not we will achieve the balance in 2018 or 2019. I am also particularly interested in the further planned trajectory. What do you, as Budget Minister, expect for the forthcoming round in June and July and the path we must take to Europe and internally with the Länder? Madam Minister, my question specifically concerns that joint trajectory with the Länder and the efforts that each government and component entity will make in the whole of the effort. The Hoge Raad voor de Financiën also gave an opinion on these possible efforts by the sub-entities and the Regions. Madam Minister, in your capacity as Minister for the Budget, what do you expect of the sub-entities in the context of the common budget path and budget path? In particular, I would also like to refer to the passage and the opinion on the autonomy factor. It is expected that the autonomy factor will only be known in 2017. This factor is also included in the Special Financing Act. The Planning Bureau estimates the budgetary impact for the Regions as a result of the autonomy factor at EUR 1,5 billion in 2018. I would like to know the following from you. Firstly, what has been the outcome of your consultation with the Regions so far? What is the jointly foreseen trajectory in the coming years? Secondly, does everyone, including the various entities, such as the Regions, sufficiently contribute to the reorganisation of the government? What structural effort will the federal government make? What structural effort do you expect from the Länder and should they make? The answer to this question I liked to be broken down by Land in euro, with the percentage of gross domestic product. Finally, how does the Länder anticipate the new estimate of the autonomy factor? To what extent are they already engaged in the exercise that is expected of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u18	Minister, these are a lot of questions; you have the floor for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u19	I will try to answer the many questions as well as possible. I thank everyone for their questions and hope that my answers will provide the necessary elements to understand and appreciate the work carried out by the government in budgetary control. The Prime Minister has already given you an overall and rather detailed presentation at the plenary session of 14 April 2016. As you know, the conclave has made progress both in the budgetary field and in structural reforms. I have no doubt that they will be dealt with in detail in the ad hoc committee. In general, I would like to clarify that with the budgetary adjustment the government maintains the objectives set in the tax shift, which aim to strengthen the purchasing power of all workers and create jobs. I'll just say a word to excuse the postponement of the committee. I wanted to come and answer all your questions, but there was an agenda problem. You live and learn, and next time we may proceed differently. The risk that I would arrive late, or so late that I would not arrive, was so important, that I preferred to make the decision in time to postpone. I wouldn't have found it respectful to keep you waiting. We can look at things differently next time. That's just what happened. In concrete terms, our work is based on the objective of improving the structural balance by 0.6%, in line with the European recommendations for the whole of Belgium. The additional effort to achieve this objective was estimated by the Monitoring Committee at €2,247 billion. On the multi-year trajectory, as foreseen in the 2015-2018 stability programme, and as confirmed in the multi-year projection included in the 2016 initial budget, the multi-year trajectory is expected to achieve structural balance in 2018. In its preparatory opinion for the 2016-2019 stability programme, the Finance Requirements section of the Supreme Council of Finance has, in view of the evolution of the most recent macroeconomic parameters, effectively reviewed the multi-year trajectory. The Higher Finance Council thus foresees two trajectories that meet European requirements both in terms of the annual improvement of the structural balance and of the debt criterion. Thus, there is a trajectory that foresees a return to structural balance for the Belgian house, as of 2018, while another plans this return for 2019. On the basis of all this information, the federal government and the governments of the Communities and Regions must establish, in the coming days, the trajectory for Belgium and their individual trajectory for the period 2016-2019, taking into account the opinion of the Supreme Council of Finance. The federal government has already confirmed its desire to maintain the objective of structural balance in 2018. The Supreme Council of Finance deduced the government's efforts to achieve this balance in 2018. It is important to know that this estimate was made before the conclave and therefore does not take into account the impact of the measures decided at the March budget conclave. The annual effort identified by the Supreme Council of Finance to achieve this target is, at this stage, and anything else equal, for entity 1 of 0.25 % for 2017 and 0.75% of GDP for 2018. These efforts, which are measured against the unchanged policy trajectory achieved by the Federal Office of the Plan in March, are indeed not quite comparable to those identified in the 2016 initial, notably because the projection of the Federal Office of the Plan takes into account new macroeconomic data – that's a bit the purpose of the exercise – and also reflects the upstream choices made by the Federal Office of the Plan as to the performance of certain measures in their projection. Consideration should also be given to the baseline effect on the revision of the 2015 structural balance level estimate between the 2016 initial budget and the multi-year projection of the Federal Office of the Plan whose impact alone is estimated for entity 1 to -0.45% of GDP. According to the Federal Office of the Plan, the balance was -2.05 per cent compared to -1.6 per cent at the initial 2016. This revision is inherent in the provisional nature of the data used. In this regard, I must stress, as I have already pointed out on several occasions, that the data for 2015, as well as the forecast exercise, remain provisional, as evidenced by the diversity of the estimates of the nominal balance that have been made in recent months. As a reminder, in February, the National Bank of Belgium, in its annual report, had a nominal deficit for the country of -2.8 in 2015, compared to -2.9 according to the European Commission's February forecast. Currently, according to the figure published last week by the ICN, Belgium's nominal balance would be -2.6%, which is a much better balance than the figures expected by the National Bank of Belgium or the European Commission at the beginning of the year. I insist on the following. We always compare, and each time we revive the discussion on fiscal trajectories, which is very important. These trajectories tell us where we need to go. But it must be recognised, because it is the technicality of budgetary work itself, that these trajectories, by the fact that they are forecast, have a character that is not fixed at 100%. As time goes on, they also change, depending on the macroeconomic parameters but also on the thresholds observed the previous year. This allows me to underline the always indicative and necessarily fluctuating nature of all these projections. Building on the next economic budget of the Federal Office of the Plan, expected in early June, and the next report of the monitoring committee scheduled for early July, we will have a new estimate of the efforts required to meet our trajectory and thus develop our 2017 budget. As far as your questions on the March amendment are concerned, we first made technical corrections to the Monitoring Committee's estimate for a sum of EUR 153 million. These corrections were made, line by line, on the basis of the analysis of the report. As you have noted when reading the summary table of the conclave, corrections have been made both upwards and downwards. I can give you a detailed overview, line by line, as you asked, Mr Calvo. Technical corrections can be substantially divided into five types: primary expenditure, tax revenue, non-tax revenue, social security and health care. There are two corrections for primary expenditure. Compared to the Monitoring Committee's estimate, the ESA balance of Apetra will be 13 800 000 euros higher. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 March 2016, point 16, the ceiling of the Beliri Fund, a fund to finance the international role and the capital role of Brussels, is raised to 140 million euros in commitment appropriations and 125 million euros in liquidation appropriations, in order to reach the level set out in the cooperation agreement, which has a negative impact of 10 million euros on the balance. As far as social security is concerned, six technical corrections are to be noted, five of which entail a deterioration in the balance. The last correction represents an improvement in the balance. The initially committed costs for the abolition of restrictions on permitted work amounted to EUR 30 million, for the three pension systems. On the basis of a new estimate by pension institutions, the costs were set at EUR 38,8 million in 2016. With regard to the measures for the revision of the basis for the calculation of unemployment allowances for new entrants to the system, a technical correction of EUR 26 million is foreseen as the initial measures cannot be implemented. The proceeds for the social security components of the measures aimed at promoting start-up jobs were doubled, implying a negative correction of EUR 26.3 million. Since the transitional measures adopted during the social consultation mean that the income from the measures linking the age at which the supplementary pension is started to the age of an effective pension is 0 euros for 2016, we note less revenue for an amount of 50 million euros. The proceeds of the fakes connection and starter measures were double-tagged. This corresponds to a lower return of EUR 2.5 million. The integration of DIBISS and RVP should take into account a reduction of RVP transfer expenditure to DIBISS by EUR 28 million and an increase in DIBISS transfers revenue from RVP by EUR 44.6 million. The total correction thus amounts to EUR 73.3 million. For health care, the Monitoring Committee's report does not take into account the deterioration of the technical estimates of January 2016 as regards expenditure on medical care, or the subsequent entry into force of certain savings measures, which requires a technical correction of the balance of EUR 110 million in 2016. For non-tax revenue there are two corrections. The first is an estimate of the amount paid by the European Union to Belgium for the collection of customs duties. This amounts to EUR 3.2 million. The EUR 27 million correction should be seen in the light of the other EUR 27 million correction in tax revenue. A withholding tax is indeed levied on the increase in BNP Paribas' dividends of EUR 27 million. Finally, there is the correction of tax revenue. The tax cost of the investment deduction for high technology activities is estimated at EUR 55 million instead of EUR 40 million. There are two effects on excise duties. There is a reduction in revenue of 9.9 million euros due to the revaluation of the impact of an index adjustment on the amount of excise duties. In addition, there is an increase of EUR 52 million, which is linked to a revaluation of revenue from diesel excise duties. As regards the Cayman tax, the estimated revenue of EUR 460 million, as set out in the general explanatory statement of the 2016 initial budget, is taken into account. The tax reduction of 30% or 45% for the acquisition of new shares in start-ups introduced by the Programme Act of 10 August 2015 has a budgetary cost from 2016. It is estimated at EUR 5 million. The set-off of the exemption from the transfer of the farm levy for start-ups shall be entered in the national account as a grant and included in the Monitoring Committee's report as an ESA correction to primary expenditure. This has a positive effect of EUR 5 million. The revenue from the special liquidation reserve for 2016 is revised downwards compared to the figures of the Monitoring Committee. The reserve is not supposed to raise 298 million euros as in 2015, but only 174 million euros. This is a nominal correction of EUR 124 million. This therefore has no impact on the structural balance. As a result of the use of real tax revenue for 2015 that is worse than expected in the Monitoring Committee's report, the effort can be reduced by 11 million euros to achieve the expected improvement from 2015 to 2016. The positive impact of the evolution of the reference rate for the deduction of risk capital for the advance payment is further revised down with caution. The commission of EUR 327 million entered in the initial budget as a technical factor will be reduced to EUR 196 million. In doing so, you have made an overview of all the technical corrections during budgetary control. Additional savings of EUR 260 million and EUR 454 million will be made on primary and social expenditure respectively. Additional tax revenue of EUR 569 million and revenue of EUR 349 million are also expected as a result of a number of measures. The terms additional savings and additional revenue should be seen in the context of the Monitoring Committee rather than the initial budget, as is always the case with conclaves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u21	Mr Calvo, the Minister has the floor. I'm sure you'll get a chance to reply. The Minister is still very much in the process of answering. Listen to the end, and then you can replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u22	As far as the provisions are concerned, contrary to what has been said, the government did not decide in this conclave to consider the provisions "terrorism" and "asylum" as non-structural and to present them as such to the European Commission. First, it is important to recall, without going into the circumstances, that these two provisions have been set up to help departments cope with expenses arising from exceptional circumstances. You'll all agree. In its October 2015 guidance note on the treatment of asylum expenditure, the European Commission stated that: "The flexibility allowed by the Stability and Growth Pact makes it possible to take into account the additional expenditure related, for a given year, to unusual circumstances beyond the control of the State, both in the preventive and corrective aspects." This was also recalled in November 2015, when the Commission communication on the overall evaluation of the draft budgetary plan 2016. The Commission had specified that it would assess such expenditure on a case-by-case basis on the basis of observation data provided by the authorities of the Member States concerned. To be perfectly clear, expenditure related to the asylum crisis and the fight against terrorism and radicalism is well integrated into the budget in the form of provisions. Both provisions will be distributed as projects progress in the corresponding core allocations. All these commitments are part of the nominal and structural balances. The European Commission will assess the impact of these expenditures on Belgium's fiscal trajectory in its ex-post evaluation of the Stability and Growth Pact's flexibility clause. In line with what has been set out by Europe for the asylum crisis, on 17 March 2016 the government submitted a request to the European Commission, so that expenditure directly linked to the fight against terrorism and radicalism could also be considered exceptional and unpredictable. Note that after the Paris attacks, on 25 November 2015, European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, at his hearing at the Finance Committee of the National Assembly in France, stated that "the highest priority is to ensure the security of citizens. The Stability Pact can be applied flexibly and intelligently. In this context, the impact on public finances will be assessed in due course on the basis of the figures, on a case-by-case and ex-post basis." According to the government's contacts with the European Commission, the request made by Belgium on 17 March should be received favourably. The European Commission will therefore examine its ex-post expenditure. As a result, no specific timetable was provided. On the basis of these communications, the government chose not to include these expenditures in the additional effort to be made. However, we have planned a cost phasing in, which will in any case remain at the expense of the state budget after the crisis, as well as the recurrent expenditure of the additional amounts dedicated to the fight against terrorism and radicalism. In concrete terms, the government has opted for a gradual take-over of this additional cost, starting in 2016, in order to allocate the effort over time, via a phasing in. This will be, on the one hand, just under EUR 100 million from 2016 for asylum (income from social integration, commitment of staff to the Office of Foreigners, the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons, commitment of staff to the judiciary to take over the care of the MENA) and, on the other hand, an additional EUR 200 million from 2017 to cover the necessary staff commitments (police officers, magistrates, etc.) in the fight against terrorism. The asylum commission was set up at the start of the 2016 initial budget with an amount of 350 million euros. It was increased by EUR 300 million in the 2016 budgetary control to reach an available amount of EUR 650 million. Within a few weeks, the Council of Ministers will finalise the distribution of the commissions according to the needs of the various departments. The counter-terrorism commission, which consists of EUR 400 million, is divided into corresponding basic allocations according to the progress of the projects. As the Prime Minister said at the press conference, this envelope would cover, among other things, the following expenses: the Channel Plan, recruitment of state security staff, federal police and FPS Justice, expenditure on material for federal police, cybersecurity, protection of nuclear sites, etc. Whether it is asylum or terrorism commission, all applications must go through the traditional procedure of administrative and budgetary control. Consequently, item by item the amounts of these commissions will only be known exactly when those procedures have been completed. I'll answer your more specific questions. As regards "budgetary prudence", I will indeed present a circular of prudence as soon as possible to the Council of Ministers. The amount of underutilization was increased to achieve a result similar to the one observed in 2015. I will propose this Friday in the Council of Ministers the budgetary method to achieve this. The yield of the Cayman tax has not been increased, but has been technically adjusted to take into account a return of EUR 460 million. This was planned and indicated in the general presentation of the 2016 initial. The line called "Panama", with an additional return of 65 million, does indeed have a structural return to consider as incorporating the total amount of revenue expected for tax evasion. Minister Van Overtveld in charge of this matter has, I think, already indicated to you the measures taken by the government in the fight against this tax fraud. As regards the banking tax, the government agreement foresees an additional contribution from the financial sector of 100 million in 2015, and 150 million in 2016. The Monitoring Committee had taken into account an increase of only 130 million in 2016, which was not correct. The Government also instructed the Minister of Finance to present a simplified reform of the financial sector's contribution to the state budget. This reform will no longer cover a total return of 770 million, but 805 million. When you add 35 and 20 million, that's the 55 million you find in the table. Let's go to the Carat tax. This is not a total pension of 100 million. The Ways and Means budget does not provide any performance for this tax in 2016. That is why we have made this correction; we have added it and today the Minister of Finance has developed an alternative solution in the event that the European Commission does not respond favourably to the first request. This alternative also provides for a structural return of EUR 50 million. The tax on betting and gambling is calculated on a VAT calculated on the gross margin. Since VAT is a federal tax, it falls exclusively within its jurisdiction. A specific consultation on this subject is not required, but we have many others that require one, do not worry. As regards the redesign, in implementation of the government agreement, the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2015 approved a note on the optimisation of public authorities, called "redesign". The aim is to optimise the functioning of State structures, both in terms of expenditure and revenue, while ensuring a quality public service for citizens. In order to achieve this, the conclave has provided a maximum amount of EUR 10 million. The launch and allocation of advisory missions will be subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. This optimization will be based on six poles called "trajects". Each will deal with either a federal jurisdiction or a cross-cutting management process. These routes include centrally coordinated federal procurement, collection of government revenues, management of government real property assets, operational excellence in safety and public health, and integration of service processes within vertical CPS and other federal public services. This is horizontal integration. For each trip, working groups of senior officials have been launched. For more details, particularly in terms of performance, I invite you to ask the Minister of the Public Service, who is in charge of the matter. The steering committee of the redesign is composed of the directors of the strategic cells of the competent ministers, including myself, as well as the directors of the "general policy" cells of the vice-prime and the prime minister. He is chaired by the representative of the Minister of Defence in charge of the Civil Service. In addition, this body will need to validate the conclusions and guidance of the working groups. Optimizing is not denatured. I repeat: our will is to maintain or even increase a quality public service. Budgetaryly speaking, the government is considering a return of $100 million in 2016. It should also be borne in mind that the "redesign" project is not in the first place a budget project, but an initiative aimed at increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of public authorities. Mrs Smaers, I have partly answered your question. Unfortunately, she came a little early, because we are negotiating with the regions and the negotiations and discussions have not yet been concluded. Last week we had a Consultation Committee on which we took a budget balance as a starting point in 2018. We're still in the middle of this discussion. The various Budget Ministers have already come together to discuss several points. The discussions have indeed not yet been concluded and it is therefore too early to answer your question about the structural effort that will be included in the budget path.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's a lot at once. It would be worth reflecting on the method in terms of transparency. There is indeed some transparency in the information you bring to us. But could we not work on this transparency upstream? If all the information you have given us, which comes from the conclave, we had it in detail earlier – rather than informing the press and not much of the Members – we would gain transparency. Perhaps we could introduce a government transparency tax! We would gain in the quality of the debates. We could have debates a little more in line with the current situation. I understand that you have had a hindrance, but I have the impression that we are the carabinieri of Offenbach discussing decisions that date. Having said that, I remain with an impression of a lack of budgetary rigour on the part of the government on a whole range of measures, including tax revenues, even though I understand that what seemed to be increases is ultimately not. I am thinking of the Carat tax that had not been included in the 2016 budget. In addition, the Panama recipe remains rather mysterious. We can understand that we indicate new Panama recipes to treat communication but we don't know what it is! You are obviously not in a position to say so, and we have not had the information of the Minister of Finance. It sounds good, but we wonder what it's for. In fact, we will still be waiting for the Minister of Finance's plan to combat tax fraud. The amnesty is coming, but in the fight against fraud, we can't see anything coming. You haven't commented so much on the social situation, but the measures are very harsh. This echoes our discussions on the remarks made by the President of the N-VA, namely to continue efforts in the field of social security. The situation is now catastrophic for pensioners, when we know that Belgian pensions are among the lowest in Europe, given the disagreement within the INAMI Committee on health care and the disasters caused by exclusions of the unemployed. Today, the social situation is already untenable. In fact, demonstrations and strikes are being held these days. We wonder where the government is going. In terms of public services, you tell us that you want to keep a quality public service. I note, however, that the policy pursued by both this government and the previous ones has destroyed our public services and continues to do so, not to mention Belgium's poor ranking in terms of infrastructure. You did not comment on this fact, yet enlightening and serious. In short, we are destroying both our social security and our public services for a fiscal policy that does not even meet the objectives that the government had set itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, you are responding calmly. You paraphrase endlessly, but you don't really explain. You refer us, for example, to Mr. Van Overtveldt to know what is happening with the measures to combat fraud, but we are desperately trying to understand what it is going to do. You're sending us back to Mr Vandeput with regard to the redesign. But when I questioned him, he seemed to find out that he was responsible for this project. In addition, you did not answer a specific question. Do the notifications of these decisions actually exist? Have they been sent to the Court of Auditors? If so, when? Does the Court of Auditors have more precise documents than those available to this Parliament? I would point out that you were participating in the Kern last Tuesday and that, in doing so, you were not present in this committee. And I have not seen any decisions on budgetary matters in the communication on Friday's government deliberations. Have any decisions already been made? Does anyone know these numbers correctly? You explained the process, but what is behind the numbers? Let me give you three examples. As regards, first of all, the Carat tax, today you have doubts as to whether the European Commission will agree to this by informing us that Mr. Van Overtveldt is working on a plan B. This is a first piece of information. With respect to the redesign, you confirm that $10 million will probably be invested by the government to pay private consultants to limit reductions in the public service. As far as I am concerned, I am not in favour of spending 1 euro where this is not necessary, but I find it difficult to believe that savings can still be made in line with those you expect without waiting for the quality of the service. And here I ask myself whether the method chosen does not fall within the slogan. Finally, with regard to what you call "budgetary prudence", it has now been years since the ministers of the budget – in particular Mr Chastel's – issued circulars that give work to finance inspectors and prevent common sense spending. There are, today, many public servants who are paid and cannot work because they do not have the computer tool, the equipment and they are not able to carry out, for example, rogatory commissions abroad, simply because you want to save money. In reality, these are false economies, savings that cost the state because they prevent it from working. I, therefore, really remain in this impression of budgetary ‘passover', of a crazy budget train launched in the fog, with decisions that seem to me inequitable from a political point of view. The question is whether anyone is in control of this budget. You have made a very long explanation, you have taken the time, you do not get angry and you express yourself well, bravo for it. But that is not enough for me, Madam Budget Minister, I want tangible things. I'm sorry I don't have it. The fog may rise at some point and then we will see the damage, I fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u25	Mr Gilkinet, I have at my disposal the notifications of the Conclave and budgetary control 2016. A number of questions have been answered. The minister has touched on the outline, but there is a document that I can forward to you. For example, with regard to the discussion of the 66 million related to Panama Papers, it can be seen in the notifications of the Conclave that these are eight measures, measures aimed at strengthening the sanctions linked to the transparency tax, more officials in the prosecution service, extension of the time limits for investigation and taxation in the event of receipt of information... As the Minister explained two weeks ago, he had mentioned eight points. They're mentioned here. All the points mentioned by Mr. Van Overtveldt is listed here in these notifications. I'll make copies of it for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u26	We will analyze all this with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u27	There's nothing secret. All this, of course, needs to be transposed into a project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u28	It would have been desirable for us to have had it earlier, in order to prepare for the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u29	I think the minister has given you all the necessary information, but if you want the details, she can give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u30	She explained that at that time it had been decided to integrate a particular economy or recipe, but she did not explain why that decision was justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u31	We will have the bill in two to three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u32	One hundred million euros to be saved in the Federal Public Service by the end of the year! 600 million by the end of the legislature! While the federal public service has already suffered enormous savings in both personnel and equipment, so much so that we receive countless testimonies from people who say that they no longer know how to work, in the area of justice, of tax inspection... I do not understand how one can function in such a way. I ask the Minister of Public Service and he discovers that he must make these efforts in addition to everything else. And when I ask the minister for the budget, she tells me to ask Mr Vandeput. But he himself doesn't know! How do you want Parliament, which exercises its role of controlling the government, to be reassured by such non-responses? It's a track game!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u33	I will not repeat what I said earlier. We still have the debate on the draft budgetary control, where the various ministers will also have to propose their budgets. The Minister for the Budget has given a general explanation here with a number of elements. If you want to go deeper, including with regard to the Minister of Finance, to the EUR 66 million, in the notifications, the Minister of Finance gives the various elements of it, which are wider than just the cayman tax, but I think we have a parliamentary discussion for that. We have heard the main points from the Minister here, which are the elements on which decisions have been taken. I'll share those notifications. There's nothing secret about that. You will already find a series of answers, which will, of course, be insufficient for the opposition, but which can nevertheless provide a number of answers to the sub-elements of the global figures which have been published in the press and which we have received from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u34	Mr President, I think we have a problem with our working methods. Tonight's the annual meeting of my parties. What are we doing with the budget and the annual accounts? My directors get the result, the budget and an explanatory note from me a week in advance. What do we make of this? The chairman of the committee says that he still has the notifications of the Council of Ministers in his drawer. Madam Minister, you are talking about a table that I have received, the table that is before you and which you have just gone over. As a representative of the people, I was given that table through the press. I checked with the committee secretariat. That table has not yet been officially made available to Parliament in any way. That's not serious, is it, Mrs. Wilmès?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u35	Mr Calvo, I have been witnessing budgetary control for years, here and in the Flemish Parliament. That document is now in preparation. That will come to Parliament within three weeks after it comes from the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u36	This is the document to which Mrs Wilmès refers. I've been able to follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u37	Then you've got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u38	I was curious about the differences, but there are no differences. The fact that the Minister for the Budget is almost suggesting that we have already received this document is crazy. This is not about the budget of an association but about the budget of the Belgian State. As a representative of the people, I get access to the PDF through the media, and you may be through the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u39	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u40	The notifications of the Council of Ministers will be made available. Well, with all sympathy, Mrs Wilmès, but that is not a serious way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u41	Mr Calvo, may I ask you with a great deal of friendship to remain a little serious. There is a document to be voted on by Parliament. That is the budgetary adjustment document. That is the only document that needs to be debated and voted on. I am always available to come here and answer your questions as fully as possible. This isn't serious. You'll get all the documents. You will have sufficient time to ask questions. I will take more time to answer all your questions, but at the time when the documents are available. These are the documents on which we must debate and on which we must vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u42	Madam Minister, once again, I do not want to rush into this, but you have to see for yourself that, when you referred to a budget table, you were talking about the pdf that we are discussing. I had hoped that we would not disagree, but apparently we would. I would have liked you to agree with me that it is not serious that I should receive that table through the media and that you should give an oral explanation of the table here. That is not a good way of working and I hope that we can put this way of working behind us. It is also quite unconventional that the chairman of the committee should always refer to the notifications of the Council of Ministers to resolve the questions. That's good, and I thank you for that, but it's pretty unusual. I think we can work together in a better way. Then the debate will follow as to whether the measures are good, fair and green enough. However, the method is suboptimal, to put it with an understatement. Secondly, the redesign. As the Minister for the Budget, you are not responsible for the implementation of any post, of course not. However, what Mr Gilkinet has just said is true. A few weeks ago, we questioned Minister Vandeput about the redesign, but he literally says that he is not responsible and that it has been taken over. Really, you should look up the answer. Then we wonder who's doing the redesign, who's giving perspective to the officials, who's modernising our government. That's a big question mark. It is therefore also a great question of whether the savings will be made. Thirdly, Panama. You have solved the Panama mystery; the EUR 65 million concern the eight measures announced by Minister Van Overtveldt. We will continue to work on that. The fact remains, of course, that EUR 65 million is additional revenue from tax evasion and fraud. It's half of what the government is looking for from long-term sick people and people who are having a hard time. That's gonna come up. Finally, I have an ordinary question for clarification. You replied that Minister Van Overtveldt will, if necessary, come out with a plan B for the diamond tax. In this way, you justify the inclusion of EUR 50 million in the budget. That's what I understand. I don't want to put words in your mouth. I just want to make sure what's really going on right now. However, you seemed to indicate that there was already a decision or an answer from the European Commission. Isn't that right? You have replied in the case of satsumas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u43	Mr Calvo, that is to ensure that the return will be achieved in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u44	That was not entirely clear to me, but you answer that there is no decision. And if there is no decision, Minister Van Overtveldt will come up with an alternative. It's been noted. Mr President, in view of the method, the doubts and uncertainties that have arisen in the budgetary exercise, we in this committee must at least get to work as quickly as possible and with sufficient time and space, in order to explore the budget and hopefully send the message to the current majority that it should be much more just. Madam Minister, I hope that our little discussion will allow us to work together in a better way next time. I don't mind going after information. Nevertheless, I would like the budgetary figures to be delivered directly to Parliament rather than to look for them in the drafting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, I think there is still some uncertainty about the billion that has been neutralized. It is not a question of saying that it is not in the budget. It's in the budget, of course. I am a little troubled when the minister says that this is part of both the calculation of the nominal balance and the structural trajectory. It seemed to me to understand that the government was going to try to plead with the European Commission to get it out of the structural path. When I ask you whether you have obtained official communications from Europe, you state that there would be talks and you rely on a statement by Mr Moscovici to the National Assembly in France, his country of origin, in a particularly difficult context where, I think, François Hollande said: "The Stability Pact must be erased in front of the Security Pact", which I understand politically. Here, however, it is a matter of looking at the reality of the budget. It seems to me that there is still some uncertainty in this respect. You're sending us back to the Minister of Finance, but he's done an inventory of measures that are supposed to bring back money. Maybe. I'm asking you about the temporality. You're adopting new measures, but when will the money go into the state coffers? Whether it is on the Cayman tax increased or on Panama measures, the money must come back, the files must be implemented, they must be able to lead to recruitments with agreement or without agreement. Maybe they're contensions. All this is really not clear. In the same way, you are sending us back to Mr Vandeput for the redesign except that you are an accountant for the budget. Mr Vandeput must be able to tell you today, after almost five months, where we are in this redesignation of the administration supposed to bring back EUR 100 million. I hope that your services will ask Mr Vandeput for an interim report by asking him specifically where we are. Knowing that, of course, I do not adhere to the target of EUR 100 million when it comes to making dark cuts in the functioning of public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u46	Again, we're talking about the budget. I don't have a problem hearing that you're giving up that 100 million, but then we have to find them somewhere else. Your slate will be all the more heavy. The issues remain outstanding. We will have to wait for the Court of Auditors' report on this budgetary adjustment. I didn't hear an answer about the Sicafis and the 250 million. Similarly, what about tax regularization? I don't think I've heard anything about this. That's a package of 500 million. Let us be reasonable: the text on tax regularization could enter into force on 1 June or 1 July. You have six months to get a year's budget return. That makes no sense, because this position should be divided by two. Mr President, you don't believe it yourself if I believe your head movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u47	(...) yield. You are well aware that tax regularisation can only be done once more. This often happens by the end of the year. It is not the case that a return is expected on a monthly basis. No, it's on an annual basis. Whether it enters into force on 1 June or 1 July, it will be possible to regularise in the next six months. Whether it starts on 1 June or 1 July, it does not make any difference to the rate of return: it can generate 250 million per year. It is not the case that every month, for example, there is a return of 20 million. No, it's about a regularization that can only be done once. I have already said it to Mr Calvo in plenary: the basis of the matter is what is meant by fiscal regulation and whether this 250 million can be paid. Then it is not about the time when this regularization is introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u48	Mr. President, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u49	We can discuss that with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u50	But Mrs Wilmès is Minister of Budget. It is also affected by the credibility of the new tax revenues that form part of the Budget. Now, what I'm telling you is that the law, at best, will be passed in a month's time to follow its legislative path. Secondly, the services that will receive and review the files and that will recruit the taxes must be put in place. The question I am asking is whether, within six months, we will be able to meet the budgetary objective which was initially set for one year. I'm not saying anything else. I have a doubt. I don't have any information about sicafi, but I have a lot of uncertainty. I believe that, unfortunately, you will have to bring with you again the difficulties that you do not encounter today and which are only postponed to the next exercise. I do not have a political answer to Mr. De Wever says he needs $3 billion at the next adjustment. Where is he going to find them? With 3 billion extra savings, I don't know how you're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that in the coming weeks we will be sitting together on budgetary control and that we will be able to hold many debates on the government's agreement and the measures taken. I think, above all, that you have rightly said that your answer is not complete and that you have not been able to respond much, since the procedure with the Consultation Committee is still in progress. I wish you every success in the Consultation Committee so that you can achieve a result in order to achieve an effective balance in 2018. I can understand that from your answer. There is still a intention to develop a trajectory leading to a balance in 2018. How efforts should be specifically shared between the different entities is still the subject of discussion. I'll wait for that meeting. I will wait for the answer. As far as the autonomy factor is concerned, you did not reply. This will probably be the subject of further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, I note that the notifications of the Conclave date from Friday, at least 15 days after the government press conference. I thought the notifications were made at the time of the adjustment. That would make sense. Minister, the 172nd Cahier of the Court of Auditors deals in its appendices with separate-management government departments and public interest bodies (PIOs). The Court points to serious shortcomings in the transmission and publication of accounting documents in some of them. Indeed, the Court finds that, as at 30 September 2015, the 2014 accounts of 11 of the 30 separate-managed State services were lacking. It points out that the situation has worsened since 2014. For IPOs, of the 63 accounts expected, 28 were submitted on time, 19 were late and 16 had not been submitted. The Court rightly notes that public sector entities are unable to comply with obligations imposed on the private sector since companies, ASBLs and foundations must have their accounts adopted by their general meeting before the end of June for deposit before the end of July. Minister, what analysis do you have on this part of the Court of Auditors? What steps have been taken towards failing entities? How many of them have been in order since then? Which entities have not yet submitted their 2014 or earlier accounts? What initiatives are you planning to take to avoid such delays in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u53	Mr Gilkinet, as long as the law of 22 May 2003 was not applicable to public interest bodies and State services, my colleague the Minister of Finance was responsible for monitoring the disclosure of accounts to the Court of Auditors. In principle, the transfer of jurisdiction took place on 1 January 2016, pursuant to Article 133 of the Act. However, following the transition from ESA 95 to ESA 2010 and updates by the Institute of National Accounts (ICN) to the 30 September 2014 list of public sector units, the number of institutions to be consolidated is increased to some 130 institutions, whose legal status, activities and regulation are very different. In order to take this new situation into account, my services have been working on an adaptation of the law and a postponement of its application, which would therefore be as follows: the law would enter into force on 1 January 2018 for self-accounting administrative services, public administrative bodies and state-owned enterprises. For entities treated as a public administrative body, it will come into force on January 1, 2019. The multi-phase approach would allow all institutions, in particular, to prepare for the changes that a harmonised budget structure could bring about for them. A first total accounting consolidation may therefore take place for the 2019 budget year accounts. My services are also developing a computer tool to organize, in a structured way, the flow of data from the institutions. I hope to submit these proposals to this committee before the parliamentary holidays. In the meantime, of course, I remain of the view that public interest bodies and state services must meet the deadlines. I have therefore sent a letter to my colleague in Finance, who draws his attention to the delays in introducing the accounts of a number of organizations and to the need to speed up the procedures for approving the annual accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u54	Minister, I take note of your answer. You'll agree with me that it's not very serious. I note that you sent a letter to the Minister of Finance, who was previously responsible for the matter and who, therefore, is still a little bit so. I wonder whether the cost-saving measures imposed on these various bodies are not the cause of these delays. I think we cannot accept them, as we do not accept them in the private sector. We will have an opportunity to discuss it again when you bring these projects forward again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u55	Minister, the issue is obviously important given the budgetary situation of hospitals. On Wednesday, 20 April 2016, the Institute of National Accounts (ICN) published the tables drawn up under the excessive deficit procedure (DPE) with a view to notifying the public deficit and public debt to the European Commission. In the press release accompanying this publication, Eurostat sent the ICN an official opinion concluding with the integration of Belgian hospitals within the scope of public administrations. I understood that, as a result, the ICN indicated that it had not done so and was awaiting an in-depth analysis of Eurostat's opinion, which, for its part, had communicated its decision to express a reservation as to the quality of the data transmitted by Belgium in relation to the classification of hospitals. Both organizations do not seem to agree. But what matters to me is, first of all, the reality of hospitals, that about 40% of them are in the red. It should be added that this is not a good thing since a reform of hospital funding is envisaged, of which little is known. Any decisions already taken are not known. In addition, there is a huge tile, in fine, since any investment in hospital infrastructure will have an immediate impact on the budget of Belgian public administrations. We are at risk of slowing down, decreasing or even discouraging investment. However, all hospitals, with the exception of a few that are more recent, have infrastructure that is more than twenty years old. They need to be reconstructed as a matter of fact. Madam Minister, I would like you to measure yourself how important the issue is. Have you measured the impact of hospital integration within the boundaries of government? Do you measure the impact of such a decision on investments in hospital infrastructure and how this could affect reconstruction, by rebounding on the health sector and, of course, on the quality of patient care?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u56	Mrs Fonck, as you said yourself, the discussions are not over. It is too early to assess the impact of hospital integration within the public perimeter. There are indeed still discussions between Eurostat and ICN on this point. In the press release you are quoting, it is said that thorough analyses still need to be carried out. It is not yet known what decision Eurostat will take, nor even the details of this decision which are also important. So I can only refer you to this communiqué that you know as well as I, which says that the potential impact on debt would be limited, because it is estimated to be less than 0.2% of GDP. Similarly, as far as future investments are concerned, if we do not know the impact, the final decisions or the details of these decisions – which themselves will play an important role in the way these investments are considered – it is difficult to decide. All the more so since, as you know, jurisdiction has been transferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic395x.u57	Madam Minister, if I may say so, your last comment has no report. The reform of hospital funding is a federal responsibility and therefore falls within the federal government's decision. That the impact is limited to 0.2% of GDP is one thing. What interests me, and that was the meaning of my question, is the negative consequences for important future hospital infrastructure decisions. You are telling me that the discussions are not over, of course, but it seems to me that the federal government should be proactive and put on the table a form of "health exception", because this is an important issue that I consider cannot be treated in the same way as other public investments. At the hospital level, these investments involve the public, private and voluntary sectors. Compared to Eurostat's interpretation of ESA 2010 standards, this is largely open to discussion. Moreover, if that decision were to be taken, alternative formulae would have to be found. We must be able to anticipate it and imagine formulas that will not prevent these fundamental investments in hospital reconstructions. I would like to insist because this is really a major issue, above all for patients.
