ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u1	As Mr Yüksel will be a little later, we shall begin with item 3 on the agenda, which is Mr Top's question. We will then be able to deal with point 2, which is the joint questions put by Mr Top and Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my question, which is actually in line with the discussion just now, deals with the workload during the Homeland mission. According to the press, the military unions are increasingly complaining about family problems in the soldiers deployed in the fight against terror. There are even reports of divorces. According to the trade unions, the situation during the Homeland operation is no longer bearable. The soldiers patrolling our streets must be available around the clock for 14 days in a row. Then they may return to the army quarter for fourteen days and may occasionally return home in the evening. According to the unions, the family tax is enormous. Our country is in a difficult situation because of the current level of threat. That is why I had the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm that more than a quarter of the military deployed have not yet been able to take the 2015 leave or have not yet been able to take it in full? Secondly, how many leave days from 2015 are we talking about right now? Thirdly, you have already mentioned in the press that you are investigating how the assignment for the military can be made more bearable.What is the state of play in this respect? Fourth, it is laid down by law that the annual leave balance of 2015 must be included before the legal deadline of 30 April 2016. On 8 March 2016, a note was published about not taking up the holiday credit 2015 due to the Homeland operation. The trade unions were not in agreement with the proposal in the note to convert the leave balance into relief for operations. What is the state of the social dialogue on this issue? Fifth, Defense would meanwhile prepare dozens of soldiers from the support battalions to have them execute security orders. We're dealing with engineers, entertainers and air force security personnel. Can you confirm that? To what extent will this reduce the workload of the combat soldiers? How many soldiers from the support battalions can be deployed? Finally, during the Committee of 20 April 2016, you replied to one of my questions: "Thanks to intensive training, the quota of available staff has been extended to include other support staff, but a further expansion of that potential is difficult as we have to meet a number of minimum requirements for deployment on national territory and as this also requires the necessary prior knowledge and training." Are we still talking about a further increase in this potential? Can you explain how this extension is possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u3	Mr Top, the average number of days off from 2015 that has not yet been taken by the military is 3.13. An agreement has been reached through social dialogue with the trade unions. We negotiated with the unions, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, and reached an agreement. The agreement concerned the conversion of unrecorded leave days from 2015 to duty waiver for operations. So that's a technical transposition. It is important that these days can be taken up until the end of the career the military. To make the assignment more bearable, work is carried out at various levels. On the one hand, attention has been paid to living conditions and comfort during the assignment. This is about spreading the soldiers over several smaller rooms, supplying beds to replace field beds, installing wifi access and cable TV in the relaxation rooms of the barracks where the soldiers reside, sports facilities and so on. Most elements of this improvement programme have been implemented or in progress. On the other hand, there is, of course, an attempt to increase the potential of deployable soldiers. In the first instance, soldiers from support units who have received specific additional training have been called upon to do so. These are mainly personnel from logistics or CIS units but also a number of military personnel from the rods that meet the minimum conditions of deployment. So that's about being Ops A, the classification of being declared operational, physically and mentally. There are a number of things that determine which category one falls into. Through the use of these additional military forces it is possible to guarantee the soldiers of the combat units a large leave for this year. So we have focused on ensuring that the people on the streets today can also effectively take a continuous decent leave of absence. So you will probably see soldiers with a different colour of hat in Brussels over the next few days and weeks. If that was mainly green, red-green, red, brown and black, you can also find grey and blue hats today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'd like another clarification. If you speak of 3.13 days, is that average per military who does homeland security or is that generally? That'll make a big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u5	I'm afraid to say that with 100 percent certainty. I'll have it checked, but it's whispered to me that it's an average for homeland security soldiers. You know that people in ordinary employment often do not take all their leave days either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u6	If there is an agreement with the trade unions to change the days of leave, that is actually a concession, which is good for the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u7	We have been looking for a technically feasible and legal way of extending leave days. We could have done that through a KB, but then we have to put an end date on it. We can guarantee it until the end of the career by using the exemption, which is technically a little bit different from leave. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u8	I have one last general thought. We do not know at the moment when the threat level will fall again, which means that the pressure on the military remains high. Another approach, in which other soldiers are trained so that they also get into the pool of homeland security, would have been partially solved and reduce the pressure on the military. However, I would argue that the situation should be closely monitored and that efforts should be spread as widely as possible between the military, so that the increased workload and pressure on some military personnel would not become untenable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u9	I've given an answer within two minutes. We still work in other areas. For example, the increased recruitment, specifically in the combat units, should also eventually contribute to making it more portable. First of all, we are trying to fill the organizational tables in the combat units, because that is essential in order to be able to carry everything, but we are working very widely on it. We are also in fairly good contact with the trade unions on this issue. Our finality lies, of course, in the operations abroad. This is not easy, but we have to do it because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u10	Minister, the Netherlands will deploy new frigates from 2025. The Netherlands is now in the need phase, this is the first phase of the trajectory which should lead to the replacement of the current M-fregates. After completing that phase, the Dutch House of Representatives will be informed about the results. The Netherlands also wants to address the new building internationally. According to the Netherlands, this is necessary, because the fleet of two M-frigates of Belgium and the two M-frigates of the Netherlands is one of the pillars of Belgian-Dutch naval cooperation. Your strategic vision confirms that we are looking together with the Netherlands for the follow-up of the M-fregates. In view of the efficiency gains resulting from the valuable cooperation, it therefore seems absolutely logical that the investment files in our navy should be aligned. According to flottieljeadmiral Georges Heeren, commander of the Belgian Navy, in the magazine Naval Forces, Belgium is looking for a frigate that can operate high in the force spectrum, with the emphasis on submarine combat, but can also be very flexible thanks to modular systems. The Christmas agreement of 22 December 2015 states that Defence will receive additional resources to replace the two current frigates. The subsequent powerpoint presentation provided an investment of 996 million euros for the new frigates, tactical drones and updates of the current models. The strategic vision of 21 June provides for an investment budget of EUR 1 036 million to replace the two frigates. Firstly, what is the state of play in the investment dossier for Belgium? Has an exploratory phase or a replacement procedure already been launched? Second, in 2005, Defence acquired two second-hand M-frigates from the Dutch Navy to replace the three remaining Wheeling Class frigates from the Belgian Navy. Is a similar option being considered now? Is there any chance that the DOD will buy second-hand frigates again? Thirdly, when do you think the new frigates should be operational in Belgium? The Netherlands is currently in a need phase. The Dutch minister already stated that the frigates in the Netherlands will not be operational before 2025. Originally they wanted to use the frigates by 2020, but the date was already postponed twice. Given the lead times of the projects, we have to take into account that it will take years before the first frigates are deployed. Fourthly, what cooperation is currently officially existing between the Netherlands and Belgium? Will we carry out this study together or will we carry out it? Is the procedure running at the same time or are we trying to ensure that it runs at the same time? The strategic plan registered a joint development, acquisition and support with the Dutch Navy. Finally, can you explain the difference between the price estimate in the January presentation and that in the current text? Can you split the costs between a frigate, a drone and the updates? The study "The evolution and future of Belgian-Dutch naval cooperation: spillover and political cooperation" by Captain Pieter-Jan Parrein shows that the cost of new multifunctional frigates is estimated at EUR 600 million per ship, according to the 2010 price level. The explanatory memorandum to the strategic plan of 13 January 2016 indicated an amount of 996 million euros for the two frigates. Today you estimate that amount at EUR 1 036 million. How do you explain those numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u11	Mr Top, the realisation of this investment dossier is in the planning and programming phase for us today. The acquisition of two new frigates, not second-hand ones, is based on a joint binational new construction project with the Netherlands. As I have always said, the replacement of the frigates and the replacement of the mine hunters are the same. In close cooperation with the Netherlands, a need-expression is drawn up. In this way we go in the same direction as "frigates," in which the functional requirements to be met by the frigates are laid down in detail. On the basis of an approved need expression, a process that we will each have to follow according to our own rules, the acquisition cycle will begin. The acquisition of newly built frigates allows them to be optimally equipped for the intended tasks and assignments. You say that we are putting quite a lot of emphasis on the fight against submarines because we are lacking in them today, but a frigate is the smallest ship that can handle the different dimensions, both the submarine dimension and the surface and air dimension. In addition, cooperation with the Netherlands offers, of course, a significant economic advantage. The replacement shall be provided from 2025. You have read this in the strategic vision. For us that has always been the planning. With regard to the purchase price, which amounts to 1.003 billion, it includes seven million for the development of the new radar. This estimate is based on detailed design studies and assumes that research and design costs can be shared with the Netherlands, which seems quite obvious. With the final upgrade of the current frigates, we arrive at 1.036 billion for the programme. The frigates will be given enhanced submarine control capacity through long and medium rangessonars, torpedo helicopters and a maritime helicopter that can be used for submarine and surface control, but that is specifically in another piece, with the equipment NH90. The equipment for the whole is also provided. The Fregathelikopter and the drones available to the frigates can make an important contribution to the maritime imagery and tactical intelligence gathering. The difference between December and now is that we specifically discussed resources in December. The strategic vision talks about maintaining capacity. The very intelligent Pieter-Jan Parrein, which you quote, has also made calculations about this. The difference in price between December and now is about capacity. Today we have a capacity that needs to be kept on track. We still need to make a few small investments in order to use our current frigates until 2025. It also provides for the total amount, as also provided for in the replacement programme F-16 with a final upgrade of the F-16 chassis, in order to be able to use them until the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u12	Thank you for the answer. However, I do have a few more questions to clarify. When I referred earlier to Captain Pieter-Jan Parrein, the price was estimated at EUR 600 million each. Is it because of the joint needs study and implementation of the development phase that so much of the price can be reduced? That's a first question. Secondly, is it already clear when the acquisition cycle can actually start? So when did the planning and needs phase end, so that phasering can be completed in good time? I would also like to make a final comment on the price. You explained the difference between December last year and June this year. I'm missing one case, but it'll probably be in the price difference for a piece. If I understand correctly, there was no drone in December last year, although it is now in it. Or is that minimal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u13	You should always be careful when comparing numbers. What exactly do these figures cover? Where exactly is the capacity? There are two things. Firstly, 600 million is an open source cost for a frigate with everything. We can argue a great deal whether we're wrong or not. The question is how much of the final means we use immediately and how much of the initial weapons we take into the initial investment. For example, for the replacement of the F-16 there is a difference between an aircraft and a fully armed and equipped plane. There are rules for that. Take it from me that the amounts that we put in front of us are academically studied, by academically I do not mean the ivory tower and have been reasonably correctly estimated. If you are looking for an explanation for the price differences, the first major difference concerns the latest modifications to the current frigates, mainly regarding radar capacity. Secondly, in January I said that it might be an option to invest in a BMD for the land component. We chose not to. By the way, I have already reported this in the media. However, we have provided a module to install BMD on the frigate if necessary. That also explains the difference. In December we made the decision to invest and the investment amounts for the major programmes were determined. Today, the strategic vision has been built around the fact that we have a certain capacity that we want to maintain and build until 2030, and this brings us to the amounts reflected in the strategic vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u15	Madam President, Minister, on 27 June, six Belgian F-16 bombers returned to an air base in Jordan to participate in the current bombing campaign of Daesh in Iraq and Syria. On this occasion, Major General Vansina told the RTBF newscast, which covered their departure from Kleine-Brogel base: "We are now in another phase in our fight against the Islamic State. This is the second phase of three. And the second phase says they're on the run because they're now hit very hard by coalition aviation." That same day, he also told the newspaper about 8:00 a.m. at the RTBF radio: "Of course, we know that the Russians operate over Syria and therefore, there is a convention between Russia and the coalition so that the planes do not meet in the air". Mr Minister, we have discussed this in camera in the Committee on the Monitoring of Missions Abroad. My questions are as follows. Presuming that the convention between Russia and the countries of the coalition active in Iraq and Syria, of which Major General Vansina speaks, is confidential, could you at least clarify to me the date of its signature, the name of its signatories and if it involves direct or indirect collaboration between the Belgian military, on the one hand, and the Russians and the Syrian army, armed arms of the bloodthirsty regime of Bashar al-Assad, on the other? My second question is more general. Major General Vansina refers to three sequential phases in the coalition plan. However, on 13 November 2014, during the discussions in the Committee of External Relations and Defence on the extension of Belgian participation in the international coalition against Daesh, about a year and a half ago, you yourself mentioned four phases: 1.The halt of the advance of Daesh 2. Engaging in initiatives of the Iraqi army. 3. Neutralization of Daesh fighters in their entirety 4. Emergence of a solid Iraqi state. Minister, could you please tell me if the coalition has changed its plan, obviously yes, and therefore structure of phases? Why? In what phase of the old sequence do we find ourselves? Could you clarify the sequence of the three new phases?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u16	Mr. Hellings, there is no change of plan. If a report mentions what I would have said in committee, I will check. I may not have checked the report. But my goal is not to change order in the phases of the international coalition. The convention between Russia and the international coalition was signed on 20 October 2015. The signatories were General L. Austin, former commander of the United States Central Command, representing the United States Department of Defense, and Colonel-General V. Bondarev, the Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Air Force, representing the Russian Ministry of Defence. The purpose of the convention is to prevent any incident between international coalition aircraft and Russian aircraft. It does not involve any international collaboration, as I always say, between the coalition military and the Russian or Syrian military. As for the plan of the international coalition, it was necessary to distinguish between the strategic and operational levels. At the strategic level, the United States Central Command has developed an approach that includes three phases: degrade, dismantle, defeat. At the operational level, the Combined Joint Task Force-Operation Inherent Resolve has developed a concept of operations that includes the four phases cited in the approach developed by the Central Command of the United States. Currently, the coalition is both in the dismantling phase and in the resumption phase of the Iraqi army's initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u17	I'll start with what you just said. This is the first time that we have faced this vision, either strategic or operational. Never in our discussions since 2014, there have been two different points of view. Four phases have always been discussed. I understand that there are now three phases from a strategic point of view, and four phases from an operational point of view. We'll have to change reading glasses every time. It would be easier for the phases to be the same, you agree, both from the Belgian and the coalition point of view: to know in which phase we are allowing ourselves to exercise democratic control over the operations you are conducting. If we know what phase we are in, it is easier to know whether it works or not. As far as the convention with Russia is concerned, it is also the first time that we have learned that there is a real convention. For, in the discussions we had, some two weeks ago in plenary in the House, on Mrs Grosemans' resolution on the ongoing military action in Iraq and Syria, it was clear first of all that a convention had been drawn up, which was reported by Major Vansina. Then we talked about a memory of understanding and then it was only about contacts. There is indeed an agreement signed in the House on 20 October 2015 according to your comments. Why is this so important not from a Belgian political point of view but from a strategic point of view? The war against Daesh is a communication war. Daesh is winning it. Why? For we know that Daesh plays on the feeling of victimization of Sunnis and, in particular, on how Sunnis today, in Syria, are victims of Bashar al-Assad's regime. The existence of a signed agreement – which I am learning today – between the coalition of which we are part and Russia suggests that there is a coalition of crusaders representing "Christians" against the good Muslims. And it is exactly the sectarian and extremist discourse of Daesh that you strengthen by the existence of an extremely strong symbolic bond, you strengthen the myth of Daesh by this coalition. You strengthen that by which our enemy is the strongest. It's amazing. Daesh is winning and you give him the weapons to win!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pirlot has converted 12848 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the federal government has urgently adopted an agreement in principle on a strategic vision for 2030. This vision is sorely unclear, particularly regarding the future of the country's barracks for which nothing has yet been decided. In my region, particularly in Hainaut, the military is worried and, as I said last time in committee, it would be unimaginable that military activity in Hainaut, and especially in Tournai, would disappear! We have fully operational barracks. I was able to go to the Ruquoy barracks to see it. In addition, I would like to point out that it is essential to have a correspondence between the living and employment areas of my region and the presence of military quarters. Minister, when will we get details about the future of the barracks in Hainaut?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u20	Madam Chair, Mr.Delannois, on June 29, 2016, the government approved the strategic vision for Defence. Before deciding on the establishment of military quarters, we had to make choices about the capabilities of our Defence. These choices have been proposed in the strategic vision and the government has just given me the task of translating this vision into reality. A plan for the future of military quarters will be submitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. It is my intention to present this plan, including the situation for the barracks in Tournai, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u21	Minister, thank you. When the government answers "as soon as possible", it always scares me a little bit. I asked Mr. Geens a question about the courthouse in Tournai and he said, "Soon." Between the "soon" and "as soon as possible", I sometimes find it difficult to understand. We are very worried in Tournai because there are increasing noises that military activity could leave. But Tournai has always been a garrison town. I would like you to be very aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u22	Mr Minister, as you know, the tasks of "nation aid" are important for the PS Group. At present, national civil security support missions are defined, inter alia, by the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 establishing a contingency plan for events and crisis situations requiring coordination or management at the national level, and by the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006. It appears that work is currently under way between the various departments responsible for this area, including National Defence, to revise and modernize legislation on contingency and response plans. In this work, what is the position of you and your ministry? What new functions could Defence carry out in support, and at the request of civilian authorities, in the event of an emergency or disaster? What other functions could disappear, given that your strategic vision indicates that "you are going to focus more and more on your military tasks, the other tasks being, as far as possible, outsourced to partners in the future"? What role could Defence play in the future in the federal phases for specific plans such as nuclear, chemical or bacteriological, given that Defence has resources, equipment and expertise in this area? Do you intend to clarify the legislation in force to prevent, as in the past, certain missions in support of civilian defence authorities from being seen as unfair competition by the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u23	Dear colleague, the initiative in this area is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. As you know, I always try to answer the questions in the most complete way. In the event of a request for support, the Defence will cooperate, as in the past, with the Interior and/or other departments, in accordance with the laws, royal decrees and ministerial orders in force. The participation that Defence will provide in assisting the nation will remain unchanged. Despite the restructuring of provincial military orders, the role in national security and disaster management in the national territory will be maintained, involving troops, but also by providing specialized means through a territorial command, centralized and integrated into operational command structures. In crisis management for CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear), Defence will continue to maintain its role and contribute to the federal, provincial and, to a lesser extent, the communal phase. When third-party support is sought from the Defence independently of legal requisitions, the possibility of competing with the private sector exists and is a risk. Indeed, we have already been condemned in the past. Therefore, the rules on unfair competition must be strictly observed. Case law has clarified the limits that Defence is required to respect in this regard. When examining applications for support, it is scrupulously verified that the conditions of the legislation in force are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u24	Minister, I take note of your answers, especially since the Defence will remain available in case...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u25	Do you take note or do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u26	I take note! I didn't say I disagreed. That's good news already. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u27	Minister, you have tabled in the Council of Ministers a new programme of scientific and technological research in the field of defence and security. This program consists of seventeen studies, which will be carried out at the various Defence-owned research centres. You have also presented three areas around which research is based. I am delighted to learn that one of the objectives is to optimize the academic teaching of the Royal Military School and to maintain its accreditation. Its academic staff is also asked to take part in this research programme. Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. For this year's program, what is the number of studies? How many of the seventeen and one studies are directly related to the Royal Military School? What is the budget for the 2016 research program? What will be the share of the research budget in this government's 2030 strategic vision? Finally, the scientific and technological research programme is designed in synergy with universities. Can you tell me whether they are integrated into the scientific policies of the Regions and, more particularly in Wallonia, into the competitive poles developed, for example, in the aeronautics sector? Have you consulted the Regions in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u28	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I congratulate you on your very important question concerning our efforts at the scientific and technological level. The budget for the science and technology programme increased from €4.245 million in 2015 to €4.409 million in 2016. For the years 2017 to 2019, the budget should remain at the same level and more emphasis will be placed on strengthening the partnership between Defence, the economic and industrial world and the academic world, in order to achieve more results with the research budget. As stated in the text of the Strategic Vision, the R&T budget is expected to increase to 2% of the total defence budget in 2030, in particular in line with the European Defence Agency standard. Additional investments for the R&T programme are planned gradually from 2022 to reach 140 million by 2030, in line with the text of the strategic vision. Over time, the Defence Research Centres have developed cooperation with several universities, both Belgian and foreign, through the projects that constitute the current research programme. Each partner is part of the scientific policy of the federated entity of which it is a member. For example, projects have been carried out in the aeronautics field between the Royal Military School and an industrial partner, Techspace Aero, and in the naval field between the Royal Military School and the University of Liège. As mentioned in the Defence Strategic Vision, strengthening Defence's contribution to scientific and technological research is essential to give positive impetus to the partnerships between Defence, the economic and industrial world and the academic world (the famous gold triangle). The means provided for this should make it possible to increase research programmes as well as synergies with federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u29	I confirm what I said in my question: I am delighted to learn all the efforts that are being made and I stress them. I understand that there are links with regional entities, such as the University of Liège or Tec Space Aero, but do you have contacts with the federated entities as such?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u31	It's about working on it next year!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u32	For me, too, it is important to work with the federated entities. But there are other ways of working at the political level. I like to invest better in concrete projects than in big meetings of anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u33	I get it, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, in the Defence Committee on June 29, as I was asking you about the future of the Royal Military School, you told me that projects would be tabled in the House before the school year. Today is July 13 and, unless I am mistaken, nothing has yet been tabled. Minister, could you provide us with a clear timetable for legislative work, knowing that parliamentary holidays are fast approaching and that the academic year is usually scheduled for September?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u35	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Fernandez Fernandez, the implementation of the reform of officer training at the ERM requires the adaptation of regulations at various levels. First of all, the law incorporates the general principles of training and an annual decree sets the curriculum of courses per academic year. An erratum to the program is being implemented for the academic year 2016-2017. It will apply to students who begin their first year of training in August of this year. This erratum is sufficient for the implementation of the reform for the academic year 2016-2017. Indeed, the reform has no impact on students who are currently in training at the ERM.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u36	Yes, you said so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u37	This reform will thus be implemented in line with the pace of training entering the ERM this year. The preliminary draft law amending the general principles of training can thus be dealt with in the course of this academic year and produce its effects for the following academic years. Finally, please be aware that, for the sake of transparency, the candidates of the ERM for the academic year 2016-2017 will be informed of the changes in progress via their letter of invitation. They will also be required to sign, on the day of their incorporation, a document to become aware of these changes. As I said before, it is clear that we will ensure that everything called for in the Lisbon Treaty will be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u38	I am, of course, pleased that all assurances are being made that things will be well done and, above all, that the students will be informed of them. I would just like to regret not being able to debate and vote on the bill before the start of the academic year, which would have made more sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u39	Minister, under the previous legislature, I asked your predecessor in plenary about the army's contribution to Belgian scientific missions on the southern continent. This contribution has often been considered indispensable, particularly in terms of technical, logistical and expertise. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers approved a preliminary draft law establishing a "coherent and comprehensive legal framework" for all activities subject to authorisation under Belgian law, which clarifies the status of activities carried out under Belgian jurisdiction for shipments to Antarctica. Minister, has Defence been involved in the work leading to the adoption of this comprehensive framework? Have you ever made a decision about any support from your department – even logistical and/or human – for future Belgian scientific missions in Antarctica? If so, will this support be graceful? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u40	Mr Blanchart, the draft law in question concerns the protection of the environment and the regulation of activities under Belgian jurisdiction in Antarctica. Defence was not involved in the work leading to the adoption of this general framework. The Federal Public Service for Scientific Policy Programming and the Polar Secretariat are the main departments concerned. This bill was tabled by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. On 29 April, on the proposal of Mrs Elke Sleurs, Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, the Council of Ministers took note of a note on the organisation of the BELARE campaigns at Princess Elisabeth station by the Polar Secretariat. The Council of Ministers has authorized Defence cooperation with the Polar Secretariat for the next four years. Defence will continue to provide operational and logistical human support to the Polar Secretariat. The modalities of execution will be reflected in an agreement between Defence and the Polar Secretariat. This will be proposed for approval by the Council of Ministers. All variable costs related to the engagement of the military contingent will be borne by the Polar Secretariat while the normal costs will remain at our expense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer because Defence's contribution has always been helpful and, in particular, for its expertise in logistics and technical materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u42	Madam Chair, Minister, in the government agreement, there is the following promise: "The government will seek to implement the recommendations of the parliamentary working group on language balance in the army." One of these recommendations stated: "In this context, the working group recommends, taking into account available budgetary means, a gradual reassessment of bilingualism bonuses for all categories." A positive first step has already been taken since, since 2015, this bonus is automatically paid without having to belong to a bilingual unit. However, it appears to remain well below its equivalent in the other FPS. Minister, what is this bilingualism bonus today for the various ranks of the army? Do you plan to increase it for these different grades in order to catch up with its equivalent in the other FPS? If so, according to which calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u43	Ms. Chair, Ms. Fernandez Fernandez, the Government Agreement states that the government will seek to implement the recommendations of the Parliamentary Working Group on Language Balance in the Army. I confirm it. This must be translated into action in several areas. In the financial field, the working group recommended, taking into account available budgetary resources, a gradual re-evaluation of bilingualism bonuses for all categories. As you point out, a first initiative has been implemented in this direction. A year ago, the requirement to belong to a bilingual unit to qualify for this allowance was removed. For example, the number of staff with access to this bonus has been expanded. Currently, the amount of this bonus is fixed by the Royal Decree of 23 December 1998 granting a bilingualism allowance to members on active duty. It provides for a gross and indexed monthly allowance of €24.79 for officers and €12.40 for members below the rank of officer. With regard to the second part of the reform, the current budgetary restrictions do not allow the planned gradual re-evaluation of the amount of the allocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u44	Minister, your answer is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u45	Madam President, Minister, in the recent past we have discussed the NATO summit on a regular basis. In Parliament on 30 June we adopted a resolution in which we included a number of points which should be taken into account. Last week we also had a very interesting exchange of views with three members of the government. The position to be taken was clarified there. Meanwhile, the NATO summit is over. It took place on July 8th and 9th. After the many events that preceded it, I have a follow-up question. The press, both national and international, has reported extensively on it, but I would like to have an overview of the discussions and the results of the NATO meeting, the attitude of the federal government and the feedback to the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u46	Madam President, Minister, the reason for my question is the NATO summit. I would like some feedback from you on that. I will not read the question I have tabled in full, but I would like to ask you how we have responded to our commitments. What are the results regarding the eastern flank and the relationship with Russia? As regards military cooperation in Eastern Europe, you said that we could make a commitment in a Benelux framework. What is the state of play in this? In our resolution, to which Mr Buysrogge referred, we also mentioned cyber defense and cyber attacks. How will we implement this point in concrete terms? What has been included in the NATO declaration on this subject? What concrete agreements have been made with NATO and the EU on maritime operations, cyber security and hybrid warfare?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u47	Colleagues, at the NATO summit in Warsaw, 28 Heads of State or Government decided to strengthen NATO's military presence in the east from 2017 onwards with the deployment of four battalions in Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In the context of burden sharing, the so-called Burden Sharing, Belgium will contribute to this collective effort and will cooperate with the Netherlands and Luxembourg under German lead in Lithuania. Germany is therefore primary nation for Lithuania. As far as our participation is concerned, the three Benelux countries have agreed to cooperate with Germany. I will have the defence staff coordinate the practical options with their partners in the countries concerned, after which I will be able to make a proposal to the government in the framework of the 2017 Operation Plan. Now I'm gonna earn my bilinguality bonus. With regard to Afghanistan, the Heads of State and Government decided to continue the Resolute Support mission beyond 2016. Belgium is ready to consider with its allies maintaining its contingent beyond 2016. This will be part of a subsequent government decision. By the way, the United States has indicated that it will remain with much more people than Obama had previously announced. It is noted that it would not be good to leave. In this context, together, we have said to the Germans at home that we are considering the option of staying with our quota for more or less the same tasks. The Heads of State and Government also agreed on a series of decisions to project stability beyond the Alliance's borders, including the launch of a new training and capacity-building initiative in Iraq, the deployment of AWACS surveillance aircraft in support of the international coalition against Daesh and a new maritime security operation in the Mediterranean. These last three decisions have no direct additional impact on our Defence because we are already contributing to the international coalition, NATO's AWACS capability and maritime security in the Mediterranean. As you know, we are already involved in teaching Iraqi security forces. We have a number of people in the AWACS system. It is also planned that the Louise-Marie will contribute to the Sophia operation later this year. From a military point of view, Belgium ensures that NATO does not increase the costs of personnel and/or operations, both of which are borne by the Defence budget. Moreover, Belgium has always promoted close cooperation between NATO and the European Union. There are voices in favour of increasing NATO's own budget, but no agreement has been reached on this. We were not in favour of that either. It is difficult, on the one hand, to ask the partners to invest more themselves and, on the other hand, to be unwilling to do so. At the summit, Belgium made no firm commitment to the future deployment of Belgian armed forces. Such an arrangement is always the subject of a government decision. We have expressed our intentions, but we have not made any specific promises. In order to answer specifically the question of the feedback to the resolution adopted in the Chamber, I can confirm that all Belgian interventions, positions and statements of intent, whether or not public, are entirely within the contours of this resolution. In this respect, we can see the NATO Summit in Warsaw as a success. With regard to defence investment pledge, the Prime Minister explained the strategic vision for defence to the NATO Secretary-General, Heads of State and Government, following the resolution mentioned above. In addition, I have had the opportunity to explain to my colleagues a little more about the strategic choices we want to make. For NATO itself, the defence investment pledge of the Wales Summit remains unchanged, there is a clear difference between better investment and more investment. There's clearly a focus...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u49	Of course more, that's what they keep saying. However, much attention has been paid to the aspect of investment in building up new capacity and so on. I therefore believe that the strategic vision is well in place in this respect. With regard to the cyber defence pledge, the NATO summit statement is fully in line with your resolution. That is to say, each ally must, in the first instance, guarantee its own resilience, which is called resilience. On the federal level, of course, it is an inter-departmental matter to which Defence also contributes and will contribute. However, for a comprehensive answer on this matter, I would refer you to the Prime Minister responsible for this matter. You know that the Cybersecurity Centre belongs to the Prime Minister. As regards the NATO/Russia Council and the joint NATO/EU declaration to be reviewed at the NATO meeting of Foreign Ministers in December 2016, I must refer you to Mr Reynders. However, I would like to point out that an important agreement with the European Union, represented by Tusk and Secretary-General Stoltenberg, was signed before the summit on cooperation in the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u50	Minister, I have no ambition to earn a bilingual bonus and will therefore speak Dutch if that is good for you. I am pleased that the NATO summit has listened to our resolution. I have also heard a lot of elements that we can come back to. What you are answering is so comprehensive that each of these subjects deserves a specific question. However, these issues will certainly be discussed here in the coming months. You also referred to the explanations given by both you and the Prime Minister in the text of the vision. You indicated that you were able to go into this in greater depth during the contacts with the Defence Ministers. What were their reactions to that? Was there satisfaction? Are there any NATO partners who have responded to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u51	The countries identified as strategic partners in the strategic vision, our immediate neighbours, have congratulated us. Firstly, with the conjunction of the whole. Secondly, with our strong focus on investment in forward-looking capacity. Thirdly, with the financial end result and the percentage of GDP considered realistic. We could have also opted for a vision text of 2 %, but we did not. We've made other choices. In this respect, this is seen as a realistic vision, to which we will of course have to abide. In fact, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeated this on several occasions in large fora. This choice implies a commitment to our partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u52	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The last element of your answer is an important addition, because that is what this is about. The commitment was to go with a concrete vision paper to that summit, which sets out the broad lines for the future of defence, as well as a number of elements that were included in our resolution. I understand from your reply and from the media coverage that Belgium is seen as a reliable partner that will carry out its efforts for Defence in the future. Can one conclude that we can be counted on, or am I wrong for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u53	Of course, it is always a question of what happens when the report is on paper. We have announced that we want to do something with the Benelux in the context of the measures taken in Eastern Europe. We have always been appreciated for our will to do something with what we have, to develop it. That certainly carries the approval. It is said that the proposal is realistic and feasible, but it must also be a commitment. It can't be that nothing happens now. We will now have to show the partners that we are serious. In the investment files cited in the preamble and the strategic vision, we must take effective steps forward. We must point out that these commitments go beyond a text for which everyone has applauded. The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u54	Minister, last week the head of the Belgian air component, Major General Vansina, indicated that precise interventions with fighter planes in densely populated areas require small diameter bombs (SDBs), which are more accurate, have a smaller load and can therefore limit collateral damage. That type of bomb was purchased by the Defense Department, but apparently the delivery can only take place in the autumn of 2017. My first question is, in the light of our mission in Iraq and Syria, whether you are in the fight against IS interventions with F-16. Or will our F-16-year-olds not participate in such interventions? My second question is, if you plan interventions in densely populated areas, will Belgium, pending delivery, borrow bombs from the coalition partners, as proposed by former CHOD, General Van Caelenberge? Have we agreed on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u55	Mr Yüksel, the purchase was explained in detail in committee. That was with closed doors, but you were there. I'm not going into the specific purchasing procedure, but you know how it goes. We can't just drive into a shopping cart to take some small diameter bombs or SDBs and leave. The contract will be concluded at the end of 2016 between the US government and the manufacturer. From the moment the contract arrives, we will take steps to obtain a faster delivery. Our resources are committed and planned to be settled at the right time. For the aid equipment, which is also part of the purchase file, such as the bomb suspension system and the test equipment, a loan would be possible, but no agreement has yet been made on this, because it is planned as a whole. Indeed, the SDBs have a smaller explosive charge. This has the advantage that they can be used in urban areas with a limited risk of collateral damage. Today, however, the types of targets that require the use of SDBs remain relatively limited. This does not therefore constitute an obstacle to the participation of the F-16 debt holders with conventional weapons. Based on a number of factors that our people know very well, we say yes or no to a mission. If we consider a mission too high a risk and the risk of collateral damage, then we will leave that mission to the coalition partners. The use of the SDBs of other coalition partners on Belgian F-16 debt holders is technically possible, but remains subject to the approval of the US under the arms export control law. Besides, that stock is just small today. There are not so many of these bombs available to the participating nations either. In case bombs are borrowed, as proposed by the former CHOD, the principle of replacement in child is used. This means that it is a loan and that the equipment is returned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The purchase and delivery of SDBS is for the coming months. I believe that the benefits of such an SDB outweigh, among other things, the financial costs. When it comes to limiting collateral damage, I believe that we should consider effectively the use of these bombs. It can strengthen our presence humanitarianally for a great deal. You said yourself that every bet is carefully weighed in advance. It will be checked to see if this complies with the safety regulations. You also said that the current targets cannot be attacked with conventional weapons. Since other countries also use SDBs, I believe that we should make this possible in the short term. It will then be up to the people of the Air Force to judge the opportunity of using those weapons. Avoiding as much collateral damage as possible seems to me a good starting point. The Belgian Defence has to sign up for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u57	Mr President, Minister, it was recently reported that on 13 November last, during the Paris attacks, eight soldiers of the French Sentinel Force were in front of the Bataclan, while the terrorists were continuing their carnage in the showroom. However, they would not have intervened, as their rules of engagement did not provide for this. The prefecture's instructions would have been "not to hire the military". Various assumptions have been made, including that we were not in a "zone of war", which is why these militias were not engaged. In Belgium, since 17 January 2015, military personnel have also been patrolling a series of sensitive buildings as part of Operation Homeland/Vigilant Guardian. Their number has changed over time, depending on the level of the threat, from 150 to more than 1800 in the wake of the attacks of 22 March in Brussels. Minister, what rules of engagement apply to this military deployment in Belgium? Could they intervene directly with their weapons to ensure the protection and safety of our fellow citizens? If so, what is the legal and operational framework and chain of command applicable to them? If they cannot intervene directly, as is the case with the "Sentinal" operation, then we are entitled to ask ourselves the question of the real usefulness of this deployment, especially in view of its weight on the normal operations of the Defence. While the military themselves say that "we have reached the limits of the system" and that "our forces are exhausting, our personnel are at the end of the race", is it really relevant to mobilise so many soldiers in front of public buildings without even their rules of engagement allowing them to intervene directly in case of need? Finally, how do you react to the report of the French Commission of Inquiry on the Paris bombings, which notes, among other things, that the French military, like the Belgian military, were mainly deployed in static positions, which, according to our French colleagues, "has the effect of better designating sensitive sites, making soldiers all the more vulnerable as they are dispersed and in small teams"? Are you considering changes to Vigilant Guardian based on the findings and recommendations made by our French counterparts on their own military deployment in the streets?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u58	Mr Dallemagne, I refer you to the answer to Question No 1372 by Mr Yüksel of 7 July, concerning the monitoring missions entrusted to the military. I repeat, first of all, that I have no comments on the French report. Subsequently, it was agreed this morning, on the order of business, to hold a committee meeting in camera to discuss in depth the specific aspects of Operation Vigilant G. I know that you did not get an answer today, but I hope that the date we are going to set will suit you. We will therefore be able to discuss the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u59	Minister, I have learned that an in camera discussion has been proposed and I welcome it. However, can you answer the following question? Contrary to what is in force in France, do our military have the right to ensure the protection of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u60	I'm talking about it today in an interview with the Knack. As I have explained on several occasions, the rules of engagement allow our military to do whatever is necessary to properly carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u61	... for the protection of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u62	For the protection of people...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u63	...people who would be the target of an attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u64	We have the legal basis, which I will explain to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u65	No, no. Simply, this question seemed very important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u66	The legal basis exists. A year ago, I indicated that the military was trained and that the rules of engagement were repeatedly reminded of them during their missions, so that they knew very well how to react. In addition, they know the legal basis. This is not essential for them, but they know that if there is a problem, they can act at best.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u67	Mr Minister, I thank you for this proposal to have a full evaluation of Operation Vigilant Guardian in committee and in camera at the beginning of the year. I would also like to thank you for having already made this point clear because, even if it had already appeared in the past, there was obviously a whole debate on the occasion of the publication of the French report as to whether, in our case, the protection of the population was guaranteed. I think it is important to repeat this and to make it clear that there are both clear rules, a legal basis and effective protection of the population. It is not simply a symbolic presence or a deterrent. This is a real response capacity. It was important to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u68	Minister, on the eve of his retirement, General Van Caelenberge informed the press of his analysis of the state of defence. His comments deserve our attention, especially since he obviously relies on personal and indisputable expertise and experience. Contrary to some somewhat triumphalist speeches over the last few weeks in your majority, General Van Caelenberge once again largely confirms my criticisms of the real budget state of Defence under this legislature, and the negative consequences of these reductions on our operational capabilities. In this context, General Van Caelenberge deplores that "there are now, because of the budget cuts, signs of the overflowing of certain services" with the result, among other things, that you have had to cancel certain missions abroad (he cites as an example the Central African Republic where the French have finally had to intervene alone). Then he argues that, "failure of money for our F-16s in Iraq, we had to do "chipotage" with the Dutch" (i.e. the "flip-flop" system, which I call the "intermittency war" for budgetary reasons). Finally, he says that, "fault of money, we have to pay attention to how many bombs we drop over Syria against Daesh", and that we plan to borrow bombs from our allies whose stocks we will replenish later. I would of course have liked to have received your comments on these issues. In addition, General Van Caelenberge recalls that "under this legislature, one withdraws 1.5 billion euros from the Defence" (even if, on two occasions, the interdepartmental provision allowed to reinject 100 million and that there would now be a promise of 200 million by 2019). What are the precise budgetary figures for this legislature? I have problems with subtractions and additions. What is the reduction in the Defence budget: $1.1 billion or $1.3 billion? General Van Caelenberge also points out, as we do, that the government has not approved your strategic vision, but has only taken note of it, without formal agreement. This vision, and I have had the opportunity to tell you, seems to me to be an extremely interesting exercise, but mortgages weigh on its financing. Its future will depend on the successors who will receive this inheritance, this will. General Van Caelenberge thus points out two major problems, according to him: the materialization of your vision is far from guaranteed and the fact that "the growth phase of this plan only starts in 2020, so until 2019 included, we will be in a serious weight loss cure, with an aging staff". This is confirmed by NATO figures, which in 2016 points to a further decline in the defence budget, to 0.85% of GDP, the penultimate place of the Alliance. The same applies to the share of expenditure on equipment: only 2% while the target is 20%. However, when I made the same remarks, you challenged them. The Prime Minister spoke of "historical decision" and said that "this legislature is undoubtedly a turning point in the right direction for Defence, which will have to be put to the credit of this majority". I find that these words are totally out of step with the reality of the figures. Do you also dispute today the NATO figures and the analysis of ex-CHOD, which confirm well that if one day the current weight loss cure actually stops, it will rather be to put to the credit of a future majority, in any case not of it, since it will have to wait until 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u69	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Mr Dallemagne, Defence has a budget of approximately 69 million to conduct its operations. In 2016, no missions abroad were cancelled for budgetary reasons. Cooperation with the Netherlands in the framework of the Operation Inherent Resolve mission enables the two partner countries to create synergies and achieve savings. This approach also allows Belgium to actively contribute to more operations despite a limited budget. The number of bombs used depends on the course of the campaign and the preliminary analysis made by the coalition against Daesh. Borrowing bombs from our partners is a common procedure mainly due to the delay in delivery of ammunition by the company. However, I can assure you that over the course of the year, we have placed various orders with our American allies to increase our stockpile of bombs. You often mention the interview given by the former CHOD to five journalists. I can tell you that out of the five reports that have been made, four reports are more or less neutral and one, which you mention, is not really neutral. But it's the way journalists work. As regards the budgetary effort, this was mitigated by the annual allocation of EUR 100 million of the provision "investments to cover the most urgent debts and investment cases in current equipment and infrastructure". I repeat that I do not take into account the figures mentioned. You're talking about $1.5 billion. The Socialists are talking about 2 billion. Or the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u70	No, I'm talking about $1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u71	That's not right either. I'll give you the numbers a year. For 2016, the budget amounts to €2,435.8 million. You know that we have an additional 100 million, every year, thanks to the interdepartmental provision. For 2017, the budget amounts to €2,425.7 million for 2018: €2,374.6 million for 2019: €2,324.3 million. These figures were drawn up before the decision taken by the government two or three weeks ago with regard to the strategic vision for Defence, according to which, during this term of office, EUR 200 million in liquidations will be released in order to cover some investment cases in urgent major equipment. In other words, the defence budget cuts were terminated in 2016. This is an important aspect. The objectives of the strategic vision proposals are to address contemporary budgetary challenges, to improve the investment levels of Belgian Defence within NATO and to optimize the operational functioning of Defence. I would like to add here that the 200 million mentioned above are destined for future investment. Indeed, some investments are needed to maintain the level of our capabilities until they are replaced. I am thinking in particular of investments in connection with the F-16s, the radars of the frigates, the means of communication for the army. At the same time, we are beginning to implement other investment and replacement projects. For example, replacing Unimog with LTTVs has begun. The latter are more suitable for current theatres of operation, because unlike the former, while remaining light vehicles, they have protection against AEDs. In parallel, the BEST project - the soldier of the connected future - is also being pursued. It's a 10-year-old file, but we're going to start placing orders to implement it. There are still two other things that I don't know about right now. As you were not there when we talked about the NATO summit, I can confirm that the strategic partners identified congratulated us all on our decision. First, they see this as a coherent plan. Second, the plan is to invest in the capabilities of the future while taking into account security circumstances. Thirdly, although it is true that we have not presented a plan at 2% of GDP, with our 1.3 per cent, our intentions remain credible. Bien sûr, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. We will have to show that we are delivering on our commitments. That's very clear. I believe that the Prime Minister, like the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I, have well communicated the fact that this is a commitment that we must honour. It's a kind of promise to our allies, and we have to keep it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic475x.u72	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I'm not going to tell the reporter that you think he's not neutral or impartial. I imagine the ex-CHOD's words have not been betrayed. I did not see a request for the right of reply coming from him to say that he had not said that. I think he confirms the serious difficulties facing Defence. As such, he's probably one of your best ambassadors. He insists on your needs. I am glad, of course, that a series of investments can be made. I imagine that the 60 or 65 million for the F-16s as well as the frigate radars, the BEST program and the replacement program of the Unimogs are included in the 200 million. However, I must note that the EUR 1.5 billion is not our study centre, but the Court of Auditors. She even talked about $1.7 billion, and that was fixed in $1.5 billion following government announcements. It is the Court of Auditors, the confirmation of the CHOD and the NATO figures. A whole series of elements go in this direction. You're reducing the budget hole a little bit, but you're only putting a few budget shovels back into a hole you've dug yourself. That's the reality. I welcome this document and it will be important for us to have a detailed debate on this document in due course. I regret that this is just a vision, I regret that the government has taken only action, but I find the exercise extremely interesting. In addition, there are few precedents, and few ministers have completed this exercise. That said, it remains a will, a bet on the future. As I say from experience, I have been in defence for a very long time and have seen many Defence ministers make proposals that have not been made by their successors. That is what is worrying. I am one of those who would like us to be a reliable, credible partner. I am sure that Belgium, thanks to your efforts, continues to try to be a partner, but with considerable difficulties. Without substantial reinvestment, I fear that we cannot be a reliable partner in the next two or three years.
