ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u1	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Belgium has, since the mid-1990s, developed numerous instruments to combat trafficking in human beings and protect victims. In addition, our legislation was updated in 2005 and 2013 to provide for criminalization that meets international requirements and facilitates prosecution of perpetrators. The system for the protection of victims and the issuance of residence permits was also the subject of legislative treatment in 2006 and a multidisciplinary circular organizing the work of the relevant actors in the field in 2008. These instruments have been evaluated. I was still with Mr Geens, who explained to me that there was still a meeting to rework this circular. Nevertheless, there is a clear distinction between trafficking offences on the one hand and trafficking offences on the other. Trafficking in human beings is characterized by the assistance provided for profit to a person who is not a national of the European Union so that the latter may enter, stay in or cross the territory of a Member State illegally. In the case of trafficking in human beings, the possible financial benefit is obtained by exploiting victims economically or sexually or by exploiting them through begging – which was mentioned earlier –, forced delinquency or forced organ removal. Based on this information, here are my questions. What about the phenomenon? What results have been achieved in this regard? How many cases have they been the subject of criminal proceedings to date? What actions are being taken with regard to smugglers? How many arrests and indictments have there been? What developments can be noted with regard to trafficking in human beings? How is collaboration with other Member States going? What type of psychological care is provided in specialized centres to help these people become aware of their status as victims? What do you think of the request made by MYRIA in its 2015 Annual Report "Human Trafficking - Closer Links" and the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings, to take the initiative to develop a government action plan to combat trafficking in human beings, so that several points of attention can be addressed in a uniform manner? At the international level, this should make it possible to better highlight and position Belgian policy on trafficking in human beings. Has particular attention been paid to this request? Are concrete initiatives on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u2	Mr President, Mr Kir, to answer your first question, I can say that the General National Data Bank (BNG) is a police database where the facts are recorded on the basis of the minutes resulting from the judicial and administrative police missions. It therefore allows counting on different statistical variables, such as the number of recorded facts, modus operandi, the object linked to the infringement, the means of transport used, destinations, etc. I will provide you with this data, which comes from the data bank closed on April 22, 2016. The first table shows the number of incidents recorded by the police in relation to trafficking in human beings, as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the national minutes for the period 2011-2015. You can see that in 2011, there were 291, in 2012, 266, in 2013, 215, in 2014, 257 and in 2015, 295. This is the number of offences registered by the police on the basis of article 77 bis of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, which has been incorporated into the Act since 10 August 2005. The second table you see includes the number of events recorded by the police in relation to trafficking in human beings with related subclasses, as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the minutes for the same period (2011-2015) at the national level. This is the number of offences under article 433quinquies of the Criminal Code. As you mentioned, there are several forms of exploitation. I will not read them to you here, but these are the figures on the exploitation of begging, sexual exploitation, economic exploitation, organ trafficking, forced crimes and crimes and the production of child pornography. What is the evolution of the phenomenon? Exploitation of prostitution and services and labour remain the two most common forms of exploitation. The exploitation of prostitution is carried out in less visible areas and in more hidden places. As the prostitution sector is expanding, the likelihood of involvement of authors goes hand in hand. The exploitation of service and labour is found in all sectors of the labour market. Bad employers misuse the postings of workers, the status of self-employed or assisting partners. The victims come from other European Union countries, but also from Belgium. In an increasingly competitive market that is large in staff costs, the risk of exploiting people for services or work increases. Generally, the sectors affected are those of "3D": dangerous work or service, dirty or which reduce work to a simple labour force. As far as your second question is concerned, these are criminal proceedings for which Mr Geens must give you an answer. Your third question concerns cooperation between the different Member States of the European Union. Police cooperation joins European cooperation in the context of European priorities, in particular trafficking in human beings. This priority is reflected in a joint European action plan called Impact. It concerns trafficking in human beings and provides for better exchange and sharing of information, action days, joint investigations, targeted projects to improve collaboration with third countries. Europol or Interpol participate in these European action plans. Europol also has cooperation agreements with a large number of third countries. Question 4: When an alleged victim is detected, contact a specialized and approved centre for the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings. They are provided with mainly psychosocial but also tailor-made medical, administrative and legal support. The victim needs to be calmed down. The alleged victim will obtain further information on the procedure for obtaining victim status and on the missions of the centre. On the basis of this information, the victim will be able to better understand his or her situation and deliberately decide whether to file a statement or file a complaint. As far as MYRIA is concerned, the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings has drawn up an interdepartmental action plan "traffic of human beings" listing the various actions for the next few years. One is to update the Directive on the investigation and prosecution of trafficking in human beings. For more information on MYRIA's 2015 Annual Report, please contact the Minister of Justice, who is the appropriate minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will come back to you later on the question of specialist centres and more specific support, although you have already given an initial answer. I had a more specific question about priorities. You have dealt with the various issues of trafficking in human beings: sexual exploitation, economic exploitation, forced crimes and crimes, organ trafficking, etc. Among these scourges, these problems, have you had a desire to set priorities? Have there been such discussions with the relevant actors? Is it at some point the kind of question that could be asked as to whether resources will be devoted specifically to certain scourges and whether political will could further direct the struggle towards certain problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u4	Priorities are set out in the National Security Plan. There, we stayed on to the global chapter of human trafficking. Why? If you compare the two tables, you see that the numbers do not match. If you take the total in one of the tables, for 2011, it is 360 and in the other table it is 291. What does that mean? There are phenomena of trafficking in human beings found in several sections, such as prostitution and economic exploitation. Things are connected. As is often the case in crime, this is not a single phenomenon, but a combination of phenomena. That is why we decided in the National Security Plan to have this type of criminal act as a priority without distinguishing between different phenomena.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u5	Mr. Chairman, I have obviously tabled a motion. I'll let you read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u6	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, recommends to the Government - to define a status as a victim of trafficking in human beings, including European victims and victims of cross-border networks; - to sustain the financing of facilities for the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, asks the government - define the status of 'victim of trafficking in human beings' and include European victims and victims of cross-border networks; - ensure sustainable financing of reception structures for victims of trafficking in human beings." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the construction of a building must take into account the normal basic fire and explosion prevention standards. The technical standards to be met by new buildings or existing buildings after enlargement are laid down in the annexes to the Royal Decree of 7 July 1994. From the horticultural sector, which is rather active in our region, I was told that the fire standards in force are difficult to apply to greenhouses for all kinds of reasons. This would have to do with the fact that, according to the KB, greenhouses are considered industrial buildings. For the purposes of the RB, an industrial building shall be a building or part of a building intended for the commercial processing or storage of materials or goods, for the purpose of its construction and establishment, for the cultivation or storage of crops or for the keeping of animals in business. Various industrial activities are carried out in industrial buildings covered by that definition. The 1979 Act on the Prevention of Fire and Explosion provides for the possibility of derogating from the basic standards where it is impossible to comply with them. For this purpose, builders may apply to the derogation committee. For horticultural constructions, the derogation committee would be called on regularly. The lead time would therefore be long. Do you think there's anything wrong with the current legislation on fire standards in greenhouses? Do you consider adjustments and which ones? Is it true that plant and flower farms often call on the derogation committee? Are there often derogations allowed? How much time does the processing procedure normally take for applications? Will you take measures to shorten that deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u8	The Royal Decree of 7 July 1994 laying down the basic standards for the prevention of fire and explosion involving new buildings lays down the general requirements to be met by all new buildings, with the exception of single-family dwellings and some smaller buildings, less than 100 m2. The general rules apply to all buildings regardless of the specific destination of the building. This approach is fully in line with the Constitutional Court's ruling on the division of responsibilities in the area of fire prevention. In a nutshell, the Constitutional Court stated in several judgments that the Federal Government has the power to issue fire prevention rules for categories of construction without taking into account their intended purpose, while the Communities and the Regions may supplement or adapt the rules by introducing specific fire safety rules related to the powers of the Länder. They must not interfere with federal regulations. The requirements of Annex 6 to the Royal Decree of 7 July 1994 therefore apply to all industrial buildings irrespective of the destination of the industrial building. Garden greenhouses or greenhouses are also considered industrial buildings. As the requirements of Annex 6 apply in general, they are not always adapted to each specific risk and construction. In particular for horticultural greenhouses, there are provisions in Annex 6 which are useful and improve fire safety with a high degree of sensitivity, as well as regulations which would lead to high costs in horticultural greenhouses, without a proportionate improvement in fire safety. I am therefore aware that the efforts that a builder must make to create a horticultural greenhouse that meets all the requirements of Annex 6 are disproportionate to an improvement in the fire safety of the measures. However, I am limited to making adjustments specifically for horticultural greenhouses, because the rules I issue should apply generally and not for a specific purpose, which is the responsibility of the Communities and the Regions. Nor am I in favour of excluding horticultural greenhouses from the scope of Annex 6, because there would be no more rules, even though there are not enough fire-resistant horticultural greenhouses. Therefore, I am not currently considering adapting to the existing rules, but I believe that there is work for the Regions to apply this more specifically to this sector. Of course, a state reform could also offer a solution, but it is not the case for the time being. I can answer your second question as follows. If a building does not comply with the requirements of Annex 6, the builder may apply for a derogation and shall demonstrate that the proposed alternative achieves a level of safety at least equivalent to that required by the requirements of the royal decree referred to above. It happens all the time. During the period 2010-2014, the Committee received 1 364 applications, 91 of which were for greenhouses. The Committee's opinion on the greenhouses was favourable in 86 percent of cases and only in 3% of cases. The remaining applications were superfluous or without object. Third, the average lead time for an application was around 158 days in 2014 and about 183 days in 2015. The lead time depends heavily on the number of applications, which has risen sharply in recent years, and on the number of persons responsible for examining applications, which has fallen in recent years. Regular requests for derogations for similar buildings, e.g. for greenhouses of horticulture, can be dealt with more quickly by the derogation committee if it is clear from the outset that a type solution is proposed, the equivalence of which has already been established by the committee. De Boerenbond has developed such a type solution for part of the greenhouses in collaboration with the derogation committee. It is intended that applications proposing the type solution can be dealt with more quickly, as the dossier should no longer be examined in detail and the committee should no longer examine the dossier in detail. However, the type solution is not mandatory, it is just a tool. An applicant may still propose another solution. De Boerenbond recently announced the type-solution on its website: farmerbond.be/brand safetyserres. In the meantime, the committee has received the first requests referring to this type of solution, and so this is going a lot faster than usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u9	Thank you, Minister. I understand you acknowledge the problem. You are referring to a different level of policy, which needs to be clarified. At federal level, it's obviously a black and white story. Of course, there should also apply to greenhouses fire prevention standards, but if 86 percent get a favourable opinion from the derogation committee, then there is a problem? I didn't know the type solution. It may offer a solution for certain companies, but it may not be taken over by everyone. Thank you very much for the answer, which has clarified a great deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u10	Mrs. Caprasse hasn't told us anything. We tried to reach her, but we didn't get in touch. Pursuant to Rule 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure, its questions Nos 14363, 14365, 14366, 14367 and 14368 are considered withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 14419 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u11	Mr Minister of the Interior, during this term of office, the government wishes to emphasize the return of undocumented people, whether "voluntary" or forced, as evidenced by its slogan: "voluntary if possible, forced if necessary". While the issue of forced return goes beyond the issue of detention, it includes the arrest of undocumented persons, their "imprisonment" in a closed centre and their expulsion to a country where they rarely have prospects for the future. Nevertheless, the CIRE's March 2015 report on "the policy of expulsion of foreigners to Belgium" recommends that the police services organise training for the officials concerned on legal procedures and the possibilities of accompanying them in matters of expulsion. I wanted to take advantage of the CIRE's proposal to ask you about these training issues. Minister, what types of training are organised? Can you advertise it here? Who should be approached to follow them? What is the number of police officers in particular, because I would like to know whether these trainings are actually being followed by our police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u12	Mr Kir, simple question, simple answer. The only service within the aviation police dealing with removals is the unit located at Brussels-National Airport. It's the only unit. All members of the "deportation" service must pass a selection. After the training, staff members undergo a minimum training of 92 hours (in nine modules) and a 35-day internship, including four remote missions. Training is only organized when there is a need for escorts. Since the single unit involved in this process is Brussels-National, publication is done only in that unit. The next training is scheduled this year and will start next week, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u13	Minister, a third of all apprenticeship agents who passed their final exams in early October have failed. This is due to an intertwining which means that candidates no longer have to get 10 out of 20 for the respective exams, but 12 out of 20. Before that, only 5% to 10% of candidates failed. According to the NSPV police union, there is a lack of guidance from the students. According to the federal police, the quality of the training had to be raised. Many police areas complained that the graduate officers lacked some basic skills. I am absolutely not questioning the need for or the need to be entangled. Perhaps the bar was too low and it was necessary to upgrade the training. However, we have to take into account the facts that exist today, so the shortages that exist today in the police force. I do not think it is a good solution to re-adjust the quality of training. This may be sufficient information and guidance for the candidates. I would therefore like an answer to a few questions. Is it true that the mentors for the internship have been abolished? Do you provide guidance for the candidates in any other way? There is a clear shift in success rates. Is there also a shift in the influx of candidates? What solution do you provide for this problem? Will the candidates be escorted to their second seat?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u14	Mr. President, Minister, the quality of training in police schools would have been revised upwards, according to the federal police spokesman. The score threshold required to succeed would have increased from 10 to 12 out of 20. "Modernisation", reports the press, which is not without consequences, since we observe a higher rate of failure among police aspirants, whether it is the results relating to practical or theoretical courses. This change in the level of demand would follow the lack of basic skills of some police officers, "not always ready for field work", some sources argue. Minister, what impact can this change in the requirement for success in police school have on recruitment and the number of police officers? Will there be a change, in terms of agenda, in the bailout of police areas? Can you explain the reasons for this increased threshold of marks required? Is it really related to the basic skills of the agents? Will there be any other changes, in terms of training, in police schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u15	Mr President, I shall start with Mrs Ben Hamou's second question, because this order allows me to develop a logic. The reinforcement of the required grade threshold is linked to the overhaul of basic training, the organisation by cluster and skills and the introduction of alternance learning. The overhaul of this basic training in 2015 is the result of the evaluation of this training and, among other things, of the demand of local police services to improve it. The goal is for this training to be more in line with police requirements in the field. With regard to the new basic training of police inspectors, the failure rate in the first session is indeed important. But this is the first promotion from this new formula. It should be noted, however, that many failures were limited and that no deliberations were planned after the first session. All schools have put in place efforts to remediate unsuccessful aspiring students to prepare for the second session. Deliberation is possible after the second session. In any case, we also seek to identify the reasons for failures and to provide, where possible, suitable solutions. Mr Top, as far as the new basic training for inspector is concerned, the number of failures during the first term of office is indeed considerable, but this is the first sitting time of the first promotion that was trained under this new formula. I would also like to underline the poor results of this first promotion of prospective inspectors. After the first sitting time, there is no deliberation. The current unsuccessful aspirants could not be dug by a jury because there is still a second sitting time. At the end of October there was a second sitting time and a deliberation. Only now will there be clarity about the success rates. However, I have not yet received these figures. As far as your first question is concerned, the principle of alternance learning, which is used in the context of this training, requires the presence of supervisors and not mentors, as for the internship in the old formula. Reference persons were identified and informed in the police schools to manage this new way of learning. I come to your second question. All police schools have taken remedial measures for the unsuccessful aspirants and in preparation for the second sitting time. For example, it is about discussing the results of the first sitting time, inserting additional exercises and so on. A number of failures would be limited to a point below average. Others would have to do with cluster formation for the different compartments and the required minima. In any case, we are trying to find out the reasons for failure and, if possible, to provide appropriate solutions without lowering the bar. I come to your third and fourth questions, Mr Top. It is too early to draw any conclusions, as only the first sitting time has ended. It is also too early to consider a possible correlation between the percentage of failures in the first seat and the number of candidates in the recruitment. The federal police, which follows the route together with the police schools, cannot at present draw a definitive conclusion in this area. An initial analysis is under way. You may rest assured that I will follow the situation very closely. It is important, however, not to lower quality, and this is only to achieve figure quotas. Quality must be guaranteed. An overall evaluation of the new training for inspector is planned. In early 2017, I will have a better view. This will be based on the experiences of the two promotions that ended their training in 2016. In the light of this evaluation, it will be possible to make proposals for improvements. This does not prevent solutions from being put forward in the short term. This brings me to your fifth question, Mr Top. As mentioned above, remedial measures are currently being taken in schools for the unsuccessful aspirants. I can only hope that the percentage of failures in the second sitting time will be more limited. Mrs Ben Hamou, in the current context, I would like to await the conclusion of the second session reviews and deliberations. It is therefore premature to make progress on a possible impact on the number of police officers to be hired in the police areas. A comprehensive assessment of the new training of police inspectors is under way. To date, we still do not have the necessary setback, since only the first session of the first promotion has been completed. In early 2017, I will have a more accurate view from the experiences of the two promotions that completed their training in 2016. I'll follow the situation closely. Nevertheless, it is important for me not to reduce the quality of the training of inspectors for reasons of quotas. I would therefore like to have a clear view of the overall evaluation of this training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u16	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We agree on one point, namely that quality must not be reduced. Let's stick to that principle. You refer to an overall evaluation in early 2017 after the various promotions, the first and second sitting time and so on. It is a concern that exists now, as there is a percentage of non-successful in the first time. It is not fun for those students nor for those who wait to attract staff, both at the federal police and in the local areas. It is therefore appropriate to take the necessary steps with the reference person, as you have indicated, through the police schools, even before that second sitting. I very much hope that the police schools will be able to provide adequate guidance to these people so that the success rate is sufficiently high in the second term and that we will achieve the same numbers, and perhaps even more, and that the quality of the people is sufficiently high. I have another reflection on the new proposal you are making to make training more general through ordinary schools. Also in ordinary colleges, the figure used to succeed is sometimes only 10 out of 20 depending on the direction, so it should also be kept in mind that the quality remains the same through that inflow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I fully agree with you. And I'll join you when you say quality takes precedence over quotas. Having said that, you have spoken of deliberations. I assume that these deliberations will continue to take place. Indeed, according to the field, it would seem that it is absolutely necessary to have one 12 out of 20 and that if someone gets one out of 20 for a course, his case will no longer be discussed. By doing so, it will fail automatically. Do you confirm that the deliberations will continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u18	Yes, we have a new chance to take the exams in a second session. Thereafter, there will be further deliberations. Currently, they have passed their exams in the second session. Discussions are now planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u19	For three years now, the number of demonstrations in Brussels has been increasing. By the end of 2016, this number is expected to reach 900, which represents an average of three events a day in the territory of Brussels alone CAPITAL Ixelles. These events are cultural and sporting but also, and increasingly, political and demanding. This type of demonstration therefore requires more police personnel to supervise them. The police officers in the Brussels area are already understaffed. The supervision of demonstrations and other events requires a lot of investment on the part of police officers who find themselves overworked, with all the negative consequences that this could have on their work. The demand for additional resources is not recent, it is increasingly indispensable. And it is on this point that my questions are mainly based. Will the Brussels police zone CAPITALE Ixelles be strengthened? Can the safety of demonstrators still be ensured in parallel with all other police missions, despite this lack of personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u20	Mr Minister, of course I am not going to repeat what my colleague has said very well. I would like to recall that all missions in the Brussels Capital area have increased, especially in relation to its international status, of course, since more than 450 thousand hours were carried out in 2015. The frequency of European summits in Brussels is increasing, as we know! The financial means do not necessarily follow and it is the municipalities that have made the most effort by increasing their share by 9.74 per cent compared to 4.4 per cent of the federal share. It is true that the KUL standard which determines the police capacity of each area has not been updated for a very long time. Moreover, in general, Brussels is experiencing a demographic boom. It is estimated that 400 police officers are missing in the Brussels-Ixelles area and 1,000 in the Brussels region. It is true that the Canal Plan that you are busy implementing, Minister, is not enough to meet the real needs of our capital. The means granted have not been increased or even indexed. The Brussels police are simply underfunded today, at the expense of local neighbourhood missions and local police. We're really pulling the alarm bell. Mr Minister, will the KUL standard be adapted or modified to the level of the population and the police of Brussels-Capital? What about the financing of the Brussels police? Will increases in events, summits and demographic changes finally be taken into account in your staffing calculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u21	Mr President, as I have pointed out on several occasions and in accordance with the Government Agreement, the KUL standard will not be adapted or amended during this Parliament. This issue is not part of the government agreement. However, it is true that the police zone has for years been seeking additional resources to enable it to fulfil its national and international role. The federal level, through various funding mechanisms, contributes a great deal and therefore takes into account the specific nature of this area. There are the traditional endowments, there are the recruitment endowments, there are the funds for the European summits, there are the security fund and some other specific funds for this area. In addition, the government decided to increase the recruitment threshold from 800 to 1,600 police officers in 2016, to 1,400 in 2017 and 2018. The Brussels area CAPITAL Ixelles will undoubtedly be able to make use of it. I am also thinking of various initiatives taken at the level of the federal police such as optimisation, the key task plan, the Canal Plan, interdepartmental provisions in the context of terrorism. All these initiatives are aimed at better supporting and relieving the local police of certain tasks. I can also add that on a computer level, we will have the e-police that we will provide free of charge at the local level. Mrs Lalieux, as far as the financing of the Brussels police is concerned, I would first like to go back to one of your statements to correct it. It is not correct to say that the resources granted to the Brussels-Ixelles police zone have not been increased. First, additional resources have been made available in recent years for the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region, particularly for this police area, in order to be able to fully assume its role as national and European capital and to cope with the increase in the workload linked to its status on the national and international scale. Between 2012 and 2015, the federal allocations under the European Summit Fund to the Brussels police areas more than doubled, from EUR 20 000 to EUR 50 000, a large part of which is destined for the Brussels-Ixelles police area. I would also like to point out that, for some years now, the Brussels police zone CAPITALE Ixelles has received a specific, proportionately large share through the allocation for the promotion of recruitment. This amounts to €712,000 per year for 2015. In addition, and not to mention reinforcements via the Canal Plan, I am pleased to announce that with the creation of a new leadership at the level of the Federal Police, all the missions carried out at the level of the Brussels courthouse will be fully assumed by the latter. Therefore, the Brussels CAPITAL Ixelles police zone will achieve a significant savings in staff. These are at least 60 people, plus ad hoc reinforcements. This gain will be achieved without any reduction in federal staffing in this police area. We are creating this for the courts. We're going to take the rescue and security forces into the federal police, and we're going to increase their numbers. This will free local police officers from this task. This will take place in 2017 and 2018. Mrs Ben Hamou, you have to ask your second question at the local level. It is the responsibility of the Chief of Staff to ensure that all basic features are provided. I would like to stress that the effective and efficient functioning of the police cannot be envisaged only through additional recruitment. Optimization, digitalization, economies of scale in police processes and procedures can also greatly improve police work and police capacity. As I said, we will provide e-Police to local areas that wish to do so. Cala will already help improve processes in local areas. Decisions on the optimal mobilization of police capacity in this area are local and therefore of local competence; the federal level, and in particular the federal police, can support it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u22	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to return briefly to the staffing. You're the one who decided to reduce the number of recruitments. At the beginning of your legislature, I have repeatedly called upon you. You lowered the recruitment threshold to 800 instead of 1,400. And that is what we are in today! That's good, today, you decided to increase. You're taking a step backwards. You're increasing the number of staff. Good! You knew very well that the Brussels area CAPITAL Ixelles had to manage a lot of events and organize events in Brussels. You knew it from the start. You have taken a step backwards and the number of staff has increased. That's positive! But perhaps I would like to open the debate on the status of police officers. This is a staff who are already working in the police areas. They have some experience. Perhaps if they were given the opportunity to take a reduced training course, for example, to six months, could they become inspectors? It would be usable personnel in the police areas, which could thus do the job of an inspector. I don't know if you're considering this. It might be a workforce that we could use before 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u23	Minister, I have never said that the share provided by the federal government has decreased. I said that the one provided by the municipalities, within the framework of the Brussels-Ixelles police zone, was much stronger, since it was 9.74 % (this was said in a report by the Court of Auditors) compared with 4.4% for the Federal Republic of Germany. This means that the municipalities have contributed more to the increase in tasks. On the other hand, issues not included in the government agreement sometimes fall into this government's scarlet. I will not mention some of the debates that the N-VA puts on the table. But frankly, the objective of the KUL standard was that the number of police officers according to population and services to the population be equivalent in all cities. It makes sense, Minister, in the event of a demographic boom in some cities (this is not just about the Brussels Region), that the number of police officers should be adjusted proportionally, since that is how it was calculated. Nor, Mr Minister, could we anticipate the proliferation of European summits in the wake of all the European crises that we are experiencing. We must never forget that this increase in European summits represents a huge cost to our area. I mean, we're going to get 60 people back as soon as possible, and the police's commitments, but I think instead of taking a small step forward, we'd have to review the KUL standard once and for all. You can put it on the table. I think this is fundamental for good medium-term management of police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u24	Minister, our country has more Syrian fighters per inhabitant compared to our neighbouring countries. That's not a matter of pride. According to the statements made by the former chief official of the OCAD, this is mainly due to the fact that we in our country started to map Syrian fighters very quickly. However, our neighbouring countries would not have done so, which would allow the number of Syrian fighters to be much higher in those countries than is currently being assumed. Moreover, it makes the succession of these people impossible. According to the European Union, there would be 5,000 Syrian fighters from the Schengen area. The problem is, of course, always very topical. In addition, of course, the Battle of Mosul took place recently. Last week, the Commissioner for Security, King, said that the European Union must be prepared for the return of a large number of Syrian fighters. That is exactly what my questions are about. What initiatives are being taken at European level to improve the registration of Syrian fighters? Do you think, for example, that a Schengen initiative should be introduced in this context? Have other EU countries already contacted us to learn from our best practices in this field? How does the succession of returned Syrian fighters proceed? I believe that this issue is very topical at the moment, in view of the situation on the ground in Syria, in Mosul and in other places, where ISIS is driven out every day. Is it not useful to look in this group at the motives of their radicalisation and their departure to Syria? Are you, very specific with regard to the succession of returned Syrian fighters on our territory, planning to take initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u25	Mr Yüksel, all these initiatives have already been taken. Many initiatives have already been taken at EU level, including under the impetus of the G13, a group of the most concerned EU countries, which I myself chair. The EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, Mr Gilles de Kerchove, a Belgian, also plays a major role in promoting measures on the issue of foreign terrorist fighters. In the meantime, there is a better signal of European foreign terrorist fighters through, as you asked, the Schengen system. It concerns the SIS II system, and more specifically Articles 36, 2 and 36, 3. As a result, information about the foreign terrorist fighters is exchanged with Europol and the international alert is also used via Interpol. In addition, the intelligence services also exchange data with each other through their own channels. There is a constant exchange of best practice through all kinds of forums and conferences. For example, the EU-funded Radicalisation Awareness Network (RAN), which exchange best practices through a series of working groups, is available. There is also the Global Counter-Terrorism Task Force, an initiative of the United Nations in which our country is represented through the EU but is regularly invited to attend certain meetings to present its specific expertise in the follow-up of foreign terrorist fighters to the others. The previously mentioned G13 group, convened by Belgium on the edge of each JAI, recently asked the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator to organise a meeting, together with the OCAD, on the European approach to returnees. There is also regular consultations at bilateral level, first and foremost with our neighbouring countries, on the issue of returnees. The follow-up of the returnees is organised through the circular of August 2015 by the Minister of Justice and myself. The judicial succession shall be carried out in accordance with instructions from the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the College of Attorneys General, which issued a specific circular to this effect. Of course, the first succession is often judicial, as all returners are included in a judicial investigation. In addition, the circular of 21 August 2015 clearly describes the working procedures, the follow-up procedures and the measures to be taken outside the judicial sphere. For this purpose, the structures set out in the Plan Radicalism are used. This is done at the direction of the National Working Group Foreign Terrorist Fighters and at the local level by the Local Task Forces. Within each Local Task Force, the situation of each returner is regularly discussed and the services put all the information together. Together they will examine what follow-up and measures are required and who will vouch for them. A judicial investigation may be parallel to regular home visits by local police or accompanying socio-preventive measures. In addition, more and more local integrated safety cells are being established for the complementary socio-preventive follow-up of the returnees. The cement between the LTF, the Local Task Force, and these local security cells is the local police. The information system is organized through the common database Foreign Terrorist Fighters. At present, both at national and international level, the best way to anticipate the expected return of foreign terrorist fighters is to continue to hit IS. All services, international and national, have been alerted and are closely monitoring this situation. After all, there are two possibilities: either ISIS keeps those people there in the defense, or it sends them back to perform mischief here. That is followed, minute by minute, not only by us, but also by the international colleagues, by the security services in the other countries. That information is shared with each other. This includes the need to properly assess their motivations with a view to an individual assessment of threats and risks. Addressing minors and the role of women in IS are also issues that are considered in this context. At national level, the services are in the process of developing an adapted strategy covering both judicial and administrative follow-up. At EU level, the EU coordinator, whom I have already mentioned a few times, will present a document at the next G13 meeting with the conclusions of the meeting of these countries at the OCAD on 3 October. The next meeting of the G13 will take place on Friday in 14 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. We must take this issue seriously, and you do so. I just have one more question. There is talk of a list of OCAD people being followed. I think that we need to clarify how many returned Syrian fighters are being followed. We are talking about a group of five to six hundred people. There are people in there who are potentially getting ready to leave. However, the group that returns contains those who are contaminated, the time bombs. If we don't follow them properly, it could be a problem. I'm just curious if we have any exact figures on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u27	Those figures have been reported many times. That group of six hundred, to which you refer, is the total of the five categories. A specific category, if I am not mistaken category 3, includes those who have already returned. The last number I heard of that was 117. Let's face it, some of them are currently locked up. The rest will be followed by the Local Task Force, the local security cells. The method of succession depends on the estimated danger, ranging from very close protection to regular police visits. I'm not gonna hang up on the details of that assessment. You'll understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u28	Of course, that's not our business, it's the security department's. Mr Minister, my point is that we absolutely must avoid keeping such boys and girls under the radar, causing many problems and allowing them to move on our territory undisturbed. This matter deserves absolute priority and also deserves follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u29	Minister, on 22 December 2015, the nuclear cabinet decided 20 measures for the police. They were included in the so-called Christmas agreement. One of these measures is the creation of a new Directorate of Surveillance and Protection, which also includes military personnel who wish to transfer from Defence to the new service. Since I am also active in the field of Defense, I have the following questions. In an exchange of views with your colleague Mr Vandeput this morning, we have already discussed this special service. The service would count 1 200 people, including 200 soldiers in the long run. Do you have an overview, through the selection procedure prior to the training of police inspector, of the statistics of the number of military personnel who have spontaneously switched from Defence to the police force each year in the period 2010 to the present? Should the military who want to move to the new Directorate of Surveillance and Protection in the future follow an additional training before they can make the transition? Have any concrete agreements been reached with the Defence Department on this matter? What is the concrete state of play with regard to the new Directorate for Surveillance and Protection? When will that force be able to start? Have there been spontaneous requests from military forces who want to switch to the new corps? When would you be able to clarify candidates' future prospects in the new force?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u30	Mr Yüksel, every year, a number of soldiers voluntarily switch to police forces. In 2010 it was 43; in 2011 it was 30; in 2012 it was 7 soldiers; in 2013 it was 17 soldiers and in 2014 it was 21 soldiers. I do not have any figures for 2015 and 2016. The military who will make the transition will have to undergo an effective additional training which will, however, take into account the knowledge and skills of the candidates. If they have already carried out a protection mission, training may only cover police procedures, which should be known. If we are talking about a soldier who joined the army, I am going to be very brief in the kitchen, the training will be of a slightly different nature. The content of the training and its concrete arrangements are currently being discussed with the Defence Office and the other members of the Steering Committee. At the moment it is too premature to communicate about it, as we still have to discuss it with the trade unions. The preparatory phase is still ongoing. When announcing the agreement on the core tasks debate, I also indicated that the Directorate for Protection and Protection would be a project for 2016-2017-2018. We're only at the end of 2016. The preparatory phase is therefore still ongoing. All aspects, both budgetary and logistical, as well as personnel management, training and selection procedures, will be examined in depth, so that the start of the new management can be made in the best conditions. Much of the basic texts have already been worked out. However, they still need to be discussed with the syndicates. The discussions on the statutes are important discussions. The smoothness with which the conversations are conducted will help determine the timing. Therefore, no precise date has yet been set for the entry into force of the new Executive Board. However, my services are already striving to recruit a first group of soldiers, who will take precedence over external candidates, in spring 2017. The priority will be to develop the DAB units at the nuclear sites and at the airport. For the time being, I have no knowledge of spontaneous military applications. However, I believe I have understood from the defense that there is a reasonable interest. From the moment all relevant texts are final, they will be communicated to interested parties as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u31	Minister, the new Directorate for Surveillance and Protection can play an important role in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian and also remove the pressure on both the police and the military. That was also the tone of this morning's discussion. In early 2017, the project should be operational, do I understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u32	In early 2017, we would do the first recruitments from the Defense Department for the new force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u33	So the Security and Protection Directorate isn't operational yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u34	No. We are dealing with preparations and some practical issues, such as the uniform and the statute. In the first trimester of 2017 we hope to do the first recruitments. We will give priority to military forces who want to happen, rather than to bet on external recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u35	Mr. Chairman, following the release of information on cybersecurity flaws on the morning of 5 October, AFCN issued a communiqué on the afternoon of 6 October stating that "the purpose of this audit was to assess the management of classified documents within the company. This exercise has helped to identify certain aspects to be monitored." For reading the audit, I believe that it is not simply a matter of "supervising" but of "correcting" elements, and as soon as possible! Why does the PSAN once again feel that it minimizes the importance of what is at stake? Furthermore, the AFCN communiqué states that "according to the company, a series of improvement actions have been undertaken since then". Do you think that it is the role of the gendarmerie to put itself, in this kind of crisis situation, on the side of the company at fault by legitimizing almost as such their reassuring speech? I am not trying to add any more, the content of the audit is sufficiently alarming. But do you think that citizens maintain confidence in the Agency when it communicates in crisis situations? I would also like to return with you to the comments made by the representatives of Electrabel. On the day of publication of the main findings of the internal audit, Electrabel was very reassuring: the flaws identified in 2015 had all been filled, no sensitive documents were found in nature. The next day, we learned that the plans of the Tihange power plant were circulating on the darknet. Do you not think that, by means of too positive communication, operators, as well as the Control Agency, lose a lot of credibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u36	Mr Nollet, the assertion that AFCN would minimize certain facts for the benefit of the organisations it controls is not based on any concrete facts. When AFCN paraphrases the operator's spokesperson in a press release, it should not be inferred that it is satisfied with the information provided or that it will not do anything to verify these statements, as explained in my answer to one of your previous questions. This type of release is purely informative and should not be drawn from it on the position of the PSAN or on how it works. For example, in the same press release, AFCN added that the Agency verifies that operators of nuclear facilities comply with their legal safety and security obligations in the form of regular inspections. Your questions about the trust of the citizen and the credibility of the Agency concern only one opinion and one feeling. Although the Agency is obviously listening to this type of feeling, there is currently no well-founded study to corroborate these subjective comments. The AFCN takes into account your reflections in the same way as those of any citizen concerned, in order to carry out its quest for continuous improvement. I am not commenting on Electrabel's communication under her own responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u37	Minister, my reply will not be long. I want to invite you, as well as the Federal Agency, because you say that it listens to our comments and suggestions, to compare the communication of the Belgian Agency with that of the French Agency. We will come back to that earlier because we have a big file on the falsifications that took place in France today. You can see that communication in crisis situations is quite different. Minister, you say it's purely informative. It is true that we can read it that way. I agree with you, but it is not felt in this way, as the sentences are at this point aseptized and repeated. And they are, from this point of view, rather in classical reassurance. I think the AFCN is not aware of the impact it can have on citizens. Yeah, she's covering up behind the operator. But you say that's not it. Yes, there may be other sentences. As for the tone used... I really invite the AFCN, who is going to read us, to do the comparison exercise. I won't be longer at this point because we have other files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u38	Mr President, here we are opening a very important dossier on the falsifications that took place in France. The question is whether this has an impact in Belgium as well. It was known that, according to a report released by the ASN on 23 September, 87 irregular parts were recorded on French nuclear power plants. With the report that the expert John Large has just published, we go further in precision. This report finds 107 irregularities but, above all, it denounces the fact that the carbon content in the pipes of cooling systems is far too high in 32 reactors in France. As a result, steel can crack or even break if ice water passes through these pipes. If, for example, an emergency cools in the event of an overheating in the reactor, the disaster will occur. What about Belgium on this specific point? Some argue that at least the Doel 4 and Tihange 3 plants could be affected because they used the same supplier. When was the last time this item was considered for each of our seven plants? What did this test give? Can you certify that none of our plants meet what 55% of French reactors meet? Moreover, a new Large report has just emerged that a similar problem also arises with the parts manufactured in Japan. Not all too carbon-loaded steam generators have been forged in the Creusot. Of the 46 suspects, 26 were manufactured by Japan Casting & Forging Corporation (JCFC), a Japanese blacksmith, AREVA's subcontractor. However, in Belgium, over the years, some steam generators from Japanese firms have been installed at our home, notably in Tihange 1 (three steam generators in 1995 if my information is correct) and Tihange 2 (three steam generators in 2001), but also apparently Doel 1 (two steam generators in 2010) and Doel 2 (two steam generators in 2004). Can you tell me which reactor has received what equipment (steam generator, part of tank, etc.) from or transiting through which Japanese firm? Can you also assure me that there were no steel components used in Doel or Tihange that were forged by JCFC, Japan Steel Works (JSW) or Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI), JCFC's parent company and that have the slightest problem? Can you tell me what the old and recent controls on the quality of steel components have been and whether AFCN has carried out destructive (or non-destructive) controls since the discovery of these falsifications? Finally, can you tell me if you have given any specific instructions on this matter? I turn now to the second question that you have attached, and I fully understand the logic in this direction. Since the date of submission of my first question which I have just developed, the ASN has confirmed that certain primary steam generator funds, manufactured by AREVA Creusot Forge or JCF, have an area of too high carbon concentration that can lead to lower than expected mechanical properties. The ASN concluded that the information provided by EDF was not sufficient and that additional checks should be carried out within three months, without waiting for scheduled stops. A total of 20 French reactors have therefore been shut down immediately. AREVA has been falsifying and falsifying its documents for decades and the ASN expects to detect further anomalies in other AREVA plants. It was the official message issued by the ASN's boss during his hearing in Parliament, which announced that he had seized the public prosecutor's office to inform him of these shortcomings, which were considered unacceptable by AREVA's management itself. Mr. Chevet, the ASN's boss, also announced that he should be looking at more than 10,000 files, that it was to be expected that nuclear parts would be discovered in France and abroad, and that this work could have major consequences for nuclear safety. Minister, how, in the face of such a situation and when Belgian power plants are also potentially affected, should the silence of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency be interpreted? What contacts did the AFCN establish with its French counterpart and when? Why has no communication been made in this regard? How do you explain such a passivity? I am hard on my point, but this is due to the scale of what has been revealed in France, the position taken by the ASN and the fact that our power plants are also potentially affected. More generally, do you not consider that it is more than time, as the French safety authority has just declared, to reflect on the whole chain of control in the nuclear sector? Neither AREVA's internal controls, EDF's controls, nor ASN's controls were able to detect these falsifications. How is our Belgian system, which is also so dependent on the goodwill of the information transmitted by the operator, so different from the French system and, above all, how can it be so reassuring that it does not initiate a reflection similar to that initiated in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u39	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the potential problem of the carbon content of forged elements in the primary circuits of Belgian nuclear reactors is closely monitored by AFCN and its subsidiary Bel V. Following the information published by the French safety authority, AFCN asked Electrabel already in July 2016 to make every effort to determine whether this problem applies to the primary circuits of Belgian nuclear reactors. The primary circuits of the Belgian nuclear power plants have a total of just over 200 forged parts, mainly supplied by the blacksmiths Creusot Forge and Japan Steel Works (JSW). About 15 forged pieces were supplied by the third large blacksmith, Japan Casting & Forging Corporation (JCFC). The problem in question concerns the presence in these elements of so-called positive macrosegregation zones whose carbon content exceeds the criteria of acceptability. This problem appears in the components provided by Creusot Forge and JCFC. These areas are potentially problematic because a high carbon level leads to less resistance of the elements to the risk of sudden rupture. Parts forged by the JSW blacksmith are excluded from the problem due to the use of a forging method excluding the presence of these highly macrosegregated areas A complete screening of the forged elements of the primary circuits of all Belgian reactors shows that, of these 200 primary circuit components, only three components of each of the 19 steam generators fall into the category potentially affected by this problem: the tubular plate and the two domes of each steam generator. This is not an evolutionary problem, so the measurements made during the manufacture of the parts are excellent indicators of the condition of these elements. Studies show that none of these Belgian elements have been forged by the same technique and supplier as the parts which appear to be problematic in France. The domes of the steam generators were forged either by Creusot Forge but using a different forging technique than that used in France, or by JSW. The results of the tests carried out on these parts during their manufacture show carbon levels that comply with regulatory requirements and fully acceptable mechanical properties, including in the so-called macrosegregation zones. Research on this problem has shown that the techniques chosen to forge the domes of our Belgian steam generators generate macrosegregation zones that are less carbon marked than the method used by French reactors. Ten of the 19 tubular plates were forged by JCFC. In this case, however, the size of the ingot at the time of forging limits the importance of the macrosegregation zone. At present, there is no evidence in the files or any measure suggesting that Belgian reactors are affected by this problem. As a result, AFCN did not provide specific instructions or request destructive controls on the components of Belgian steam generators. Nevertheless, AFCN continues to inform the ASN of the development of this case in France. She will not hesitate to communicate in case of irregularities as she did in the case of five parts of Tihange 2 concerned by the files marked by the Creusot Forge plant. The Agency has already communicated on the subject in August on its own website. AFCN organizes regular bilateral contacts with the French Nuclear Safety Authority, the ASN. Following the publication of several reports on the ASN website on April 18 and May 6, 2016, AFCN obtained additional information at a bilateral meeting in mid-May. The NSA and the AFCN also discuss this issue through telephone contacts. In addition, the Agency maintains bilateral contacts with other foreign security authorities where this issue is constantly addressed. The AFCN therefore does not remain passive on the subject at all. Belgian control of pressurized nuclear components is organised differently from the French method. In our case, the components are designed according to the rules of the American code ASME. Its requirements in terms of controls in the construction phase have been transposed to the Belgian complex. AIB-Vinçotte has been designated to independently monitor construction and confirm compliance with construction rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u40	Mr Minister, first of all, you do not address at all the second question of principle on the control mechanism and the chain of control, which are really problematic. I referred to this at the end of my second question, to have a debate in principle. We will come back to that later, I will not question you about it in the context of the reply. But I regret that you did not consider this question. More precisely, on the elements you are advancing, my first reaction is that I am surprised. I'm setting aside JSW, since you're saying these weren't a problem. But for the others, these are the same types of steam generators, manufactured for similar plants and which, in part (the JCFC plants), come from the same factory where they were forged. But in the same factory, for the same components, parts intended for Belgium and France would be forged differently? It's hard for me to understand. I wonder, and therefore I ask you, whether it is not simply because the standards or the references are different – the American, of which you are speaking, in comparison to the others – that for the same problem, we consider in France that we must close the plants for the time to do tests, and that we say that there is no problem, that we continue to monitor. I'm completing my question. In France, the reaction of the ASN is in particular the fact that the original documents were falsified. They're fakes. In the answer you give here, you say that you went over the documents and that these documents attest that there is no problem. Yeah, but what if at our house, too, these are fakes? Not because of Electrabel, but because of AREVA, Creusot Forge or JCFC. I have the documents here. We can see that the documents are false. That is, the documents that have been transmitted to the Security Authority do not correspond to the documents that have been found in the Creusot archives. That's where there's a difference. Obviously, if the PSAN is based on the documents that were transmitted to it in the original documents, there is no problem. But if we look for these same steam generators installed in Belgium in the original documents, and we discover that there are also two different documents, that we made a fake? The terms "false", "falsification", are the terms used by the French employer of nuclear safety. I'm telling you, I'm, and I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm not going to make you improvise, unless you have any elements to reprosecrate this framework. I'm still dubious. You have been precise, there are 19 steam generators concerned in Belgium, comprising three elements each. For some of them, it is not the same technique, but for 10 of the 19, it is the size that allows it but also another measurement technique. Here, too, I am concerned because if this is simply another measurement technique, sorry, if in France we have to stop the power stations for the time to do tests, to be careful, we should also do the same in Belgium. I don't know if you're going to react hot, add to and enlighten me, but I'm frankly dubious about double standards behind this question. Or I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u41	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor to put your question No 14249.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u42	Mr President, in order to be able to complete this committee and also allow my colleague to put his question, I propose that a series of questions be postponed or turned into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u43	Okay, Mr. Nollet. At your request, your question No 14249 is postponed. At your request, we turn questions Nos. 14250, 14344, 14345, 14346 and 14347 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u44	Minister, on Thursday, 6 October, it was found during a check that one of Tihange 3's emergency cooling circuits was not available. This situation is, to say the least, problematic, especially since it is not the first deviation found at this plant. What is the origin of this error? What has been put in place to ensure that this kind of error does not happen again? Has this new incident been classified on the INES scale? What is your reaction to this umpteenth incident that occurs despite everything that has already been put in place, especially thanks to your actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u45	Mr Nollet, as you say, on Thursday, October 6th, during a check, Electrabel found that one of Tihange 3's emergency cooling circuits was not available. This is a departure from regulatory requirements. The unit was at a standstill for review. An error in the handling of a valve during a test to verify the responses of different signals and alarms in the unit is the cause of the unavailability of the cooling system. Electrabel reported the discrepancy to AFCN and Bel V as soon as unavailability was found, i.e. on Friday, 7 October. The situation was immediately corrected. The emergency cooling system has since been fully operational. In addition, the AFCN is in the process of reviewing with the operator the actions to be taken. After analysis, this event was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. Next, AFCN and Bel V are in charge of monitoring all these anomalies. If they are of the opinion that it could indicate a non-compliance in a more general way, they also intervene at this level, as they did in the case of deficiencies in the safety culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u46	Minister, it is because this incident, which may seem less important than others, has been ranked at level 1 at the INES level that I am asking you, but you are not answering me. My hypothesis was based on a multiplication of incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u47	I think it is because of the possibility that this may be repeated in other circumstances. But there was no impact at that time on the health of workers. Repeating this human error was possible. They tried to warn her.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u48	I do not want to stress this incident in particular, there are still others that will be discussed later, but I still recall the comments that the Federal Agency made when it came to Parliament, in the Committee on Nuclear Safety, following the previous incidents. She said that in case of malfunctions, in the future, I quote, "AFCN will not hesitate to adopt a repressive approach in case of escalation". "Repressive" also meant financial sanctions. She explained that, as a first step, she did not want to do it, etc. In the event of further dysfunction, then, gradation would take place. Here, listing it at level 1 of the INES scale is not nothing, while there is no consequence for staff, etc. But I think that the AFCN must remember – and I know they are reading our work – the commitments that were made at the time, at the time of the discussion of the action plan on the culture of safety, because we know precisely that in Tihange many problems had already arisen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 14499 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 14419 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 14500 is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 14531 is withdrawn on the basis of Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u50	Thank you to Mr Nollet for making sure that I can speak today. This is an invitation, minister, more than a question. I invite you to come, at your convenience, according to your agenda, in the Dinaphi area (Dinant-Philippeville) of firefighters to see the pilot experience that we set up a year ago. We have decided to implement the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 proactively. We are a form of pilot experience for this file. Unfortunately, the many problems that arise from this pilot experiment would require an evaluation, making it possible to change things and, in any case, to take into account the various problems that we are facing. So it's an invitation. You are aware that the Royal Decree of 10 November determines the minimum conditions for the most rapid appropriate aid. It indicates what type of vehicle should be used for a chimney fire, for disenfranchisement, etc. It takes six men, for example, to get an autopomp out. If the zones have a transitional period until 31 December 2017 to comply with these provisions, as I have told you, the Dinaphi area, unlike many other areas, wanted to implement these criteria more than a year ago, via, in particular, its new dispatching. It thus constitutes a kind of laboratory for ascertaining the effects of these obligations and provisions. The conclusion is without appeal: in a rural area where firefighters are mostly volunteers, the effect of this royal decree is disastrous and counterproductive. Indeed, many firefighters, although close to an intervention and available, do not leave because the number of men available in their positions is insufficient to ensure a complete departure. These firefighters, demotivated and frustrated to see more distant services intervene in their place while they are available, end up declaring themselves less and less "available", resulting in the death of some posts, where there are no longer enough volunteers available to ensure departures. It is therefore a real vicious circle that is set up through this royal decree. It has direct consequences for the population and for security in the villages, constantly extending the time for intervention and reducing the number of "activated" firefighters and, therefore, the number of available posts. Minister, if the safety of the firefighters involved should remain a priority, and a minimum number of firefighters is required for each type of intervention, could we not, however, imagine an amendment to the Royal Order, so that this number is not required to leave, but to intervene, and therefore not to leave the barracks, but to the place of intervention? Firefighters available in two stations close to the intervention can then join the intervention and respond as quickly as possible. The first arrivals, while waiting for their colleagues, could already prepare the construction site, analyse the situation and secure the premises. Minister, there is an urgent need, the example of the Dinaphi area shows the disastrous effect of the application of the Royal Decree in its current version and it is therefore appropriate to act before 2018, so that the objective of the reform, which was to put more security for citizens, for firefighters, can be met especially in areas where volunteer firefighters constitute the bulk of the forces. If you wish, I invite you, Minister, on behalf of the President of the District College and Council, to come and visit our dispatch in order to be able to see the effect, in terms of availability, of fire services and therefore, in terms of safety, of the application of the provision of the Royal Decree. It is rather a wish for you to come to the site and carry out an evaluation together, rather than a need for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u51	Mr. Clarinval, I honor every invitation. I'm going to come to the field with a lot of fun. There are two aspects to your question. The first part deals with the transitional period until 31 December 2017 and the second part deals with the possibility of leaving emergency personnel from two different emergency stations. First, article 12 of the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 provides that relief zones shall be granted a transitional period until the said date. In order to satisfy the provision of this Order, during this transitional period, the zones must plan for the progressive implementation of the provisions of the Order. If the King had planned a transitional period, it was because it could prove useful and it would be presumptuous to want to dispense with it, especially for a relief zone which was currently suffering from a structural shortage of operational personnel. The first step would be to plan realistically and, based on planned recruitment, a gradual implementation of the regulatory standards that will have to be met from 1 January 2018. Secondly, the exception that you propose to introduce into the regulation is already there and its implementation is well framed. Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 provides for an exception where it is impossible to gather the minimum number of six persons for the self-pump within the time limit set by the zone. In this case, it is possible to simultaneously send two self-employers with four persons, one of whom is a non-commissioned officer, from two different positions. This exception remains valid after January 1, 2018. The circular of 3 June 2013 explains the reasons for this exception and its application: "It has been found that, mainly in rural areas working mainly with volunteer firefighters, a long period of time may sometimes pass before being able to bring together six people for the departure of a self-taught. In these cases, it is recommended not to waste time on the first departure. It is therefore authorised, in these cases, to send an autopompist with four persons rather than waiting for the minimum occupation of six persons to be carried out and risking a negative development of the situation. This departure, however, is conditional on the simultaneous departure of a second self-employer with at least four persons from another position." I would like to draw your attention expressly to the fact that areas cannot be organized structurally on the basis of this exception. Finally, the ministerial decree of 8 September 2014 sets the limits of the actions that can be carried out as long as only four stakeholders are present on the scene – in other words, as long as the second self-employer has not arrived at the sites of intervention. Respect for these different rules is of paramount importance for the safety of the personnel involved. In summary, it is for the Dinaphi area to take advantage of the transitional period to progressively reach regulatory standards by 31 December 2017. In addition, it will remain possible after 1 January 2018, in an exceptional and non-structural manner, to simultaneously send two self-taught posts with four persons when it will prove impossible to gather the minimum number of six persons within the time limit determined by the zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. We'll formalize the invitation. Thank you for your spontaneous acceptance. In the transitional period, the difficulty, of course, is that once the decision is taken to enter into the framework of this royal decree, it is difficult for some responsible staff members, for example for the top management of the area, to agree to go back, for fear that their responsibility will be called into question if problems arise at a later stage. In this regard, there is a psychological obstacle to a form of phasening or progressive implementation. There has been the will in us for good or bad reasons, to apply it directly and, therefore, it is a problem of personal responsibility of individuals that is being challenged here. In any case, I have no doubt that with this answer we can convince them that a step backwards on this aspect of things is not a question of their responsibility. Finally, I will examine in detail this exception which is contained in this circular and which, obviously, must be used more extensively in our area because, to my knowledge, it was not used either. This would probably already ease the difficulties, especially in the smallest posts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u53	Minister of the Interior, further to your reply to my March question on the implementation of the Act of 9 November 2015 on various provisions of the Interior and its consequences for residents residing in habitats that do not comply with the urban planning or housing rules, I would like to return to some of the questions raised by the application of the 1991 Act, as amended by the 2015 Act and interpreted by the circular of 22 December 2015. Although the duties resulting from provisional registration appear to be identical in all respects to those which pre-existed in the Royal Decree of 1992, it must first of all be observed that there is still some uncertainty as a result of the non-repealing of that Decree, which does not make the legislation in this field legible. Secondly, while the 1991 Act has "simplified" the appeals of persons to whom a municipality refuses provisional registration, in the sense that the ousted person no longer has the possibility to refer the matter to the Minister of the Interior, it has essentially "reduced" the rights of such persons by making it more difficult for them to have access to a simple and inexpensive remedy, namely the Minister of the Interior. With regard to freedom of establishment, a fundamental right of citizens and persons in precarious situations, it was important to provide for a prompt and inexpensive remedy. In the present case, the above circular refers to the judicial judge or the Council of State. Apart from the fact that these remedies appear to be more impressive a fortiori in the eyes of people in marginal situations, they represent a significant cost and procedural burden. Furthermore, as regards the indication of recourse to the Council of State, it is not said that the Council of State considers itself competent. In fact, when the municipality refuses to register a resident provisionally in the population register, it refuses to fulfil a legal obligation. In other words, the real subject-matter of the appeal is the lack of knowledge of a subjective right. In this sense, the circular appears to contain an error of law. It would indeed be the court of first instance and its chairman in interim proceedings, who would be competent, by application of the rules of ordinary law, since the 1991 law was silent on this point. As Nicolas Bernard points out: "The procedural upheaval introduced by the law of 9 November 2015 (on legal litigation) can be seen as a real step backwards from the point of view of the protection of citizens' rights and thus as a violation of the standstill." As a reminder, "this principle prohibits the public authority from adopting a regulation that would plan the level of social protections already reached, and the individual will only be able to avail himself of it in court. Only a particular justification and/or compensation in terms of law can justify this social decline." Finally, it should be noted that the above-mentioned circular of 22 December 2015 adds to the text of the 1991 Act when it states that "the indication "provisional registration" will also be mentioned on all certificates that the citizen requests". It is a true social mark that the circular establishes, in disregard of the protection of privacy. Minister, will the former provisions of the 1992 RA be explicitly repealed to ensure greater legibility of the interim registration regulations? Will the circular of 22 December 2015 soon be withdrawn and/or redrafted to comply with the law, both as regards the indication of remedies and the unlawful additions and contrary to the protection of privacy contained in it? Should the government not promptly consider amending the 1991 Act, as amended by the 2015 Act, with a view to developing a quick, simple and cost-effective remedy for citizens who are denied provisional registration by municipalities in the population registers? In the event that the government does not consider any rectification to restore the level of social protection of citizens, what would be the particular justification and/or compensatory measure for this reduction of rights? Mr President, I regret having been a long time, but that was my only question, unlike other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u54	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u55	Yes, yes. You can sort this out between you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u56	Yes, we will!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u57	Mr Gilkinet, concerning Article 16 § 2 of the Royal Decree of 6 July 1992 on the register of the population and the register of foreigners, which defines the principle of temporary registration in a dwelling, a draft royal decree to repeal this paragraph is being drawn up. Since the principle of provisional registration is now formally mentioned in the legislation, it is no longer necessary to maintain this paragraph, which has already been implicitly repealed by the Act of 9 November 2015, pending its effective repeal, the law prevails. A municipality which refuses to register a citizen provisionally violates the law. The regional authority, which exercises general control over the communes, must then monitor its actions and intervene. The complaints lodged by the citizens will therefore be brought to the attention of the competent regional ministers if the mayor of the municipality concerned does not wish to react to the mail of my services in order to regularise the provisional registration in question. The above circular of 22 December 2015 made it clear that "although the law provides that the municipality may only temporarily register persons who establish their principal residence in a dwelling contrary to regional regulations, they nevertheless retain their right to be entered in the population register." As regards the remedies against a possible refusal by a municipality to make a provisional registration, since this type of litigation does not concern the determination of the reality of residence, there is no remedy available to the Department of Internal Affairs. The citizen retains his or her general right of appeal to the courts or to the Council of State. Thus, an appeal may be lodged with the Council of State only against an administrative decision taken by an authority. As a reminder, the Act of 9 November 2015 laying down various provisions in matters of the interior, based in particular on the jurisprudence of the Council of State in this matter, only further determines the limits of the competence of the Department of the Interior as a remedy, namely the challenges relating to the place of residence, which, in the case of refusal of provisional registration, is not the case. No legislative changes are therefore envisaged in the matter of appeals. The reference to provisional registration on the population certificate objectively reproduces a real principal residence which is contrary to regional decree-making legislation on urban planning, spatial planning, safety or health. This refers therefore to a specific dwelling that the person concerned occupies as a principal residence and not to the person's social status. This does not therefore appear to prejudice a person's privacy. Nevertheless, in order to obtain any clarification on this matter, an opinion will be sought from the Privacy Commission and on the basis of this opinion, the circular of 22 December 2015 will be adapted if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u58	Mr. Chair, Minister, your answer brings me two reasons for satisfaction. Indeed, you will seek the advice of the Privacy Commission. I assume that this will be done without delay and that you will inform us of the answer that will be given to you. In any case, I am curious to read this opinion, because my opinion is different from yours. Indeed, in your opinion, there would be no involvement for people, even if it related to their home. On the other hand, I was pleased to learn of the repeal of the royal decree, which is no longer necessary. For the rest, the fact that you are not considering amending the law is problematic and, in my view, unsatisfactory. It seems to me that the legislator has taken measures which are contrary to the interests of the vulnerable persons concerned. I will therefore come back to you to know what follow-up you have given to the two commitments you have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 14529 will be converted into a written question. I forgot to tell you. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 14562 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u60	Minister, tests on some Doel 3 transmitters have revealed that the correct functioning of the differential pressure measurement system cannot be guaranteed in all circumstances. Can you tell me when these tests were performed and when the anomaly was detected? What is the cause of the problem? What could be the ultimate consequence of the malfunction of these transmitters? When was the last time these transmitters were analyzed? Had no defects been reported at the time? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? If so, at what level and why? Electrabel specifies that further additional analyses should be carried out during the annual maintenance of the current plant. What analyses are involved? Why such complementary analyses? Can you guarantee that this type of anomaly is not currently found in any of the other Belgian power stations? When was the last test in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u61	Mr Nollet, the first doubts about the proper functioning of these transmitters arose around mid-July 2016. As a result of these doubts, a programme of specific studies and tests was developed on transmitters of this type. This program has demonstrated that the origin of the problem is due to an error in the assembly of a limited number of transmitters that could call into question the leakproofness of the transmitters in an accidental situation. The transmitters in question are part of a system for measuring certain physical parameters of the reactor and triggering certain automatic actions to put the reactor in safe condition, such as automatic shutdown of the reactor if the parameters deviated from the expected values. In the present case, the chains concerned enabled, among other things, to trigger an automatic action in the event of a lack of water at the level of the steam generators. The ultimate consequences would have been zero if another event had caused a lack of water in the steam generators, since other measurement systems perform the same function and these were perfectly available. The introduction of these systems was preceded by a qualification programme. The periodic tests carried out on these chains have never shown a malfunction since the conditions for carrying out the tests did not allow the leakproofness of the transmitters to be tested. The above-mentioned doubts were generated, on the one hand, by a questioning by Doel plant staff as to how to mount these transmitters and, on the other hand, by information from a foreign plant which also encountered this type of problem. The occurrence was classified at level 1 of the INES scale due to a defect at the level of the defence in depth. It, control systems and safety procedures, centered on a succession of barriers, ultimately prevent the dispersion of radioactive substances. They consist of different levels of independent defence. A failure of one level does not result in physical consequences, as the next one compensates for the failure of the previous one. The additional analyses consist of checking the correct installation of all transmitters of this type present in the different Doel reactors. Finally, the necessary actions are under way in this plant to verify the proper functioning of each transmitter of this kind. AFCN and Bel V also ensure that information on potential misassembly has been provided to the operators concerned and to the Tihange power plant. They will ask that action be taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u62	Minister, I think your answer is very complete. However, I would like to know what is the last time these transmitters were analyzed prior to the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u63	I don't have the answer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u64	Can you then give me your answer later by e-mail? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u65	Mr President, Minister, during our last exchange on the subject in committee, it was on 16 October, you told me that the CWB was finalizing a screening of the documents which would be found on the darknet and which would relate to the Tihange site and, more generally, to the Belgian nuclear installations. I guess now this step is behind us. Can you tell us what the CWB has discovered about this on the darknet or on the net? What did they find on the darknet that is related, little or no, to our nuclear sites, not only what the press was talking about, but also other documents, other plans? Can you, in a second step, tell us what the analysis of the sensitivity of these documents by the PSAN gave us and whether measures have been imposed? In a third step, can you tell us whether the CWB had to and managed to have certain elements removed from the darknet? We know that one of the peculiarities of the darknet is to expose documents and then not to have them. This obviously leads to difficulties. If so, what are the elements? Can you reassure the citizen that nothing in connection with our nuclear sites is circulating on the darknet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u66	Mr President, Mr Nollet, first of all I would like to refer to the answer I gave to your previous question on the subject in committee on 19 October. In short, I told you that the AFCN could only begin its analysis of the documents circulating on the darknet once it had received the results of the CWB search. According to the CWB, it turns out that no sensitive documents were found on the darknet but that some such documents could have briefly been the subject of a leak. I speak to the conditional as long as the CWB has not found any evidence of any leakage. On the basis of the information provided by the CWB, the AFCN examines which documents can be used and assesses the confidentiality of these documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u67	I am pleased, minister, because we see that the analytical work begins, both with the CWB at first and then with the Federal Agency. It is a difficulty, I agree with you on this point, and I also said so in my question. The peculiarity of the darknet is also that the documents appear, remain, can be copied or taken, etc., and then disappear at times. So one of the difficulties is to say that now that we have updated them - fortunately, we have been able to count on the whistleblowers - the documents are disappearing. However, the work is done and that is what interests me. There were documents, about a year ago, the exact date is not known. Now, of course, I'm going to ask you later about the analysis made by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. It seems to me to be important. You didn't say anything about the origin of those documents discovered a year ago. Do they come from mafia? Beyond the question of whether the content is sensitive or not, its origin seems important to me as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u68	But this is part of the ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u69	Is that the AFCN?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u70	Yes, because the CWB says there may have been something on the darknet, but nothing at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u71	Then I'll ask you again about it. We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u72	Minister, my question may not be entirely specific. I was waiting for a document to be forwarded to me by your firm to refine the matter, but it was agreed that it would be sent to me by email, because you had not received it yet. Is it possible not to wait for the next committee to pass it on to me? Nevertheless, I ask you the question. During our last discussion on the subject, on October 19, you informed us that the AFCN had received all the accreditation documents, that it was busy analyzing them and that this analysis would be completed before the beginning of November 2016. As this deadline is now behind us, could you provide us with a copy of this analysis with respect to nuclear power plants, and give us the conclusions and the list of adjustments requested from the operator? In addition, and outside of this approval procedure, you announced that, as soon as possible – that is your terms – a verification would take place at the operator's headquarters on how to keep and process the classified documents. Can you clarify the findings of this urgent audit and provide us with a copy of the inspection document and requirements filed by the PSAN following this audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u73	Mr Nollet, the accreditation dossiers which set out the safety measures as is and to do, nuclear installation by nuclear installation, are highly sensitive and properly classified documents, categorised, I should say. The same is true of the analyses made by the AFCN. The legislation that protects these nuclear documents does not, of course, allow me to transmit to you the files, the analyses, or the conclusions. It does not allow me to tell you more than this: AFCN has now ruled on applications for authorisation by refusing to grant these approvals at this time, as protection systems currently stand, even if it takes into account the fact that significant efforts have been made by the operators. Of course, the procedure has not been completed. It continues in accordance with the regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u74	Minister, I agree that we are in a difficult situation. In any case, I would like to thank you for the transparency. However, AFCN refused to grant approval at this stage. This fact is far from neutral. Having said that, you know I'm still hungry. Indeed, I understand that documents must be confidential. And I agree with you that it is not within the framework of a set of questions and answers that the question should be explored. However, I would like to reflect with you – I know that you have a lot of respect for parliamentary work – on how to proceed in order to better understand the degree of seriousness. There is no question here of revealing elements relating to the location, among other things, because this could be problematic. This could be done, for example, in the context of a data room, a sub-committee. I repeat that I understand that this cannot be done in the context of questions and answers that give rise to a report, a broadcast, etc. The aim would be to understand better. In this case, I repeat, the Federal Agency refused to give the approval, which is not nothing. I would like to be able to discuss the form with you so that I can go a little further than just note that the approval was refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u75	Perhaps the Speaker could send me a letter informing me that a member wants a commission to be set up. Then I could see what I can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u76	Let's take some time to think about it. I agree with you that we must not improvise. I will consult with the chair of the commission to determine whether he or I should send a letter to the Speaker of the House. In any case, at this stage, your answer is enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u77	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u78	Based on the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u79	We will work on the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u80	You yourself. Perfect, so we'll find the modalities. I thank you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u81	Minister, you said a few minutes ago that you had a great deal of respect for field visits. So the minister's visit to the company EZB is the subject of a question from Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u82	I also have the greatest respect for Mr Nollet's follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u83	That's nice! The President is very attentive! I would like to come back to the matter following our many previous exchanges and your commitment, in our committee of 21 September, to deal personally with this matter because, like us, you considered this permanent situation unacceptable. Returning to the subject on 19 October, you announced that you were planning to visit Seneffe on 8 November in order to be aware of the situation. I would like to take note of the decisions you made following this field visit, mainly to put an end to this situation, which you, too, considered unacceptable. I would also like to know your position on the suggestion that I made in reply to our last exchange, which was aimed at making more responsible the owners of facilities working with nuclear energy by imposing a real bank guarantee deposit - which is another part of the question. We had already experienced a similar situation with Nordion becoming Best Medical in Fleurus and who left. I think it's the same situation with EZB. The deposit of a guarantee, at least mandatory in case of resale (we had the resale of Nordion to Best Medical and, in this case, from IBT which has passed to EZB in history), would allow to have a financial leverage in case of necessary intervention on your part. Do you share this suggestion? If not, what other structural measures are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u84	Mr Nollet, I actually went there yesterday. This visit allowed me to find that there is no more activity on the site and that there are currently no safety issues. EZB has repeated its intention to continue its research on the site, but, as you know, the dossier submitted to AFCN has been considered insufficient for the site, particularly on the question of technical and economic justification. In any case, AFCN and I want to avoid at all costs that the story of Best Medical Belgium repeats itself. That's right! It is therefore essential to ensure that the financial responsibility for facilities and waste is borne by EZB and that the company assumes this responsibility until the end. This clear message has been well understood. At our meeting, the company committed to introduce a new initial decommissioning plan by 31 December 2016. With regard to radioactive waste currently at UCL, AFCN has re-explained the regulatory provisions for its storage and EZB has undertaken to make a proposal for the disposal of such waste, in collaboration with UCL, on the basis of the available inventory. I saw this inventory, it must have been about 200 lots. UCL provided the list in June of this year. AFCN offered to facilitate exchanges between UCL and EZB. So, I really want to mediate. For now, all the elements are on the table, the measurements and the list are drawn up, they must now agree on what to do with the lots. If the radioactivity has reached an acceptable limit, the ULC may keep it. The solution of a bank guarantee deposit was indeed proposed by AFCN as part of the collaboration with ONDRAF. The AFCN can make suggestions but does not have the legal means to compel anything. As you know, it is the responsibility of ONDRAF, under the supervision of the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy, to ensure the financing of radioactive waste management and the costs of dismantling. An amendment to the ONDRAF regulation will therefore be necessary first and foremost and I undertake to discuss it with the two supervisory ministers, in order to see if any development is possible in this direction. I must add that my impression yesterday was to talk with serious people - not cowboys - who wanted to get in order with regard to regulations and our demands. I'm going to keep following this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u85	Minister, very sincerely, thank you. First, because you kept your commitment: you went to the field, in a situation that is not necessarily easy at the starting point. Then, because you have taken into consideration the proposal on the bank guarantee and you have committed yourself to discussing it and I know what that means in your mouth. I'm sure you sent the message to EZB. I'm a little more dubious about the fact that they received it well because the facts make me doubt. Since 2008, there has been no more nuclear activity, there is no more activity even and they tell us every time they will restart it. I hear that when you moved, and that's normal, you made a gesture by giving them until December 31st to present a new plan. I guess that's the last time. I guess we're not going to extend it again, as we did in the previous files. The AFCN will judge, you will judge the plan that will be tabled; I will not anticipate, but I would remind you that there has been no industrial activity since 2008. I don't know if you've seen a lot of people. You may have seen those responsible, but there are no more workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u86	No, for the moment, there is no production on this site. It's the European head quarter of a German company, but that's it. That is why I am going to evaluate this decommissioning plan and also their demand for the development of new activities. We also talked about the test box. They were very knowledgeable. They have further increased the capital of the Belgian company through their German shareholders. There are reassuring elements but I am the events because, like you, I'm worried about what's going on there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u87	Rendez-vous and janvier 2017!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u88	Minister, on 7 September last, Tihange 1 power plant was stopped following a problem that occurred during a civil engineering operation at the nuclear power plant site, aimed at the construction of a building to allow the rise of Tihange 2 operating elements. During our exchange on October 16, you informed me that the event's expertise was still under way because a "reasonable time" had been granted to the operator to produce an analytical document. I hope that now it is finished, that this document has finally been produced by Electrabel and that you are able to give us all the necessary information about the causes of this incident. In October, you found that the 16% gap was acceptable for this type of construction site and that it was probably necessary to look for other causes than this overconsumption of concrete. I was surprised by that. I think I told you, when I was gone. But what is the cause that led to this uplift of the slab? Who's responsible for what happened? Can we also know the extent of the damage and finally be fixed on the ability or not of the Tihange 1 plant to imagine a restart? If so, on what date? I would also like to go back to something I mentioned in my previous question, which you did not answer but which I did not mention in my written version. I'll make it clear. Behind the incident, is there not also a language problem with the workers who did the work and who did not understand what was happening? I had inserted this in my previous question. In rereading the answer, I saw that you did not respond to that dimension. That is why I come back to this, knowing that I had not quoted it in the written document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u89	Mr Nollet, on this last point, I will inquire. I don't know. The incident occurred when work was carried out on the long-term operation project for the Tihange 1 reactor. Planned improvements include the construction of a new building linked to existing buildings by galleries to house electrical cables and pipelines. During the construction of the supporting pile of one of these galleries, an injected collar was said to have been diverted and pushed over a concrete slab of the neighbouring building. Geotechnical surveys were carried out with a view to more precise knowledge of the soil characteristics on the damaged slab of the building. Analysis of these boreholes showed an average compaction of the embankment under the building and a weakly compacted area between six and seven metres deep. This analysis concludes that the land is a priori suitable for the circulation of the cement collar under the slabs of the building. Nevertheless, drilling was also carried out on the entire surface of the damaged slab and did not identify any trace of cement coulis under the slab. The explanation given at this stage by Tihange regarding the origin of the observed damage is a gradual pressurization of the ground as a result of the grouting jet activities which were aimed at strengthening the ground through a cement column injection. This progressive pressure is explained, among other things, by inadequate work phase which has the effect of complicating the healing of the soil. Tihange explains that this is a typical phase of German companies in charge of jet grouting activities. In order to consolidate the soil under the damaged slab, Tihange will undertake comforting work that consists of injecting cement columns by following a systematic grid of the damaged slab. The aim of this reinforcement is to further strengthen the floor under the slab and to ensure that it is maintained in normal operation as well as under seismic action. As with the damaged slab building, Tihange also plans to check the soil structure under the other Tihange 1 buildings in order to confirm their keeping in normal operation as well as under seismic action. The next three to four weeks will be devoted to the further analysis of the soil and the repair of the slab. Then follow the follow-up investigations in the other buildings in Tihange 1. Restarting can only be considered after these checks and the installation, of course, of the equipment removed in order to repair the damaged slab. AFCN and Bel V will take the time to review the studies and analysis conducted by Tihange. There's no schedule left for the moment. The unit will not be able to restart without the approval of the nuclear safety authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u90	Minister, your information is very important. Clearly, the phase was, at the very least, inadequate. In addition, they complement the one out of the 16% you brought me last time. You confirm that it is the company that carried out the work that is responsible for it. Except that, in your answer, which I will reread with rested head, you also suggest that a more important problem existed in terms of stability and the content of what lies below the surface slabs of the various power plants, in this case Tihange 1. Some parts are compact, others are not. That sounds kind of weird. This incident seems to me to reveal something more serious about the ability of these plants to withstand the shocks. I understand that work needs to be done. This is, of course, more serious than a mere incident resulting from a problem of concrete flow. This file is therefore not trivial. The power station is shut down, of course. My doubts are even deeper than when we were talking about a simple concrete problem. I will therefore continue to follow this file. The work will last three or four weeks. I wonder. Then there will be the inspections which will also take a few weeks. Of course, I fully agree that the Agency takes the time to assess and therefore cannot give a deadline. The information given to the market is that the plant will restart on 30 November. When you say that three or four weeks are necessary for the work and that the inspection will not take place in a quarter of an hour, the information in question – which is crucial in view of the closures in France, a problem that was more apparent to Mrs Marghem – corresponds to something impossible. This also disrupts the proper functioning of the market. That's another problem. On the other hand, I identify a more important problem than I thought of the detour of your answer. I'll come back to you later because we'll find more things in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u91	Minister, although Tihange 1 has been at a standstill since 7 September for the reasons we have just mentioned, the incidents clearly continue to occur. This time, a leak of 3 to 4 cubic metres of hydrochloric acid was observed on Monday, October 24 at around 2:00 p.m. Firefighters in the Hemeco area (Hesbaye, Meuse, Condroz) were called and found that the acid had fallen into the harvesting bins. What is the cause of this incident? Who is responsible? What are the consequences? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? What has been put in place to prevent such an incident from happening again? These are the classic questions I ask when this type of incident occurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u92	Mr Nollet, the event in question is a non-nuclear event that can occur in other non-nuclear industrial activities. It has been brought to the attention of the AFCN that emergency services – firefighters – have been requested to intervene on the site. The effusion occurred during a tank transfer operation. Hydrochloric acid erupted in another tank that was planned to recover it, but where some water was present. The contact of the two substances resulted in the release of toxic vapour. This incident did not affect the agents or the environment. No safety equipment was impacted by this incident. This non-nuclear incident does not require an INES assessment. The Security Authority does not follow this type of incident directly, but remains informed if necessary. It is the operator's responsibility to take the necessary actions to ensure that this does not happen again in the future, as in all companies that experience such events.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u93	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 14687 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 14708 is considered to be withdrawn pursuant to Rule 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 14721 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 14732 is being postponed, as is Question No 14, by Mrs Fonck, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Questions Nos 14744, 14745, 14747 and 14748 by Mrs Pas are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 14783 will be converted into a written question. The combined questions Nos 14845 by Mrs Gerkens and 14881 by Mr Vanden Burre are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 14446 is considered to be withdrawn pursuant to Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u95	Mr President, the cost of answering a question is EUR 300. Perhaps there is a need to consider how to respond in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic533x.u96	We will report this to the Conference of Presidents.
