ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the government agreement states that the government would gradually increase minimum social security benefits and social assistance benefits to the level of the European poverty threshold. Priority shall be given to benefits for persons with the highest risk of poverty. The social benefits associated with some social benefits will be taken into account in comparison to the European poverty standard. What social benefits, coupled with some social benefits, will be taken into account in the comparison with the European poverty standard? Can you give a list of the social benefits and the average amount involved? Can you indicate, for each social benefit, how many people, in the case of counting the social benefits mentioned above, would still benefit from raising the benefit to the level of the European poverty threshold? It is important to ensure, Madam Secretary of State, that the increase in benefits leads to an improvement in the financial situation and certainly not to the maintenance of the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, the European poverty standard is the limit calculated according to a European accepted methodology, namely the so-called SILC methodology, the SILC figures. De facto, it draws on an annual survey of the FPS Economy, which presents an extensive questionnaire to approximately 6,000 families. This questionnaire shall contain codes which form the basis for the processing of the statistical data. These SILC figures, the survey on income and living conditions, relate to the 2013 revenue year and were processed in the course of 2014. That is why we are talking about SILC-2014. In particular, the poverty threshold for each country is set at 60% of the median of the standardised net disposable household income, i.e. the gross income of all family members, minus taxes and social contributions. This gross income consists of very diverse income components, such as pay, child benefit, rent premiums, IVT and school allowance. This disposable income needs to be standardised, i.e. made comparable by taking into account the number of family members. This is not easy by sharing the total family income available by the number of family members. After all, because people living together can share some expenses, two people together need less than the double income of an adult living alone. It's called the scaling advantage. Besides, a child doesn't count as an adult. In other words, an additional adult is not counted for one unit, but for a half, and children under 14 years of age are counted as 0.3 of an adult unit, according to the OECD equivalence scale. For a family with two adults and one child, the net disposable income is thus standardised by dividing by 1.8, i.e. 1 plus 0.5 plus 0.3. All net available income from the sample shall be standardised in this way. Afterwards they are ordered from low to high and then, taking into account certain weights, the median is determined. 60% of that median is the so-called poverty threshold. So we also notice that there are multiple poverty limits, depending on the family composition. For one adult that limit is EUR 1 085 per month. For a single person with two children aged 8 and 15 years, the limit is 1 085 euros times 1.8 euros, i.e. 1 953 euros. This is how the calculations are made. The explanatory memorandum thus shows that the SILC method focuses on income, on incoming cash flows, and not on expenditure. For this reason, the results are in fact not suitable for the deduction of social benefits. Thus, revenue is used, not expenditure. In order to apply a scientifically based correction, I believe that we need a more useful method. To this end, reference budgets could be used. This is a calculation of what income a family should have, depending on its composition, in order to obtain the goods and services that make it possible to live decently. This method was developed at the University of Antwerp and Thomas More Hogeschool. To give a complete list of all social benefits is not desirable, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber concerning figures tables for oral replies. Social benefits are, as a rule, corrections for certain expenditures. Reductions are granted for the consumption of water, electricity, fuel oil, the use of public transport, the granting of medical care, etc. The cost of a particular type of family not enjoying social benefits is therefore reduced by the amount of these social benefits. In this way, an adjusted reference budget is obtained. Research has shown that these social benefits vary according to family composition. That goes from about EUR 98 per month for a single to around EUR 180 for a couple with two children. Those are the calculations we made. A comparison with the reference budgets has shown that the housing situation plays a decisive role in the additional amount needed to live decently. The rent for a person who rents on the social housing market is significantly lower than the rent on the private housing market. For example, for a single person, the difference is about 375 euros. That's cheaper than the median on the private rental market. The study has thus shown that, even taking into account the social benefits, current benefits are often not always below the necessary income to live decently. There will have to be an increase, possibly over several years, in order to move to the lower financial limit. That is why I would like to consult with the government in the coming months and, if possible, submit a proposal in the context of the budget format for 2017, 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, it is indeed important that we proceed quickly if we want to implement the coalition agreement. There is also a need to look quickly at what we will mean by social benefits. You say that the amount varies from EUR 98 for a single person up to EUR 180 for a couple with two children. That is, of course, a different case on a case-by-case basis. In the end, however, we will have to increase the overall level of benefits. It is not possible to give more or less EUR 20 per particular case. We must give priority to those who live below the poverty line. That is a lot of people, for example families with two children who receive a living wage or those with children who receive unemployment benefits. These benefits will need to be increased effectively. I'm glad you're behind that. I myself have also tabled a legislative initiative to raise benefits above the poverty line. We will have to fight together to ensure that the budget is gradually released so that the promise we made in the coalition agreement is implemented. However, we must be ambitious in this respect. Just looking at the welfare envelope will certainly not be enough, because that will not make it. You also know, Madam Secretary of State, that more will be needed to get people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u4	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10264 by Mrs Lanjri on social corrections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u5	If I can get the answer now, I have no problem with that question being converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u6	Let me give you the answer and the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u7	When a question is turned into a written question in committee, an e-mail is requested to be sent to the secretariat of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u8	Thus, the answers to Ms Lanjri's and Ms Lijnen's questions will also come to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u9	Question No 10306 by Mrs Nele Lijnen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u10	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, on 10 March last I had the opportunity to take part as Mayor of Brussels in a conference entitled "Declaration of the mayors of the fight against child poverty: cities and municipalities are mobilizing". The aim was to share our local experience in this area. You had, moreover, inaugurated this meeting, even if we did not meet. In this regard, I would like to recall Nelson Mandela's committed quote, which invites us to the struggle: "Winning poverty is not an act of charity; it is an act of justice. (...) Poverty is not natural. It is generated by men and can be defeated and eradicated by the actions put in place by men." Indeed, child poverty is a harsh reality that is gaining a little more ground every year. In our country, according to the National Plan to Combat Child Poverty, the risk of poverty is significantly higher among very young children. Various factors influence this phenomenon: the composition of the household (35.3 per cent of single-parent families face poverty), the participation in the work of parents (71.1 per cent of children raised in a family with little or no work below the poverty line) or whether or not children are from immigration. Madam Secretary of State, in view of the topics discussed at this conference, what new means are available to cities and in this area? What new initiatives are you considering in this regard? How do you intend to articulate your various actions in order to develop a genuine policy to combat child poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u11	Madam President, Mr Kir, first of all I would like to thank you for your participation in the panel of mayors on our day of studies devoted to the declaration of the mayors against child poverty. Meanwhile, 170 mayors from all over the country signed the declaration. This reflects a widespread provision among local authorities to reduce child poverty through concrete measures and actions. The numbers you are quoting about poverty among single-parent families and families with no working income are evidence of the importance of giving priority attention to these families. Child poverty is also one of my priorities within my competence to fight poverty. It is characterized by different dimensions and therefore requires an integrated strategic approach with which various actors are involved. Through the "Children First" initiative launched in 2014, I support the creation and operation of local consultation platforms for the prevention and detection of child poverty. Within this platform, consultation and collaboration are organised between various local actors, such as schools, nurseries, anti-poverty associations, sports clubs, etc., in order to detect problematic situations and implement concrete actions. The means that I have released this year make it possible to provide financial assistance to 47 concertation platforms, 40 of which are supported by CPAS and 7 by ASBLs. Child poverty is a responsibility of all levels of government. For example, I have taken the initiative of drafting a second National Plan to Combat Child Poverty with the collaboration of the Regions and the Communities. An administrative working group composed of the competent administrations of the federal authority and the federated entities has begun its work in order to draft a first draft. In developing the Plan, stakeholders will also be widely consulted and my administration will follow up. As far as the policies of large cities are concerned, child poverty is an important priority. It is manifested by the declaration of the mayors against child poverty, widely received in our country, the study day of 10 March during which many good practices were exchanged, a recent call for projects for which innovative projects involving families in poverty in cities have been subsidized, an ongoing study by the universities of Ghent and Mons on poverty in six cities paying particular attention to child poverty, etc. A study of the universities of Ghent and Mons is under way on poverty in these cities, paying particular attention to child poverty. At European level, through the Federal Policy on Large Cities, we have succeeded in giving an important place to child poverty on the urban agenda. Within the framework of the European Urban Agenda which will be finally launched on 30 May in Amsterdam by the Dutch Presidency of the European Union, Belgium will coordinate with France one of the four pilot themes, namely urban poverty. It was agreed that the fight against child poverty should be treated as a priority sub-theme. A partnership of five countries, six cities including Courtrai, two regions including the Brussels-Capital Region and a series of European networks form the steering committee for this theme. The aim is to draw up proposals in order to better integrate the fight against poverty and child poverty into European regulations, but also at the level of European funds, so that better instruments and greater means are made available by Europe for the fight against poverty. Moreover, the policy to combat poverty must also be strengthened by Member States, Regions and cities through the exchange of experience and the conclusion of common strategic objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u12	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. However, I would like to go back to one element in order to obtain more precise information on this subject. You mentioned the local platforms for combating child poverty, stating that 40 platforms were supported by CPAS and 7 by NSOs. To what extent do you intervene in these platforms? Are they intended for the operation of the said platforms? Are they intended to help associations and CPAS in this struggle? As a mayor, how can I, in collaboration with the President of the CPAS and the associations in my area, apply for this type of local action?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u13	Mr Kir, there are criteria. In addition, large and medium-sized cities will participate in this system. This system is really local. It is a federal subsid but for a local initiative, aimed at coordinating all people in a Community or in a commune, and at organising the fight against child poverty. We clarified the criteria; it was a request from, for example, a big city like Ghent. At first there were organizational problems, but today when a request is made, the Social Integration PPS analyses the criteria. It is then possible to obtain a subsidy based on the criteria to be met as a municipality or as a CPAS. Those who wish to do so may ask, for example, for action such as the platform. If you meet the criteria, you can send an application to the PPS Social Integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, I would like a document with the circular. Could I receive him and the members of the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u15	I will ask the administration to have information on how to proceed to access the platform system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u16	Question No 10530 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u17	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, last year, there were some difficulties in setting up the Grand Cold Plan in Tournai. Indeed, for years, it was the Saint-Jean barracks that welcomed the homeless during the night in the winter season. Last year, however, as the barracks were requisitioned to accommodate migrants, homeless accommodation in the BM9 block of the barracks was not possible. A solution had to be found urgently by the City of Tournai, via its CPAS, which provided a building for the homeless. This solution was taken because of a blatant lack of response on your part, despite the promises made at the time by the government. National Defence had promised that the homeless would be accommodated at the Saint John barracks as a result of exchanges with the Urban Social Relay in Tournai. Furthermore, on 6 October 2015, Mr.Franken assured me that the problem of hosting the homeless in Tournai for the Grand Cold Plan was on his agenda and that he had raised this issue with you before the decision was taken on the assignment of asylum seekers to the barracks. The note of the Council of Ministers of 7 August 2015 also stated that a solution would be sought between your cabinet and those of MM. Franken and Vandeput. Madam Secretary of State, the building provided by the Tournai CPAS to house the homeless last year as part of the Grand Cold Plan is now on sale as part of the restructuring of the Centre hospitalier de Wallonie picarde (Chwapi). Another solution must therefore be found and, as the saying goes, "governance is to foresee". I therefore believe that it is more than time to act. Madam Secretary of State, my question will be very simple. Will you and the government abide by the promises made last year? Will you be proactive in finding a solution for housing the homeless during the next winter in Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u18	Madam President, Mr Delannois, we recently had an opportunity at the 3rd session of the 54th Parliament (question 6988) to exchange views on the reception of homeless people during the winter period. As on this occasion, I would remind you that the local winter reception in Tournai is not within our remit, but that we support front-line reception in the following five major cities: Ghent, Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Brussels. Within this framework, we allocate grants for an amount of EUR 50 000 per city. In addition, we also support second-line reception in Brussels. In this particular case, I am providing more than EUR 1 million to the ASBL Samusocial for the reception of up to 300 homeless people per night during the winter period. According to my information, in the Walloon Region, the Grand Cold Regional Plan is the reference system for the reception of homeless people. In the city of Tournai, the Social Relay of Tournai is the coordinator. I can only suggest that you turn to these actors because, given the exceptional size of the asylum crisis at this time and the difficulties in finding appropriate places of reception, it seems to me logical that my colleague, Secretary of State, has remained in consultation with as many entities as possible. This does not change anything at the level of competence with regard to the organisation of winter reception for the homeless. On the other hand, with regard to the reception of asylum seekers, I would suggest that you address my colleague in charge of this matter, Mr Franken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, I think you have not understood my question very well. Mr Franken, last year, communicated to us his intention to set up migrants in the barracks, while specifying that a solution will be found for the homeless in Tournai. In your answer, you mention everything you do elsewhere except in Tournai. Promises have been made by Mr Franken. He also quoted you. In this case, we blow the hot and cold, but the hot is rather the political hot. Indeed, after Mr. Francken and yourself, perhaps we should also add Mrs. Marghem who has consistently pointed out that solutions would be found and that we are certainly not going to charge the City of Tournai. I simply hear that it has always been only promises and words. You don't care what happens next year, in any case in relation to the federal government, on Tournai. As usual, I think I should look for a solution on my own rather than expect an initiative from you. It is really very unpleasant to see that you are not honouring your promises, as if you had never said anything. Do you realize that local authorities are becoming increasingly financially suffocated? You systematically add a diaper by making promises in the air. I take note of this and regret it of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u20	Maybe you should interview Mr. Franken, too. Anyway, that's what I would do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u21	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, according to a recent statistical study by the SPF Economy on poverty in Belgium, almost 6% of Belgians are facing a state of material deprivation due to lack of sufficient income. This lack of resources leads these households into a negative spiral in which children are often the main victims. For example, 82.5 per cent of children in households with physical deprivation are not eligible for annual holidays, 62.5 per cent of them do not have a room to study, while two thirds of them cannot participate in regular leisure activities. Finally, 31.5 per cent of children from these families would not even have meat or fish on their plate on a daily basis. In order to combat the precarious situation of extreme concern, the Government, in consultation with the federated entities, has expressed its intention to draw up a national plan of action to combat child poverty, which you mentioned in your reply to my colleague Emir Kir. Madam Secretary of State, do you have more precise data on the number of children currently affected by this extreme precarious situation in Belgium, as well as on the development of this statistic in relation to previous years? Is there a timetable specifying the different deadlines for the drafting of this Plan to combat child poverty? If so, when do you expect to be able to present this document?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u22	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, the National Plan to Combat Child Poverty, which the various administrations are in the process of drafting, provides for the development of a monitoring of the child's poverty and well-being. In this way, we can monitor the different aspects of children's and young people's lives and take targeted action. The European Union survey on income and living conditions for 2015 indicates that children are at higher risk of poverty than other age groups. Thus, 5.8 per cent of the Belgian population would suffer severe multiple deprivations, while this figure amounts to 7.8 per cent for those under 18 years of age. Within these standards, investigators are considered to be severely deprived if they miss four points of a list of nine points per month because of financial reasons, including the inability to pay rent, to heat their house properly, to pay unexpected costs, to eat meat, fish or a protein-rich alternative every other day, to take one week of vacation a year outside their home, to buy a private car, a washing machine, a colour television or a telephone. I will send you details of the data from all Member States and the evolution between 2004 and 2014. The drafting of a second National Plan to Combat Child Poverty is under way. With my approval, an administrative working group has been set up. It is composed of the competent administrations of the federal government and the federated entities. The full text of the information report on the necessary cooperation between the Federal Government, the Communities and the Regions on the common approach to combating child poverty will play a central role in the development of the action plan. This report was adopted at the end of February 2016 in the Senate plenary. The text of the information report was submitted by my administration on 1 March to the members of the administrative working group, which was responsible for drafting the concept of the National Plan. An initial roadmap for the development of the National Plan to Combat Child Poverty, drawn up by the Administrative Working Group, was based on the presumption of an earlier publication of the information report on the need for cooperation between the Federal Government, the Communities and the Regions on the common approach to combating child poverty. In view of the delay, I entrusted my administration with the implementation of a new planning. The Administrative Working Group is planning a further meeting tomorrow, 27 April. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It will be beneficial to re-read in the reply the details of the deadline and the willingness, in particular the federated entities, you mentioned, to make progress in the coming months towards the implementation of this plan absolutely necessary in view of the figures set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u24	There is the report of the Court of Auditors. Have they ever sent you a first part? They do this: they make a first report, and according to the reaction of the ministers or secretaries of state concerned, they draw up their conclusions. Have they already made such progress on the evaluation of the previous Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u25	I don't know. I know it's really recent, but for the rest, I have to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic393x.u26	Question No 9268 by Mrs Vanessa Matz is transformed into a written question.
