ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u1	The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question dates from March. The day before yesterday this theme was re-examined and there is news to report. In its response to the 2015 refugee crisis, the European Commission launched a proposal to establish a European Border and Coast Guard, EBCG. The aim of the proposal is to give more powers, material and staff to the existing organisation for the monitoring of the European borders, Frontex, and to strengthen it further by combining existing resources from the Member States. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us a little bit more about the initiative? Last Monday, the competent committee of the European Parliament gave the green light to its creation. In your view, within what time limit can an agreement be reached effectively between the Member States and Parliament? Frontex is often criticised for its many shortcomings. Do you believe that the EBCG can provide an adequate response to Frontex's childhood diseases? We are talking about Europe and about many voices and opinions. This new instrument will also depend to a large extent on the resources and staff of the Member States. How can we achieve a balanced distribution of burdens? How can the differences in standards best match? Compared to the original design, this draft retains a slight nuance regarding the invasion clause. In the original proposal, the European Commission was empowered to decide whether or not to intervene on the territory of a Member State, whether or not it agrees. The invasion clause seemed to me to be a strength of this new instrument. In the final draft, this has been replaced by a qualified majority vote. There has been a slight shift in that direction. Mr Secretary of State, is this a reinforcement or an improvement? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u3	Mr President, Mr Luykx, the creation of a European Border and Coast Guard is the key element in the package proposed by the European Commission on 15 December with a view to further implementing the European Agenda on Migration. Following the priority given to asylum and return policy in previous months, this package had to be the final part of the European response to the migration crisis, which remains one of the biggest challenges the EU has ever faced during these winter months. The EBCG proposal is primarily aimed at strengthening and extending Frontex's mandate, but it is much more than that. Border management, so far primarily the responsibility of the individual Member State, should become a shared responsibility between Member States and the EU, based on a European developed integrated border management strategy. The reinforced agency, together with the competent national authorities, should form the European Coast and Border Guard, with the European level playing an increasingly important role as Member States can or wish to assume responsibility for their part of the external border. Member States will have to make a mandatory contribution to the European reserve of border guards and, in extreme cases, may even be imposed by the Agency on certain actions. Negotiations are currently at an advanced stage. On 6 April an agreement was reached on a general approach by the Council across the text. In the meantime, the European Parliament has taken the matter to heart. The rapporteur, Mr Pabriks, of the LIBE committee has already published his report. This shows that the positions of the Council and the European Parliament are more or less similar and give rise to smooth trialogue negotiations. It was also approved earlier this week, namely Monday, in the European Parliament's committee. Belgium supports the objectives and level of ambition of the European Coast and Border Guard as proposed by the European Commission and wishes to make rapid progress on this dossier. I have always stressed in the various European fora the importance of strict and correct control of the European external borders. A system is only as strong as the weakest link, and I believe that the proposal to create a European Border Guard can be an important step towards regaining control over our external borders. I see that there is also great support for this proposal from my fellow MEP, and I hope that the reinforced agency will be operational this year. I expect this to start in the autumn. Frontex is currently very dependent on the Member States. The new agency will be given enhanced powers and a broader mandate within the concept of integrated border management, strengthening primary responsibility for border control by Member States with a European layer. The newly formed agency will receive additional resources and an increased budget, EUR 288 million. Within its mandate, it will be able to carry out the following tasks. Firstly, an enhanced risk analysis through the creation of a monitoring and risk analysis centre for better information exchange. Secondly, the deployment of a rapidly deployable pool of 1 500 border guards for RABIT operations. Thirdly, the right to intervene if a Member State does not take the measures imposed by the Management Board following a vulnerability analysis, or if a sudden disproportionate pressure arises at the external borders of a Member State. In such cases, a Member State may be required to accept measures taken by the Agency, including the deployment of teams. Under the current mandate, Member States can only refuse to provide assistance to guest officers when they are faced with an emergency situation that is affecting national security. Fourthly, the integration of national coastguards into the new agency, in so far as they are responsible for border control. The tasks of the European Fisheries Control Agency and the European Maritime Safety Agency will be aligned with those of the new Agency. These synergies should promote effective border management. Fifth, greater control on return. By setting up a return office, the new agency will be able to better assist Member States in return operations. Sixthly, more resources for cooperation with third countries. Finally, and this is the third answer: that is correct, but the agency's permanent staff will be more than doubled and it will be able to purchase equipment and equipment and deploy it immediately in border operations. In addition, the Agency will be able to use different reserve pools of experts, both border guards and return experts, and technical equipment. We work very well with the people of Frontex and they know that they can always count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply. This initiative took a fairly rapid course according to European standards, namely from 15 December to an approval the day before yesterday. Some of your fellow Members are a little more optimistic and think that the entry into force will be possible by this summer. You are talking about autumn, and that seems to me to be a realistic approach. As you said, the strength of this story lies with the weakest link. In doing so, means and instruments are allowed to intervene where the weak links are. If intervention is required in Greece, it can and can be controlled at these borders, including by the other European partners. This seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers' 10740 has already been postponed, and since Mrs Smeyers cannot be present today, her question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, a foreigner who is in our territory, but who does not meet the conditions for his stay, is notified of an order to leave the territory, in any form whatsoever, within a specific period of time. In response to a parliamentary question that you were asked recently, you had specified the orders to leave the territory that had thus been issued. In the face of this notification, the individual is then supposed to leave the Kingdom by his or her own means or be assisted by a return programme. However, if he chooses not to follow up on this order to leave the territory, he may, in the course of routine checks, be arrested by the police, be kept in a closed centre or even be returned to the border, supervised by the police. In the event of failure to comply with the time limit laid down by the order to leave the territory, the legislation in force at Schengen level allows the foreign national to be affected by the measures I have just mentioned. However, if it does not execute or returns immediately after being returned to the border and is subject to re-checking, what measures are taken? Are you often confronted with this problem? If so, have you made a breakdown by nationality of the persons concerned? What measures are you taking to ensure that this order to leave the territory is properly executed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u7	Mr President, honourable Member, returning to the Schengen area is no longer possible since the individual has been reported internationally in the Schengen Information System (SIS). However, it is possible that due to errors or actual illegal migration, the reported person will be able to return. I can't rule it out. But normally these people are reported in the SIS. The Office of Foreigners does not have any data on this subject. To say that after the repatriations the expelled persons are back in Belgium a week later corresponds to an urban legend. This happens very rarely. This happens when you are confronted with people who have been evicted. But such cases are uncommon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u8	Mr President, Secretary of State; given the global circumstances that all countries are currently going through, is there not a more customary nationality because of this? As you said, this does not happen often, but we do not have figures and we have no specific indication of the nationality of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u9	We do not have the figures at the moment. But it is true that this kind of information is necessary, which is why I am currently discussing this issue with my administration. Indeed, it is always better to rationalize things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u10	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, the current practice of the Foreign Affairs Office with regard to applications for renewal of residence permits on the basis of work has for some time caused difficulties and caused difficult and irrefutable situations for some foreign workers. These situations show how necessary and urgent it is to complete the transposition of the Combined Authorisation Directive in order to resolve the problem definitively. Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 aims, inter alia, to introduce a single authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State. The Directive should have been fully transposed into Belgian law by the end of 2013. If I am right, Belgium and Slovenia are currently the last two states that have not fully implemented the directive. On 20 November 2015, the Council of Ministers approved a memorandum from the Minister of Work and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on the transposition of this Directive. There is also a basic agreement between the regional and federal authorities on the procedure for issuing a combined document, but it still needs to be finalised in the Consultation Committee before the legislative texts can be submitted to Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, in this context I have the following questions. Will DVD, pending adoption of a combined procedure, adapt its administrative practice to try to meet the objective of this Directive as far as possible? When can we expect these legislative texts in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, at the moment a foreign national wishing to work in Belgium must have a work permit issued by the regional government and a residence permit issued by the Foreign Affairs Office. These two authorisations are temporary and should be renewed and monitored annually. These two different procedures create practical difficulties, especially because they are not coordinated. Moreover, they are no longer in conformity with European law. In particular, I refer to the Single Authorisation Directive, which should have been fully transposed into Belgian law by the end of 2013. Because of the complexity of the powers between the Federal State and the Regions, which are responsible for the work permit, this has not yet happened. This shows once again how complicated the current situation for migrant workers is to come to work legally in Belgium. An in-depth review of economic migration policy is therefore under consideration. You yourself once announced this in a policy letter. This reform is particularly necessary because a relaxation or clarification of work permits can reduce social dumping and pressure on asylum applications. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my concern, particularly with regard to the supervision and employment of asylum seekers and recognised refugees. I have some questions. What is your view on the current economic migration policy? Do you see that the clarification of work permits can reduce social dumping and pressure on asylum applications? What is the state of play with regard to the adoption of a combined procedure? What other measures are being taken to make policy more transparent and clearer? How do you see the employment of asylum seekers and recognised refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you must pay attention. It is apparently assumed that all applications for renewal of the authorisation to stay on the basis of work would create problems. The Federal Ombudsmen's report said something about the issue. There is absolutely no generalisation possible. Belgium is one of the fastest countries in the world to obtain a residence permit based on employment. I refer to the operation of the Flemish employment service. One or two years ago, a major Deloitte study compared all OECD countries in terms of speed for the delivery of work permits. Both the Walloon and the Flemish labour permits service came out very well. So it is not true that there is a real problem, which does not mean that there will still be problems in some cases. That cannot be avoided, of course. Since 2008, the Foreign Affairs Department has had a service of Economic Migration, which ensures rapid treatment of applications for residence for foreign workers and an extension of their license. A decision is currently being taken within the two working days, with the exception of certain nationalities, for which a safety investigation is required. In many cases, DVZ already provides for an additional period of residence on top of the expiry date of the work permit, so that foreigners have as little difficulty as possible in renewing their residence permit on the basis of work. In 90% of cases there are no problems. Only a handful of cases is still problematic. The responsibility for this lies with both the regions, which sometimes have too long an appeal procedure, and with the employer, who only late applies for an extension of the work permit. An appeal against the issue of the work permit shall not have suspensory effect on the residence permit. However, it is not my competence as Federal Secretary of State to intervene in the policy of the Regions on the handling of appeals. I am in the process of transposing the Combined Authorisations Directive. Our procedures will be adapted, as Europe requires. The objective of the directive is slightly more complex than you propose. DVD cannot simply adapt its practice in order to meet the objective of the Directive as far as possible. The Directive provides for a single point of contact, where the application for a residence permit and an employment permit is made. There is also a unique point of contact which informs the final decision on this authorisation. I have good news because I submitted the draft transposition of that directive to the Council of Ministers on 20 May. It's now with the Council of State for advice. Then, of course, I will present the texts in the Chamber and we will be able to enter into the debate on the substance. At present, the competent authorities, the federal government for access to and residence on the territory and the regions for access to the labour market, are limited in their possibilities. They make all useful information available to employers and employees on their websites. An asylum seeker may work with a work permit C after four months from the application for asylum. A recognised refugee shall be exempt from holding a work permit. I am therefore very much in the process of transposing that directive. We're too late, that's true, but it's not just me. We've certainly gotten through it. That has had a lot of groundwork, a lot of meetings with all the states. That's not always obvious in this country, but the most important thing is that we got there. In the coming weeks, the Council of State will deliver its opinion. I do not think it is clear that we have an order before the end of this parliamentary year of work. It was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 20 May and the opinion of the Council of State requires a month, which brings us to 20 June. Since the agenda is already fairly full, as I understand it, it will be almost impossible to get that done. So it will be for October. I think I've answered most of the points. If there are any questions, I'll come back to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u14	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. I have received an answer to my questions and I have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u15	Mr President, I note that many of my questions have not been answered. Mr Secretary of State, in the past I have had a lot of contact with employers. Employers sometimes make a great deal of effort to prepare the papers for a work permit and a residence permit for people from abroad. The workers then work there for a week, then disappear with their residence permit and work permit. If the employer wishes to offer these workers a contract, it is covered by the regional administration. The regional administration, if there is a contract, makes the residence permit and work permit in order. After working under that contract for a week, they disappear from the radar. In 2013, the Flemish government issued a total of 33 000 work cards, but no checks are ever carried out at regional level. However, this can easily be found in the databases. It is therefore a way of wrongly acquiring a work permit and a residence permit. I have said this several times, also to the Flemish Minister. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u16	I share that concern. I'll look into that further. Thank you for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I had already put this question to you a while ago. During last week's plenary session, you gave some answers, but I would like to ask my question, because you have also consulted with the VVSG in the meantime, and perhaps you can go into more detail. Once refugees have been recognised, they can stay in a reception centre for another two months. During that period they are supposed to look forward to their own property on the private rental market. Due to the high capacity utilisation rate that we had in the reception network during the last asylum crisis, Fedasil allowed only very exceptionally an extension of the two-month period, although this extension has been requested by the services for a long time. Practice has shown for some time that this period is too short. Once refugees are recognised, it often takes six to seven weeks before they receive their papers. However, they need these documents in order to be able to rent a house. Moreover, due to the large competition on the rental market, it is not evident for those persons to find a suitable home. The search is very time-consuming. In the coming months, many tens of thousands of refugees will be recognised in our country. Many of them will end up in the streets in the short term of two months or have to be temporarily taken care of by friends or family, or end up in poor or overpriced housing. Mr Secretary of State, you've known that problem for a while. For example, I understand that during the busy asylum crisis it was not possible to allow more exceptions. In the meantime, however, the situation has changed, and a period of four or five months seems to us to be much more realistic for recognised refugees to find a home. Can you possibly agree to that? Has there been any progress in the area of cooperation with the regions on this issue, since they are also responsible for housing? Should the recognised refugees stay longer in the federal structures, will the regions be involved in financing the additional costs? Perhaps you could also comment on the results of the consultation with the VVSG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u18	Mr President, my question is perfectly compatible with Mrs Gabriel's question. Mr Secretary of State, the cities and municipalities have in recent months provided new shelters. Now that we see a sharp drop in the influx of asylum seekers, I believe, for the time being, many vacant or refurbished homes are empty. You promised to work together with the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities to see how to proceed with the empty shelters. Has there been any consultation? If not, when is that planned? If so, what conclusions have been drawn from this? Your spokesperson informed the press that it is important to provide a buffer for the future and that a number of houses will therefore remain empty. Then what is being done with the remaining empty houses? What are the prospects? A possible suggestion is that local authorities transform their accommodation units or convert them into regular transit houses that everyone can use. After all, there is a great deal of demand for accommodation for recognised refugees. I have an additional question and perhaps you can answer it. Can you tell how many places in holiday parks are reserved for emergency care?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u19	Mr President, as far as the last question is concerned, I do not think that holiday parks are currently being used. I'm not 100% sure, and I'm looking at my spokeswoman, but she's not looking back. We have closed a number of them again and I believe that there is no longer any shelter in holiday parks at the moment. Many of the elements in these questions have been discussed in plenary on Thursday, but I have no problem answering the questions. The consultation with the VVSG has not yet taken place. I believe it will be 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u20	Was that this morning? There were a lot of meetings in the cabinet this morning. It's really not my day today. This morning at 9:00 a.m. there was an IKW, I know that. We'll check it out. Anyway, the consultation will take place, or it has already taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u22	Then, of course, my answer is not quite up-to-date. The main points that we must remember are, on the one hand, the two-month period, and, on the other hand, the need for flexibility in this area. As I said in plenary, a longer period than two months can be granted for me, with a monthly extension of one month to four months. That must be justified, but not, as at present, only when submitting a rental contract. It is now the case that the only way to stay longer in the shelter is to submit a rental contract. If one can show that, for example, one can stay in his house on 1 August, one can stay longer. I think that just showing that effective efforts have been made to rent or buy an apartment or a property.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We must be sufficiently flexible in this. However, I keep repeating it, whether it be four months, six months or eight months, sooner or later the story is federally done. I cannot emphasise enough that everyone is responsible for this. If OMCW members wish to terminate the agreement with Fedasil on a voluntary basis, Fedasil will apply a certain flexibility in the application of the conventions, for example in reducing the duration of the notice period in order to allow them to be used more quickly for other purposes. The housing can be reoriented and used to fill the social housing market deficit. OMCWs may also suspend LOIs and use them for other purposes during the period of suspension. One of the measures may also be the use of LOIs as transit homes and that Fedasil will not terminate the agreement in the event of a prolonged suspension. OMCWs shall have the legal capacity to suspend LOISs and to use it for other purposes during the period of suspension. Fedasil is preparing a letter to the LOIS to provide feedback on the current situation and the measures to be taken. We're gonna go in there and make sure you know what's going on. One of the measures may be that LOIS can be used as transit homes and that Fedasil will not terminate the agreement in the event of prolonged suspension. Ideally, capacity utilisation is between 80% and 90%. Total capacity utilisation is around 85%. In the LOIS it is currently 80% and even slightly less. That's not an abnormal situation. Fedasil is currently emptying the emergency shelter. These are 2 000 places of which some of the residents with a high degree of recognition are sent to the LOIS. Afterwards, a global phasing-out plan will follow as a result of the declining occupation. The meeting with the VVSG took place this afternoon. I didn't go to the cabinet because I had to give a lecture. No new consultation has been planned and everything has gone very well. MEPs know better than I do, Mrs Gabriels. I'm pretty optimistic we'll get out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, it was the VVSG's board of directors this afternoon and the report is being produced very quickly there. I got the answers. I think it is particularly useful for the OMCWs to be informed of this. After all, there are a lot of questions on the ground. If they could get the information we have received from you today, they would have been helped a little further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for taking up your responsibility and for being flexible in dealing with empty houses. I agree with you that every level must take responsibility. The risk, however, is that, if you take responsibility for being flexible, you will remain left with the problem. I believe that solutions should be sought creatively at Flemish level. After all, it is a very big problem. I also believe that local authorities, OCMWs and municipal and city authorities should assume their responsibilities according to capacity. With your temper, I suspect you have the same reaction as I do. I note that in the long term the local authorities who want to think openly and widely and take their responsibilities with them often stay stuck with the fried pears. Now that you say that you will no longer apply the distribution plan, those who have responded early to your call to help asylum seekers will be sanctioned in the long term, because that is often where permanent housing must be created. I find it appalling that in Antwerp nine places are provided for unaccompanied minors on a population of 500 000 inhabitants. They have the Scoutel and a second vacant building. We have the instruments and we do not want to use them. If I were mayor or ships of another municipality and I see what is happening there, I would say "foert" in the next crisis and ask why we would still invest in permanent housing. I am the first to say that integration, integration courses, language courses and activation are very important in the short term for asylum seekers themselves and in the long term for us as a society. If we send the message permanently that we are doing it because we have to do it, but in as limited a way as possible, and make it as difficult as possible, our citizens will pay a heavy price in the long term, both individually and in society as a whole. I find certain local and Flemish leaders unreasonable. You have more power than I do, and I think you're welcome to hit them on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u25	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 25 April last, some media reported that the pre-reception places at the WTC Ill were closed on the grounds that the end of the Red Cross-Government Convention was scheduled for the end of this month and that it was no longer "profitable" in view of the significant decrease in arrivals in recent months. We can rejoice at this significant decrease. The persons, whose application is still not registered on the same day at the Foreign Office, only come out with a simple follow-up number and would be redirected to a pre-reception in a centre of the Samusocial of Neder-Over-Heembeek. At this stage, they are not considered asylum seekers. The latter are in principle called in a second stage to register their asylum application and are informed of the date of the summons via the Office's website. A letter signed by your hand is given to the persons after the first interview at the Office. Like your previous letters, it is again a biased and oriented information document that aims to deter people from seeking asylum. Hence, Secretary of State, my three questions. On what logistical argument do you rely on to introduce this new phase in the procedure while with the decline in applications, the capacity of the reception network would allow each asylum-seeker to register and be designated a reception place on the day of his first interview? Can you tell me whether vulnerable persons are registered directly with the Agency and are designated as a reception place immediately or are they sent back to the Samusocial in pre-reception like the others? Fingerprints, however taken during the first interview at the Office, are not immediately entered into the Eurodac European database, i.e. since the end of February. Could you give me the reasons for this new procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, as far as we know, both pre-care and pre-registration still exist today. For various reasons, that is particularly bizarre. I would like to ask you four questions about this. For some time now, pre-care is no longer organized by the Red Cross, close to the former tent camp in the Maximilian park, but by Samusocial. The pre-conception is located in Lower Over Heembeek. Are asylum seekers referred to after pre-registration? How many people are in pre-care on average a day? I would have liked, if possible, the average of the last two weeks. Why do you stick to the pre-registration system in the Foreign Affairs Office in the current circumstances? How many pre-registrations are performed on average per day? Here again I would have liked to know the average for the last two weeks. I ask that question because the inflow has dropped and a system of pre-registration is in fact no longer necessary. Is there still a limit on the number of registrations per day? If so, which one? How much time is on average between pre-registration and actual registration in the last month?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u27	Colleagues, the pre-accommodation on the premises of the WTC III building can only be of short duration. This was already evident from the start. In order to organise the reception in these buildings, certain safety and cleaning conditions had to be met. All this made the reception difficult. In this way, we have considered looking for other possibilities in the Fedasil hosting network in order to continue the pre-hosting and place it under Fedasil. I remain convinced that pre-reception is an added value. At the operational level, this provides a huge advantage to dispatching, which is better aware of the profile of asylum seekers who have introduced themselves and can more easily send them to a given centre. Mr De Vriendt, the site Béjart is also partly used for pre-care. The figure fluctuates, but basically remains well below fifty. Mr De Vriendt, the system has some operational advantages. For example, it is possible to carry out a prior safety screening of each applicant. The system also provides useful information for the Agency. In this way, the vulnerability, health and age of each asylum seeker can be verified more thoroughly and thus be allocated to the appropriate reception infrastructure. It gives the dispatching of Fedasil a little more time to properly assign the people. Indeed, pre-care services can be better organised. In the current situation where persons entitled to a reception are referred to the Samusocial (the Béjart site in Neder-Over-Heembeek) during pre-registration, it is true that they are all invited to represent themselves the following working day to submit their asylum applications. In addition, on the day of pre-registration, Fedasil provides for a medical examination which includes the identification of persons in vulnerable situations. If they so wish, persons so qualified as "vulnerable" may apply on the same day. The necessary steps are taken to register applications on the same day. These include women at the end of pregnancy, but also persons in a specific medical situation who are in a precarious situation. Fedasil immediately designates them as a reception centre. Only fingerprints taken in connection with an asylum application (Eurodac I) or an illegal entry (Eurodac II) must be registered in Eurodac. Fingerprints taken as part of a prior security check or to ensure pre-registration do not fall within these categories and are therefore not included in Eurodac. My cabinet makes an assessment every day of the situation at Fedasil and DVZ and then determines how many asylum applications can be registered. In any case, the limit of 250 people per day is not reached at the moment. Most strangers get a convocation for one of the next days. So right now, there's no problem with the organization. However, pre-care is maintained, as it is particularly useful to improve the work of our dispatching and to ensure that asylum seekers are better integrated into the network. Vulnerable persons shall always be registered immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. At the time of the introduction of pre-acceptance, we were in favour of establishing an emergency procedure, considering that the very, very large number of applications justified the introduction of a special procedure. However, the urgency has disappeared and the number of requests has decreased. You can therefore, at this stage, temporarily delete the pre-reception system. People are now in pre-reception, while they should be welcomed. Those who want to apply for asylum must be able to do so immediately upon their first appointment to the Foreign Office. By keeping these asylum-seekers in an intermediate situation of pre-reception, you place them in a legal vacuum and very precarious both material and psychological. As far as Eurodac is concerned, which is closely linked to the pre-reception stage, you blamed Italy and Greece for exactly what you are doing here. They are accused of not entering fingerprints in Eurodac and this is exactly what Belgium is doing differently...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u29	Germany!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u30	Yes, but Germany, Italy and Greece are subject to an incredible flow of refugees: one million for Germany. I do not know how many refugees Italy and Greece count, but in any case it is immeasurably more than our 40,000 refugees!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, you put forward a number of arguments to maintain pre-care and, above all, pre-registration. As far as I am concerned, however, they are totally unconvincing. Let me look at your three arguments. You say there may be a security screening at pre-registration. Of course, you can do the same when you register. I hope that, in all these years that there was no pre-registration, the registration included a safety screening. I'm assuming so. That's perfect to do with a registration. You say that a pre-registration allows for dispatching and for the distribution of asylum seekers across the reception network. That's what happens when you register. Fedasil then takes over and takes care of the reception of each registered asylum seeker. That argument is therefore completely incomprehensible to me. You answer that fingerprints are taken from someone who is pre-registered, but that it is not necessary to include them in Eurodac. That's right, that's not necessary. But that's just the big problem. Eurodac provides a much greater security guarantee, when we are talking about security, than the national database. Data can be exchanged and coordination with the other countries is possible. In this way, a particular asylum seeker can be seen from day one and is part of the European system. This is clearly not the case with pre-registration. There is a danger that someone will disappear after pre-registration. That is exactly what makes your policy possible. This is exactly what we have been blaming Greece for so long: that it did not organise its registration properly, which allowed asylum seekers to disappear from the radar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u32	Le ridicule ne tue pas. You make a comparison between Belgium and Greece. What else are we gonna go through?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u33	It is undeniable that Belgium, in relation to Greece and Italy, is not confronted with the same massive influx of refugees. You blamed Italy and Greece for not entering fingerprints within the Eurodac system. But you do exactly the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u34	We have far more asylum seekers in Belgium than in Italy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, according to legible information - but in the meantime withdrawn - on the website of the firm Henley & Partners, the Belgian government would have called on the services of this company to, I quote, "develop, set up and promote a residency programme in Belgium (the Belgium Residence Program) which links the right to establish itself in Belgium to the encouragement of direct investment, with a view to establishing a commercial activity in Belgium". Henley & Partners is known for its activities in the market for the relocation and relocation of wealthy individuals and the acquisition of a nationality for this rather particular segment of new Belgians. The advice it provides has primarily an objective of tax optimisation. I must point out that in the meantime, this information has disappeared from Henley & Partners' website. This is proof that parliamentary work pays off. Mr Secretary of State, can you let me know whether your departments and in particular the Office of Foreigners has or has had contacts with Henley & Partners or its representatives in Belgium? If so, in what form? This private initiative is not in fact part of the application of the law of 15 December 1980, even amended, since none of the provisions of this organic law on the residence of foreigners addresses this question of relocation for investment. In addition, such an initiative was not announced in the policy statement. Secondly, can you let me know, for 2014, 2015 and 2016, how many foreigners would possibly have obtained a right of residence for investment in Belgium through the programme developed by Henley & Partners for Belgium or a related programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u36	Honourable member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The Foreign Office is not aware of the existence of this program.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u37	That's great news. This means that the company was advertising falsely. So there are not two categories of people who have the right of residence in our country: the rich who would easily obtain it through an investment and the others who should go through the procedures that, like me, you know well. It's all good that ends well!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u38	In 2015, the federal Ombudsman received complaints from individuals who received a decision following their multiple asylum application that restricted their right to material assistance to the right to medical assistance. Consequently, they were denied the right to receive care. Often they were street-based families with underage children. This reminds us of the closure of the winter shelter, which also caused families with children to end up on the streets, while shelters are open. Any restriction on the right to material aid should be based on an individual decision. In addition, the right to material aid has been linked to the most recent asylum procedure since 16 March 2015 and is maintained if an application for renewal was submitted before the multiple asylum application. In addition, minor children residing with their parents without a legal residence permit may apply for material assistance on the basis of the Royal Decree of 24 June 2004 which places the need at the centre. As President of the OMCW, I have often been confronted with this. Today, however, we see that families with underage children are still on the streets. The current saturation of the reception network is no longer a valid reason for not providing reception. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware that limiting material aid to medical care does not guarantee a decent standard of living? Will the Foreign Affairs Department follow the instruction of 16 March 2015 on multiple asylum applications? Are vulnerable groups sufficiently taken into account when refusing material aid? If so, in what sense? I'd like to hear more about that. Will DVZ be called in the future to move away from standard decisions and make more work on individual reasoned decisions? In this way, people's vulnerability and need can be better assessed. We ask for a haute-couture policy instead of customization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u39	Mrs De Coninck, a decent standard of living is a flexible concept and must be assessed on a case-by-case basis according to the individual situation of the persons to whom it is applied. For this reason, Fedasil is required to justify each decision individually, given the circumstances in which the person is situated, for example whether that person has family members in Belgium. Moreover, the labour court is competent to assess the legality of such a statement of reasons. You refer to an instruction from Fedasil dated 6 March 2015 and not from 16 March 2015. That only concerns Fedasil and not DVZ. If asylum seekers submit multiple applications to the competent services, they shall be assessed whether they belong to a vulnerable group, such as minors, pregnant women, persons with a medical background or persons with disabilities. As mentioned earlier, decisions are made on a case-by-case basis, so that I cannot give further details. It depends on the case. Fedasil takes the decision, not the Department of Foreign Affairs, taking into account the individual circumstances of each asylum seeker. The asylum seeker then has the option of bringing an action before the labour court if he does not agree with Fedasil's reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u40	It is an answer, but it is not really known. It is sometimes about families with underage children who are having a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u42	Okay, well, then you'll have to make sure this is done. People with children cannot be allowed to live on the streets. They're people. They're kids. They didn't fall. They're not numbers. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u43	Do you know they can go to an open return center in Holsbeek? The previous government, of which you were a member, set up that centre. Very often the center has reception capacity. They offer 30 days of shelter, but even that they refuse. I know that you are very nuanced about this, because you have a lot of practical experience. It is sometimes very complex to motivate people to accept a certain kind of shelter. If you say that care is not allowed at the open reception centre in Holsbeek, it will of course be difficult. You're talking about underage children. I admit it's often poignant. We are doing our best to do this, even if it is not always soluble. I also find it very striking that some of the reception facilities we offer are consistently refused. I don't think that's right either. It is the parents who are primarily responsible for their children and not the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u44	Yes, but also in our country there are parents who for some reason do not take good care of their children. There are procedures to deal with this. I believe that it should be considered whether the government should not accept its responsibility if parents refuse to accept their responsibility to their children. We need to think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 11357 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 11379 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 11392 is hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u46	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the problems of hotspots. You sent a letter to the top man of the European Asylum Agency, José Carreira, demanding more security for foreign staff who help the Greek authorities process asylum applications in the hotspots on the Greek islands. For our country, six experts from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, the Foreign Affairs Service and Fedasil are involved. This would be due to earlier reports of problems in several registration centres on Greek soil. In your letter to the EASO, you called for "clear crisis planning and evacuation procedures so that we can provide the necessary security to the experts in the hotspots and ensure their safety at all times." In addition, you also want to be informed in real time of incidents, especially in the places where Belgian experts are active. In the meantime, you would also have received a reply to your letter to ensure that staff safety is always the first concern, that a first set of measures has already been taken and that there are others in the pipeline. For example, an emergency exit was installed at the place where interviews are conducted, the alarms and sirens are being worked and barbed wire comes around the interview zone. Are there any shortcomings after the series of measures taken or proposed? What problems were the Belgian experts facing on the spot? One of them's workshop would have been temporarily evacuated in the past. Can you provide more information about this incident? Did there also come a positive answer to your question about the real-time flow of information on incidents involving possible compatriots?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u48	Mrs Gabriels, Belgium, like other Member States, has always placed the safety aspect high on the agenda when experts are deployed in Greece. This is also of prime importance for EASO and the European Commission. In the field, however, it is the Greek authorities that are responsible for the safety of the EASO experts. Following a number of incidents, we are now receiving clear reports that security measures have been stepped up and that there is continuous surveillance by the Greek police. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, Foreign Affairs and Fedasil follow this closely and an assessment of the current security situation is always taken into account in the decisions on sending out Belgian experts. At the time of the incidents, the Belgian Foreign Affairs Office had two employees operational, one on Lesbos and one on Chios. In the late afternoon of 26 April a small rebellion broke out in camp Moria on Lesbos. A small unit of the police in riot clothing tried to stabilize the situation, but their number was too small. The police finally used tear gas. The majority of the EASO personnel were in the EASO compound at that time, where the interviews took place. The EASO compound is a closed area within the camp Moria and has its own fence and an entrance gate that can be locked and closed along the inside. During the riots they left the EASO-compound at peace and they also did not try to force the fence of the compound or attack the compound. EASO didn't get hurt either. A number of EASO's social assistants were in the compound of the minors and suffered from the tear gas used. Some of EASO's employees in the EASO-compound were quite upset and some of them were panicked. At Chios there was an evacuation of Camp Vial on April 27, 2016 due to tensions in the camp, but initially as a precaution, given the tensions on Lesbos. The DVZ employee never felt threatened. At Chios there was the same problem as at Lesbos: the limited capacity of the Greek police and the lack of a useful emergency exit for the EASO staff. From 28 April to 4 May, the employees were not in the camps. Work resumed on 4 May. On Lesbos, the emergency exit in the EASO compound is installed and usable. The promised extra police were present on 4 May. The rest of the week they were also in post. There were no major incidents after that. It's different on Chios. On 4 May it was decided not to start work. On 7 May, the employees worked again in Camp Vial, but there were uprisings, though between groups of asylum seekers, Afghans and Syrians, and not against EASO. There are containers installed and there is a greater presence of the police. In the week of 9 May there was work on a normal rhythm with an increased presence of the police without major incidents. It has been promised that there will be a larger and more secure space for the EASO experts. On 26 May there was another incident in the hotspot on the island of Chios, in which it came to riots with mainly Afghan asylum seekers. The EASO personnel were immediately evacuated and brought to safety. The Executive Director of EASO informed the various Member States, including Belgium, about the facts a few hours later and announced that additional security measures would be taken in cooperation with the Greek authorities. As a result, a Belgian expert returned home because he no longer felt safe. The EASO informed Member States on Wednesday 11 May on the launch of a weekly monitoring system of all aspects of the operation of the hotspots, including safety aspects. The EASO has therefore made a clear commitment to meet the demand for strict monitoring and reporting. Our services are following closely, Mrs Gabriels. The situation is not ideal. There's still tension. There are fights. You should know that the people were evacuated under the protection of the Syrians and the Iraqis. It was the Afghans who caused the rage. That was striking. The Syrians and Iraqis have protected and shielded the personnel from these attacks. It gets hot on those islands sometimes. I think it is very important for our staff that safety can be guaranteed. We are working on this as much as possible, but, as the Greek Minister said, it is not of course the same as working in an office in Brussels. We monitor constantly and we are constantly in consultation to further increase security and guarantee it for all personnel, but it has been quite adventurous over the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u49	Thank you for the detailed overview, Mr Secretary of State. Our people on the ground are indeed working in very difficult conditions. It is important that their safety is guaranteed as much as possible and that it is monitored very closely from here, but I hear that it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u50	The next item is your question No. 11937, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u51	I do not have that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u52	Then let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u53	Mrs Lanjri is not here and Mrs Matz is apologized for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u54	Mr President, I will cut the question a little short, because it is partly outdated and because I have already asked a number of questions about it. I have one more question. There is a deal between Europe and Turkey on stopping refugees on the border with Europe. The deal also applies to those sent from Greece or another country to Turkey. We would do relocation or resettlement in exchange for the same number of people. We have an agreement on this. However, we see signs that the agreements are not being honoured by the European Union and that Turkey is not so happy with them. Can we not speed up the release of new capacity as reception capacity is released?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u55	Is this the question about the distribution plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u56	Yes, but Mr. De Vriendt...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u57	I'm confused for a second. What the hell is...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u58	That was question No. 11886.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u59	And what about the question about the distribution plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u60	This was a long question, but since we were just talking about reception capacity, I simply shortened my question. I would like to concentrate on the fifth question in question. 11886. Since reception capacity is now available, I wonder whether we can speed up the implementation of the agreements between Europe and Turkey on relocation or resettlement. In this way, we can be a good example for the other European Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u61	Mr President, it was somewhat confusing, but we are with you. About the dispersal plan. Mr Secretary of State, you announced that you would propose not to activate the distribution plan for the reception of asylum seekers. In the meantime, was a decision taken in the government? Have you heard any new comments, for example from the municipalities, which are clearly involved, or from the VVSG? During last week's plenary session, you indicated that you would like to examine the possibility of using the shelters released by the municipalities for other social needs, crisis care, transit homes, homeless shelters, etc. In the meantime, do you have confirmation that the necessary flexibility can be built in so that the efforts of the municipalities are not lost without losing financial commitments from Fedasil?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u62	It's a little confusing. We would be better off holding thematic debates. On the proposal of the crisis shelter there was a meeting at the VVSG this afternoon. Mrs Gabriels suggested that she had seen the report. That is from the meeting of 18 May. That's why I'm confused. It is about the meeting that was to take place today. I have not yet had a debriefing, except that this has been done in a good, constructive way. I have already replied to the question as to whether places can be suspended more quickly. I want to repeat that. Yes, we are open to seeing what the desiderata are in the municipalities. Can we cancel the contracts faster? Can we be more flexible in that? Can we facilitate the interpretation of the rules that Fedasil normally applies when it comes to the LOIS? Yes, we are willing, but that depends, of course, on the demands of the municipalities. They'll have to ask. Then there is the question of increasing the resettlement and resettlement. I think we should first do what we have done so far. There's still a lot of people to come. That's a lot going on right now. That's what we're gonna do first. You're asking me if I can't raise the pledge. We are from the biggest asylum crisis since the Second World War. It's not because it's quiet for six or seven weeks that we're suddenly going to raise our pledge. We must be realistic in this. I moved the 250 to 300 places from last year to 2016, because last year we could not reset extra. I just couldn't. Let's just do it first and we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u63	I'm not asking you to raise the pledge. I ask you to speed up, to give clearer signals that we want to carry out the deal with positive energy as soon as possible. If we know that millions of people are in reception camps at the borders, including in Jordan, then we would be able to deal with them in a positive way if we had the capacity to take care of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u64	The CGVS selection mission is this month. We are really doing what we can to make this move forward quickly, but it is not only in our hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u65	As I understand it, the meeting took place today. So I can re-table my question on another occasion. I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 11641 was postponed. Questions Nos 11653 and 11654 by Mrs Van Hoof and Questions Nos 11792 and 11793 by Mrs Thoron could be combined if we still have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u67	Mr President, I am exchanging the hearings on Central Africa, together with Mr De Vriendt, with this very interesting committee, where I would like to ask questions. Mr Secretary of State, when we were side by side as MPs during the previous parliamentary term, we are still doing so, but as a member of the government and MP, a resolution was discussed on the protection of the Christian community and other religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Near East and the Middle East. This resolution, an initiative across the borders of majority and minority parties, which was discussed for a long time in the External Relations Committee, was finally adopted unanimously, with the support of Green, PS, sp.a, MR, CDH, Open Vld and N-VA, in the Chamber. Two years later, the content of that resolution is burningly topical, especially in view of what you, as Secretary of State and our country, have had to face over the past year. Firstly, can you confirm to me that the resolution that you yourself adopted at the time and which was supported by the opposition, is today being reflected in the government's policy? Secondly, do you think that sufficient attention is being paid to the demands made on the government at the time? Among other things, it was asked that the government should pursue the protection of religious minorities, that legislative acts leading to discrimination should be abolished and that any opposition to freedom of expression on these issues should be punishable. Can you report results from your policy, as requested by the entire Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u68	For your information, Syria is located in the Middle East and Saudi Arabia. Mr Luykx, if you question the way in which the provisions contained in the resolution on the protection of religious minorities have an impact on asylum policy, I would remind you that the individual assessment of asylum applications is primarily carried out by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. That body shall carry out its mission in full independence and shall take into account the definitions and procedures laid down by law, the situation in the country of origin and the elements introduced by the asylum seekers. I do have a discretionary power of access to Belgian territory. On the basis of this responsibility, I have worked with the rest of the government over the past year to give more than 300 Syrian Christians the chance to reach our country in a safe and legal way and then apply for asylum. The conflict in Syria and Iraq is of unseen horror and affects all citizens, regardless of their religious or ethnic background. However, it is clear that certain groups are particularly endorsed by their ethnic-religious identity and are therefore in an extremely vulnerable position. That is also the content of the resolution, which I fully supported a few years ago. This is not the least because, unlike other population groups, they often do not have their own militias, which can guarantee their safety. The concern about the fate of religious minorities in the Middle East and the Near East remains, and I, as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, will not fail to pursue similar initiatives if necessary in the future. I am also trying to implement the resolution adopted unanimously at the time, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, I summarize it in three words:facta non verba. It is clear that you, as Secretary of State, as an executive part of the government, are a matter of clarity, because the ideas you stood for as a Member of Parliament at the time make you hard in your policy today. That can certainly be mentioned. Everyone, from all sides, majority and opposition, must understand the ethnic and religious minorities. They deserve the support you give.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u70	Apparently, a question about child labour in Turkey is on the agenda for the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u71	Mr President, Secretary of State, last week's report in De Volkskrant concludes that Syrian children in and around the Turkish city of Gaziantep are widely employed in the local industry. Gaziantep is the last major city before the border with Syria on the road to Aleppo and the largest number of Syrian refugees in Turkey are located in that region. Human Rights Watch also raised the alarm earlier this year when it reported that almost 500 000 Syrian children do not attend school in Turkey, which accounts for 70% of Syrian children of school age in Turkey. One of the reasons for low school participation is that it is very difficult for parents to find work to support their families. The money the children bring in is simply needed to survive in southern Turkey. Both children and parents are engaged in undeclared work and are heavily underpaid, making it just as attractive to employers. Similar phenomena occur in Lebanon and Jordan, according to Human Rights Watch. In addition, last week, the Greek appeal body for asylum granted the right to a Syrian refugee who had appealed against the rejection of his application for asylum. The committee, similar to our Council of Foreign Ministers, considered that the protection of refugees in Turkey did not comply with the Geneva Convention on Refugees. Mr Secretary of State, that is why I have the following questions. Are you aware of the problem of child labour among Syrian refugee populations? What are the consequences of the Greek appeal body's ruling on asylum applications? Do you agree that both elements once again show that Turkey's status as a safe third country is totally unbelievable? What consequences will you have for these new elements concerning the status of refugees in Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u72	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, the responsibility for assessing Turkey as a safe third country lies with the Greek asylum service. It is not for Belgium to give a ruling on this. On the basis of a whole series of measures recently taken by Turkey, the Greek Asylum Service started examining Syrian asylum applications at the admissibility stage a few weeks ago. For example, Turkey has given legal and political guarantees that Syrians who are sent back from Greece to Turkey can obtain the status of temporary protection anyway. With European financial support, Turkey has improved access to education for Syrian refugees and opened up access to the labour market for those refugees. In assessing Syrian asylum applications, the Greek Asylum Service, supported by EASO experts, is rigorous. Each asylum application shall be assessed individually, paying particular attention to the potential individual fears of asylum seekers vis-à-vis Turkey, the potential vulnerabilities of the asylum seeker and possible family links with persons in other EU Member States. Information on the situation of Syrian refugees in Turkey may be relevant, but on a case-by-case basis the extent to which this is relevant needs to be assessed. Up to now, on the basis of such individual assessments, approximately two out of three applications from Syrian asylum seekers have been declared admissible at first instance, which clearly demonstrates that Greece is very cautious about the application of the concept of "secure third country'. It is true that the Greek appeal body, in its first ruling, annulled the decision of inadmissibility on the basis of the grounds that Turkey would not provide sufficient guarantees to ensure that the temporary protection status granted in Turkey is in conformity with refugee status under the Geneva Convention. Like you, we've been told that through the media. I cannot comment on the content of the judgment, which I have not yet seen. Moreover, it is once again up to the Greek authorities to analyse these judgments and, if necessary, to take further steps in conjunction with the European Commission. With my European fellow Members, I continue to urge the European Commission to set up a well-functioning monitoring mechanism in close cooperation with UNHCR in Turkey. This should allow a clearer picture of the real situation for Syrian refugees in Turkey. My British colleague has announced that his services are currently working on a report on Turkey as a safe third country. All objective information is, of course, more than welcome to support Greek colleagues in their individual assessment of Syrian asylum applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u73	You're giving a pretty clear answer. You don't contest the facts. It is a fact that Syrian children are employed in Turkey on a very large scale. It's about forced labour. The school is denied them. Through the agreement with Turkey, we are only contributing to this phenomenon. We need to be aware of that. The agreement with President Erdogan was reached because the Belgian Government agreed to that agreement. You and your government are partly responsible for the events in Turkey. I have no difficulty in saying that straight. The fact that Syrian refugees applying for asylum in Greece are still being refused despite the horrific civil war in Syria is, of course, unacceptable. A country that has signed the Geneva Convention on Refugees must respect that and provide for reception when applying for asylum. It must not send these people to a country that has not signed and does not respect the Geneva Convention on Refugees, in this case Turkey. You say that a certain amount of protection is provided for refugees in Turkey. That only exists on paper. There are plenty of testimonies that say there's no such thing. Once again, the fact that 500 000 Syrian children do not attend school in Turkey is a confirmation of this. We sold our souls and our values. The Belgian Government is making that happen. You're just gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u74	Belgium is Greece and we are guilty of child labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u76	This is the last word you will have, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 11742 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, three bombings have recently been carried out in the Iraqi capital Baghdad, with at least 64 deaths and 87 injuries, many of which have been severely mutilated. The first, deadliest attack hit a market in a poor Shiite neighborhood. According to the United Nations, 1 885 civilians have already been killed in violence in the first four months of this year. In the letter you sent to Iraqi asylum seekers at the beginning of May, you explained to them that Iraq is not part of the most dangerous countries, that there is no arbitrary war violence and that the situation is not so unstable. However, the above facts speak for themselves. This is still in stark contrast to the fact that you promise Iraqi asylum seekers an increased return premium of EUR 500 during May, with the aim of facilitating their voluntary return. A accompanied minor will receive 250 euros instead of 125 euros. In addition, instead of responding to their asylum application, Iraqi asylum seekers would have received a letter on the return premium. That letter would also state that the possibility of their application being approved is low and that family reunification is difficult. Meanwhile, the staff of the various reception centres must explain that the content of such letters is not entirely correct, that the information is misleading and incomplete and that asylum applications are a right. This is so misleading and incomplete for those people because in many cases they are less linguistic and do not always understand those letters with a double signal. Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of questions. Firstly, is it true that Iraqi asylum seekers received the letter on the return premium with misleading information rather than a letter replying to their asylum application? Secondly, do you have more information on the number of Iraqi asylum seekers and minors who have now used this increased return premium? Thirdly, do you intend to extend the increased return premium beyond the month of May? It would be inappropriate to maintain the current premium system after this triple attack involving more than 100 victims, especially when we are talking about minors. Fourthly, will you review the return premium as a result of the arbitrary acts of violence that have taken place in recent months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u79	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, an information letter translated into Arabic was indeed sent to all adult Iraqi asylum seekers. This letter is separate from the letters sent by the CGVS concerning asylum applications. I absolutely contest that the content of that letter of information would be incorrect. In May, 117 Iraqis left or booked until 31 May. This is a higher number of returners compared to April, when it was about 75 people. This is an increase of more than 60%. It was decided to extend the premium by one month, to provide additional support to Iraqis who wish to return to their home country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, you will of course answer what you want to answer. However, your answer is very limited. Nevertheless, you also feel that it is ethically very questionable to risk 500 euros instead of 250 euros, the reason why people fled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament 11889 by Mrs De Coninck has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 11913 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 11917 is also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u82	Mr Secretary of State, in Het Laatste Nieuws, you stated that you dreamed of the reduction in the number of asylum applications, as we know them now. The layout of the page was indeed rather unfortunate. Nevertheless, you made that statement. You were clearly satisfied with the developments in recent months, including the closure of the borders of the Balkan route, as well as the conclusion of the deal with Turkey. However, your colleague in development cooperation, Alexander De Croo, saw things differently. He stated in Le Soir that he considered your ruling inappropriate. In his view, it is not enough to stop refugees at the borders, and Belgium and Europe must play a greater role in the region to tackle the causes of the refugee crisis. Apart from the polemic, and given your two powers, doesn't Minister De Croo have a point? Your dream can, of course, be broken up quickly when the deal with Turkey falls apart or when, as experts predict and as we can already see, migratory flows are growing again over the next few months, especially through other routes. Do you notice, in the longer term, between now and the end of the year, other trends that may affect asylum entry, for example, the onset of other routes? There is the route through Italy, where a ship with more than 500 passengers capsized a few days ago. There are also migratory flows from Africa and Asia, regardless of the Syrian problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u83	Mr De Vriendt, I can only agree with my colleague, Minister De Croo, when he says that Belgium needs to do more to improve the fate of refugees in the region. However, this is within his competence, not mine. At European level, too, we are increasingly moving towards a logic where the main focus is on reception in the region, coupled with a system of resettlement for the most vulnerable in Europe. Let us not forget that the agreement with Turkey has not only reduced the influx of asylum into our country, but has ultimately reduced the number of deaths of drowning in the eastern Mediterranean to almost zero. The unfortunate tragedies we have been facing in recent days show that the Central-Mediterranean route also requires an anti-drinking plan. I will make every effort to do so at European level. I trust that my colleagues De Croo and Reynders will do the same. Belgium is making important efforts to help refugees in the region. We have included important commitments in the framework of the Euro-African Migration Summit in Valletta. In addition, as part of the deal with Turkey, the EU has committed itself to releasing two EUR 3 billion slices to improve reception of Syrian refugees in Turkey. All this is on top of the other Belgian efforts in development cooperation and humanitarian aid. The competent services shall follow up on all available dates. At the moment, the figures are low, and there may be an increase this summer, but that is not foreseeable at the moment. The number of asylum seekers registered in May is likely to be even lower than the already low figure in April. The number of multiple asylum applications has increased by percentage. As far as nationalities are concerned, we see a status quo among Afghans, a halving among Syrians and an increase in some Balkan countries. I will also go to the Balkan countries in a few days' time to advise the people there not to come to Belgium again. It goes without saying that migratory pressures on Europe will continue to be high. That is what the geopolitical situation is like today. However, I would also like to point out that migration is not only a story of push factors, but also of pull factors. Even if the major areas of conflict in the Middle East were to fade out, Europe would remain an attractive destination. The majority of people who are crossing from Libya to Italy via the Central-Mediterranean route today are economic migrants who are not eligible for asylum in Europe. In order to discourage them from making this dangerous, illegal and often pointless journey, Europe needs a firm and efficient border and return policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, you said that you had dreamed of a reduction in the number of asylum seekers. In fact, I find such enthusiasm only justified if it means that there are fewer refugees worldwide or that there are fewer wars and refugee flows. I do not think that is something to rejoice about, because the borders are being hermetically closed and the problem is simply being shifted to other countries, at worst to Turkey, as we have seen today. I would like to recommend once again that I have done so before in order to maximise the number of places of refuge that will be left empty by using the declining influx for legal routes of migration, in particular for resettlement and/or humanitarian visas. The other routes will only increase, with a risk of a large number of victims. All efforts for coastal surveillance and rescue in the Mediterranean should therefore be encouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic435x.u85	For the sake of completeness, I would like to confirm that Questions Nos 11653 and 11654 by Mrs Van Hoof, Questions Nos 11792 and 11793 by Mrs Thoron and Question No 57 by Mrs Van Hoof. Mrs Smeyers' 11796 was postponed to a next committee meeting. That concludes the agenda.
