ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u1	Minister, I had already prepared this question in February. I thought the Joint Committee might have already taken place, but I will probably hear that in the answer later. Your policy paper states that a new cooperation programme will be concluded with Morocco in 2016. We know from the discussions and from the media that the agreement is coming or even being reached. Morocco was retained as a partner country in Belgian development cooperation. The previous cooperation programme with Morocco concerned EUR 80 million. It is reported that the amount of government cooperation would be drastically reduced to around EUR 20 million. My questions on this matter are as follows. What content would you like to give to the new cooperation programme with Morocco? Are you going to keep the priority sectors from the previous cooperation programmes? What changes do you want to make to this? How do you intend to align this new cooperation programme with the previous one? How do you intend to consolidate or continue the expected results and commitments from the previous cooperation programme? What budget do you provide for the new cooperation programme? How do you intend to make a difference with this? What priorities are you going to set and what impact are you going to pursue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u2	Mrs Van Hoof, starting from the macro-economic analysis of Morocco, from an analysis of the interventions of the other donors in that country and from an analysis of the Moroccan development strategies of the Belgian priorities and after consultation with various Belgian development actors, the new development programme, which is a cooperation programme between Belgium and Morocco, will contribute in the following areas to the policy of the Moroccan Government: firstly, human rights, in particular rights of women and children and of migrants and recognised refugees; secondly, the development of female entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship of young people; finally, the strengthening of competences within the public office and the modernisation of the civil service with the aim of providing better services to citizens. Morocco is now a middle income country with a current annual income per capita of 2 515 euros. According to the IMF, it will have an average annual gross national product growth of 3.5%. The increased tax revenues and the recent strong growth of aid from the Arab Gulf countries and several development banks allow Morocco to increasingly finance its own development. The added value for Morocco of a donor like Belgium will no longer lie in financing investment projects, such as sewerage or schools, but in transferring knowledge, competences and technologies to niches where Belgium can bring added value, such as managing migration flows, promoting children's rights, developing small and very small enterprises and modernising the State. Since all the interventions under the previous cooperation programme are still ongoing, most of the expected results still have to be achieved. The total budget of the new cooperation programme is EUR 18 million. Several Belgian actors with expertise in training, asylum, migration and human rights will contribute to the implementation of the cooperation programme. These include the BTC, the Home Office, the Foreign Office, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and Apefe. The identification of those actors will be carried out according to the fit-for-purpose principle. The results are: a better understanding of the population and authorities on violence against women and children, as well as an intensification of the fight against these diseases, a better functioning of Moroccan asylum services, a smooth and sustainable integration of regularised migrants, the growth of small and very small enterprises managed by women and the modernisation and digitisation of Moroccan public services. The Joint Committee will continue in Rabat in May 2016. As you can see, there is actually a shift from more past investment projects to more competence building projects now. In purely numerical terms, it could be said that it is about smaller amounts. However, this is a completely different nature of projects. Investment projects are often about very large investments, while competence building projects are simply of a different nature. This is reflected less in the figures, but therefore no less in the impact we will have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Maybe the committee can provide for this before May. I understand you're doing a shift. For Morocco, it is also logical that you should go more towards building rights and entrepreneurship, I think. That is certainly a logical choice for me. Given the article in De Standaard on migration and development cooperation today, we need to be able to clearly explain exactly what we will do. At the moment, you have identified this, but not yet formulated in a joint committee. When you talk about recognised refugees and integration, it remains vague what we mean. We have to be careful with that and fill it out properly. There is a challenge: it is not necessarily bad that the two are paired, but it will depend on the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u4	A few elements of reaction. When it comes to migratory flows, there are hardware, buildings, legislation and procedure. This means, in concrete terms, that we are relatively broad. You refer to an article in De Standaard. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to that. The article's wrong. We have already discussed this question in this committee. In our country, these are not communicating vessels. It is not that the OS budgets have been reduced to spend more on reception. Those are two different budgets. One's with Theo Francken, the other's with me. It is claimed that Belgium has a creative way of dealing with this. That's not right. We apply the OECD rules. All European countries do that. Our country does indeed have a slightly higher proportion of the ODA going to refugee reception, but we are also taking more refugees than average. We are a country that absorbs quite a lot of refugees. The view that we are reducing our budget in order to spend more on care is absolutely not right. I don't deny that the budget OS is falling, but that's not linked to the idea of shifting it to shelter. Those two have nothing to do with each other. In some countries this is the case. In Sweden, these are communicating vessels. They spend a certain percentage on the ODA but when they find that there are more refugees, they decide to reduce on the other dimension. In our country that is absolutely not that logic. There is no connection whatsoever between one and the other, and I may be able to respond to that article.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u5	Minister, I look forward to your response. It is very useful to respond well to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u6	We look forward with interest to the reaction of the author of the article to your comment. Maybe there will be questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u7	Minister, this question is about a novelty in Belgian development cooperation. Anchor Point No. 7 The proposal of the Belgian National Action Plan Business and Human Rights states that Belgium will commit itself to integrating human rights and corporate social responsibility criteria into its strategy to support the development of local private sectors that are part of Belgian development cooperation. This is quite a mouthful, but that's what it says in the Belgian NAP. For this purpose, the main focus will be on the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries (BIO) and the Trade for Development Centre. In your policy paper, you have touched the element of human rights in public-private cooperation several times, without explicitly linking the two. However, there is a major role for private actors in development cooperation, human rights and labour rights, but also social and environmental clauses are inextricably linked. My questions to you are therefore the following. The draft NAP states that CSR criteria will be integrated to support the development of local private sectors within Belgian development cooperation. Can you confirm that this will happen? The current CSR criteria are still vague to be workable and measurable. Will you concreteise these criteria and translate them into measurable objectives? How will you do that and within what time limit? Are you planning to consult on this? Which actors will be involved in these consultations? What will you do to ensure transparency and respect for human rights within the initiatives? Do you foresee, for example, a reporting mechanism or a system of due diligence, due diligence? What's that gonna look like? What will you do in the event of non-compliance or violation of human rights in a relationship involving Belgian development cooperation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u8	The integration of corporate social responsibility criteria has already taken place and will continue. The strategic note on support for the local private sector and the local economy provides for several intervention criteria to be respected in each instrument or programme and any private sector development action. Respect for environmental aspects, social aspects and good governance are criteria for interventions. These elements correspond to the objectives of corporate social responsibility. Many criteria must indeed be translated and made more concrete. It is the first place for each actor of the Belgian development cooperation of private sector development to develop and/or strengthen a follow-up and evaluation system in relation to the ESG aspects and the CSR criteria. This exercise is already taking place in the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries and in the BTC Trade for Development Center and could also be associated with a broader reflection on the performance measurement of each actor of Belgian development cooperation. By the end of the legislature, every actor should be able to measure his performance. It is also intended that these actors harmonise their performance measurement system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u9	As I have just said, the actors and instruments of Belgian development cooperation are going to be involved in private sectors of development activities, need to strengthen their due diligence processes in order to ensure respect for the ESG aspects and compliance with national and international rules and thus with human rights in general. Failure to comply with or breach of intervention criteria or of judicial standards in respect of human rights must be the subject of thorough consultations between the Belgian State and the actor involved in the non-compliance or infringement in order to find an adequate solution as soon as possible. The outcome of the consultations may lead to the suspension or suspension of the action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u10	I understand you will develop some sort of performance mechanism by the end of this year. Is that with the BIO or the BTC?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u11	For the whole thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u12	I see that the Netherlands is doing this very strongly, with very large companies operating in developing countries, such as Heineken. They're getting results there. It is also interesting to look with those actors at how this can best be done. I thought you were going to organise a round of consultations with the Belgian companies, or is it already over?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u13	It took place for the first time about two months ago. We are now working on the further development, in the light of the SDGs, of an alliance between Belgian companies which subscribe to the SDGs in their working methods. Those things are in full swing. SDGs do go a little wider than corporate social responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u14	Mr Crusnière is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u15	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, according to UNOCHA, which is based on figures from the Financial Tracking System, Belgium committed itself to humanitarian aid worth USD 59.7 million. Today, 20.3 million dollars have still not arrived at the organisations concerned. In response to a question I asked you in October 2015, you made the formal promise that everything would be paid by the end of January 2016. I notice today that there are unpaid promises that date back to 6 March 2015. That's over a year. Second point. At the donor conference for the refugee crisis in Syria and neighbouring countries in early February in London, our Prime Minister made a commitment to release another EUR 75 million of EUR 50 million for 2016, EUR 25 million for 2017. This is not yet reflected in the figures published by UNOCHA on its website, at least on 15 April this year. Third and last point I would like to discuss with you. In addition to these two commitments, Belgium also participates in the European Refugee Facility for Turkey. The Belgian contribution to this would be EUR 58 million, payable over four years. For 2016 it would be EUR 17,5 million. In the middle of March, you replied to a question from a colleague that no financial contribution has been paid so far and it was not yet clear from what budget the contributions would come from. First of all, can you give me an up-to-date overview of the amounts already paid by our country for humanitarian aid in Syria and neighbouring countries? Secondly, are the UNOCHA's figures correct that commitments were still not paid out as early as March 2015, when you said that this would be fixed by the end of January? If so, why have these amounts not yet been paid? Thirdly, can you give an overview of the concrete commitments made in 2016 worth $50 million, for which the Prime Minister committed himself in London? Which organisations were promised what amount? Why are these not yet available at UNOCHA? Fourth and last, has our country already paid its financial contribution to the Turkey Refugee Facility? Is today clear what budget this will come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u16	Madam President, this question was linked to a question by Mr Crusnière and that is why the answer is in the two languages. I suppose this isn't a problem. Belgium committed the promised amounts in 2015, i.e. €70,038,365. Indeed, only €3,163,365 was liquidated. This is due to the nature of the funding tools. Indeed, only the projects are liquidated in their entirety in 2015. International humanitarian funds are liquidated in two tranches over two years, namely 2015 and 2016. 51.6 million in expenditure was decided. The settlement date, this is the date on which the Budget and Administration Service orders payment to the NGO or international organisation that will manage the project or fund, of the individual interventions we summarized in a table. All payments were made in 2015 or in January 2016. The money not used in 2015 is therefore not lost, but will be liquidated in 2016. The contribution to Turkey Refugee Facility, which totals EUR 58 million, of which at least EUR 17.4 million will be contributed this year, has not yet been paid in. This cost will be borne by the interdepartmental commission on Asylum and Migration. Then I arrive at 2016. Of the 50 million announced by the Prime Minister in London, EUR 26 875 000 have already been paid to humanitarian funds for disaster relief in Syria, Libya, Jordan and Turkey, as well as to UNICEF's humanitarian fund for Syria. This means that the Budget and Management Service will be ordering payment in the near future. All these payments should normally be completed by the end of May. The administration has made proposals of EUR 14.25 million to my firm. I shall shortly make a decision on this matter. This also means that the administration will still make me proposals of the order of nine million euros. Twenty-five million will be committed in 2017. Please be aware that I have decided that part of the humanitarian funds for Syria this year will be earmarked for education. Children are, as you point out, particularly weak victims in this conflict. We have therefore paid particular attention to them. In addition to the funding in 2016 of activities specifically aimed at the education of children that I have just mentioned, I can also underline the importance of our support for the UNICEF Humanitarian Action for Children humanitarian fund for Syria, which consists of five million euros in 2016. I would also like to stress that humanitarian organizations working on the basis of humanitarian principles must support the most vulnerable categories of beneficiaries. As such, children are systematically integrated into their needs analysis and are generally included in the categories of beneficiaries to whom assistance, even if sometimes indirect, must be provided. You have received the table of all humanitarian charges for the period 2015-2016 that are directly attributable to Syria and its neighbours. As far as the Financial Tracking System is concerned, I would like to point out that the UNOCHA Financial Tracking System does not allow adequate monitoring of Belgian funding or, by extension, that of other donors. This has a few reasons. First, governments do not communicate directly with the Financial Tracking System. It's the humanitarian organizations that deliver the data. This has implications for the timeliness of recording the data but also increases the likelihood of errors in both the supplier and the recipient of that data. The FTS is outdated in that it does not allow the registration of multi-annual funding, which is often the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u17	I would like to thank the Minister and give a double response. The needs are very high. We have received reports in recent weeks and months on the very difficult conditions in which many refugees are in Syria and in neighbouring countries. I therefore urge you to continue to put the highest pressure so that the sums are paid in good time. These funds are particularly useful. Secondly, I have received your list and I have also heard your comments on the Financial Tracking System. I'll cross-reference those two data. In addition, I have noted in particular that you have reaffirmed that Belgium will have fulfilled all its 2015 obligations by the end of May. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u18	You heard right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 10330 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u20	Mr President, Minister, in 2009, then Minister for Development, Charles Michel asked for the very first vision text on scholarships at DGOS, which was published under a long French title. It appeared that there was in fact no policy on scholarships before and that no statistics were available. The BTC was then instructed to keep statistics. Since those statistics were not available until then, there were also no data available on, for example, the ratio of male versus female students who came to study with a scholarship in Belgium. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you give an update on the policy of grants in the context of development cooperation? For example, how many foreign students received a grant in the period 2009 to 2016 in the context of development cooperation? Do you have any idea about the relationship between male and female students? Are there any significant trends to be noted in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, first of all I would like to outline the history. An evaluation of the non-project-related grants was carried out in 2007. It was found that no statistics were available on the stock exchanges financed by Belgian Development Cooperation. In order to remedy this situation, the BTC carried out a reference study in 2010 on the beneficiaries of the grants financed by the DGD. In 2009, the BTC also created a database in which all stock exchanges and partner countries data are centrally managed and all contracts, payments and insurance are centrally monitored. Since 2010, a new strategy for grants has been implemented. A strategy paper was drawn up in 2011 and applied from 2012. The aim of the Strategy is to provide an appropriate response to the demand for better competences for sustainable support of the beneficiary institutions and organisations, starting from an integrated programme aiming at the transfer of acquired knowledge and competences. The stock exchange interventions are based on three pillars. First of all, the individual. Grants shall be awarded to persons to improve their competences on the basis of the real needs of the beneficiary institutions and organisations. Secondly, the organization. The trained staff shall resume their duties in the beneficiary institutions and organisations and contribute to the development of the institution or organisation. Finally, the whole sector. Training is in line with the sector and partner's thematic strategies. The new grant strategy also limits the scope of intervention to the priority sectors and areas of the government cooperation programme to achieve greater impact. At the same time, the new strategy gives priority to local and regional study grants in order to make grants accessible to a wider public and to improve training opportunities in partner countries. A total of around 21 000 people benefited from a grant for the period 2010-2015. The vast majority of beneficiaries, around 80%, followed their training in the partner country itself and were followed by the BTC representatives. The majority of these are local or regional grants. About 20% of the beneficiaries come to study in our country. Overall, in the period 2010-2015, 64 percent of beneficiaries were male and 36 percent were female. However, we are seeing a growing trend towards more women in that period. The aim is that at least 50% of grants go to women during this term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u22	Mr President, I can only welcome the fact that there is a better gender distribution in awarding these grants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u23	Minister, the first world conference on humanitarian aid will take place in Istanbul on 23 and 24 May. I asked you a question about this in autumn 2015, but it was still too early to make it clear what priorities you would draw to Istanbul. Many humanitarian organisations have already raised the alarm regarding their security, especially in conflict areas, when providing humanitarian aid. You replied to me at the time that both a European and a Belgian position was being prepared around objectives and priorities. In the meantime, we have been six months ahead of us and it is time that we knew that position. Minister, what are the concrete Belgian priorities and objectives in the field of humanitarian aid and security for humanitarian organisations, which will bring our country to Istanbul next month? Which specific actors were consulted? Is the position unanimously supported and supported by your administration and the field of work? What position has Belgium taken in recent months in the European Union in preparation for the World Humanitarian Summit? What are the final European priorities with which the EU will move to Turkey next month? What proposals will the EU put on the table to achieve these priorities and objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u24	I will briefly explain the Belgian draft position and point out in advance that it will not be recorded until the meeting of COORMULTI on 2 May. That will be a second meeting of COORMULTI on the subject. I hope the latter too, but people never know for sure. Given the dramatic increase in humanitarian needs in the world and the increasingly complex humanitarian landscape, the first World Humanitarian Summit will be convened in Istanbul on 23 and 24 May this year. Belgium is convinced of the crucial importance of the WHS for all humanitarian actors to give a new impetus to the global humanitarian system. Belgium, as a major humanitarian donor, puts the WHS high on the agenda and has been preparing for the event for a long time. During the preparations various actors were consulted, i.e. actors from the field of work such as Belgian humanitarian NGOs, international humanitarian organisations and the various administrative services, so that one can also assume a generally accepted position. This process led to the creation of a Belgian position paper, in which Belgium presents its views for the WHS. Belgium has put forward a number of priorities and objectives. Firstly, due to the high proportion of conflict-related crises......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We also draw attention to the primary responsibility of states in terms of the protection and needs of their own people. Secondly, since humanitarian principles must be respected and international humanitarian law standards respected, this also means that the security of humanitarian organisations' staff must be respected. Thirdly, we are in favour of moving towards a coherent, inclusive and fit for purpose humanitarian system, aiming at context and needs-based approaches to putting beneficiaries back at the centre of the process. Furthermore, the Belgian position focuses on three themes: We focus, firstly, on the most vulnerable groups through local response. Secondly, it is about investing in disaster preparedness as part of the resilience agenda. It is important to take concrete steps to bridge the gap between humanitarian aid and development, both for disasters and for conflict situations. Investing in disaster preparedness has a huge potential in terms of long-term cost reduction. The role of the private sector is diverse, from the provision of sometimes but not always commercial systems for preparedness and the provision of emergency services to the provision of services in the context of the rapid resurrection of a community after a disaster. Past humanitarian disasters show that the population suffers more in communities where the private sector is missing or that activities resume very slowly. Think of delivering goods and services or supply chains of food. Thirdly, we focus on promoting innovation in the humanitarian sector, such as innovative funding tools, such as Humanitarian and Development Impact Bonds, and new technologies. The importance of partnerships with the private sector in this respect is immense, all in accordance, of course, with humanitarian and ethical principles. Advantages are the empowerment of victims and more efficient humanitarian aid. As for your second question, the European Union has prepared a preliminary version of the European Council conclusions. However, the improvement process of the conclusions is still ongoing. On behalf of all its Member States, the EU is endeavouring to take a joint position for the WHS. The EU puts the following high priorities on the agenda: to ensure access to humanitarian aid and to respect international humanitarian law and to drive far-reaching reforms in the humanitarian system so that humanitarian assistance could become more effective and efficient. This requires greater coherence between humanitarian aid and development in the area of financing and programming. During that process, Belgium fully supported the EU and actively contributed to the improvement and optimisation of the European Council conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u25	Indeed, Minister, we must attach greater importance to humanitarian aid. I remember from the past that a budget was provided for when a disaster would happen, but these disasters follow each other very quickly. We must take a clear position at Belgian level on how we deal with this. Are we going to work with local actors or are we going to use B-FAST? If so, at what point do we do so? I sometimes have the impression that people who are already working on the ground are being ignored and that there is too much movement with Belgian actors coming from outside. However, this position of disaster preparation must be clearly emphasized, as it clearly states that local actors must be involved. I fully support that. It is also important that disasters trigger migratory flows that are being worked with local actors, to see what happens immediately after the disaster, how people are being taken care of and how they can act back in an economy that has been completely knocked down. We need to put much more energy and content into it than in the past, when we started to help from a humanitarian perspective. We really need to make sure that it is built up now. That must be an important accent. So I look forward to our final position as well. Mr President, perhaps a report can follow on how that position is taken on a global scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u26	Mrs. Pehlivan has let you know she's sick. Minister, she hopes that you will include her question in your answer. It would make her happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u27	Mr President, it may also make it easier for her to recover.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u28	It is highly likely that your answer will have a very positive impact on the development of her state of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u29	Mr President, at least the answers have a healing effect on me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u30	You haven't heard the answers yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u31	Minister, your previous answers were healing. We are moving on to a disaster, particularly the earthquake in Ecuador. Current estimates indicate 235 deaths and more than 600 injuries. Ecuador is an exit country for Belgian development cooperation. So we're in an exit program. Besides our own programme, many Belgian NGOs are active in Ecuador, such as Plan Belgium, Trias, 11.11.11 and the WWF. My questions are as follows. Firstly, in what way do we respond today to that fact? The disaster or earthquake occurred on 17 April 2016. How many NGOs and other actors are still present in Ecuador? How many people are we talking about? How many persons and organisations have been officially confirmed that they will remain active in Ecuador in the near future? What are the consequences of the earthquake on those intentions? Secondly, has the administration been in contact with these organisations? How are they? What damage have they suffered in the earthquake? What does their near future look like? Has our administration been in contact with the government in Ecuador? Where can Belgium provide support or has Belgium provided support through humanitarian aid? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, first of all, the Consortium 12-12 is autonomous in its decisions. The Consortium 12-12 has not so far contacted the DGD regarding the earthquake in Ecuador. A total of fourteen NGOs work in Ecuador with programme funding for 2014-2016. Three NGOs received project funding for 2015-2016 and four NGOs received complementary funding for a project related to the bilateral programme in Ecuador. Only a few of them work with co-operatives from Belgium. They are not recognised to provide crisis assistance but to implement development programmes. If their partners have specific needs, they can always request notification of their programme to the administration. All Belgian actors in the region were questioned about the impact of the earthquake. Most of the programmes under way were fairly intact from the disaster if they were not active in the worst affected region. Others are still in the process of listing needs and considering asking for adjustments to current funding to respond to them. National solidarity actions were mentioned, but no demand for support to the DGD has been raised so far. In October 2016, NGOs will reapply for the period 2017-2021. The DGD is currently unable to assess whether the earthquake programmes to be submitted will respond to their consequences. The programmes implemented by NGOs have been identified on the basis of the needs of local partners. For 2017, NGOs may place greater emphasis on schools under their right of initiative. The DGD has contacted the organisations working in Ecuador from Lima and Brussels. For the time being, there are four deaths among the target group of the actions of some NGOs, namely three students from ACTEC and one child from Plan Belgium, but there are no deaths among the employees within the programme itself. Material damage was reported in some cases, for example in the Office of Plan Belgium in Manabi, but the reported damage can mainly be found in the partner organisations of the Belgian actors, for example VECO's partners in Esmeraldas and the pilot schools in collaboration with VVO in Manabi. In general, the organisations therefore think they can continue their important work in that region. However, some suggest that consideration should be given to a necessary reorientation or adjustment of their programme at this stage. In the meantime, several organisations also organise solidarity actions and emergency relief on the ground, for example by receiving hundreds of families at a school in Guayaquil, partner of VIA Don Bosco. Protos conducts research on drinking water in the region and there are also collections of partners of 11.11.11. After the frequent volcanic eruptions of recent years, the earthquake is a new disaster for the country, which has already suffered a severe economic recession. There was no direct contact with the Ecuadorian government, as we no longer have an embassy or diplomatic representation in Quito. Our embassy in Lima, responsible for the region, has provided the Ecuadorian government's request for support to the administration. The humanitarian budget did not provide additional funding for Ecuador. There will therefore be no funding through humanitarian projects or programmes. From the humanitarian budget, we do contribute through our contributions to the general resources of international humanitarian organisations, the so-called core contributions. In 2016, Belgium already paid 20 million to four organisations on the core budget line: ICRC, UNOCHA, UNRWA and UNHCR. In particular, contributions to UNOCHA and UNHCR are relevant in this context. I also refer to the contributions to the global flexible funds. These are multi-donor humanitarian funds, to which Belgium also contributes. These can be used for crises worldwide. Belgium has already paid EUR 17.1 million to such funds in 2016. The Central Emergency Response Fund is undoubtedly the most important for this crisis. It has announced, through UN Under-Secretary-General Stephen OhioBrien, the release of $7 million to launch life-saving interventions in the fields of logistics, shelter, water, hygiene and healthcare. As far as the budget for direct bilateral cooperation is concerned, Ecuador is no longer a partner country of Belgium, since the current government has decided to focus on 14 and no longer on 18 partner countries. The projects will be completed. I have also asked my services to examine the extent to which ongoing projects can and should be re-directed in order to best respond to the needs arising from this series of earthquakes. As part of the transition phase applied to the ongoing programmes, the funds provided for in the specific exit programme for Ecuador will be accelerated, which should further strengthen the health sector for the disaster areas of Esmeraldas and Manabi within the framework of the original objectives of this programme. A budget of EUR 450 000 is still available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-26-54-commissie-ic394x.u33	Mr Minister, I would like to summarize your answer. The NGOs have not asked for additional support, I understand. You are prepared to provide a bit through the bilateral. Through the multilateral, of course, we are pouring into the global greenhouse. Is that right? [[Assent]]
