ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the United States has apparently formally asked Belgium to extend its military mission against Islamic State to Syria when the Belgian F16s resume their bombings in July. The U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter did this through a letter. The Netherlands opted some time ago to extend the operation to Eastern Syria to attack important strategic goals in the supply lines of IS towards Iraq. Specifically for this purpose, the restriction on the use of Dutch F16s in Eastern Syria is partially lifted. No actions to the benefit of the Assad regime shall be carried out. The duration of the deployment of the Dutch F16s is unchanged until June 2016. Then our F16 will take over the assignment. You explained earlier that the Dutch decision is separate from our mission. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, when did you receive the official question from the United States? Secondly, has this question already been discussed within the government? If so, what is the outcome of this discussion? Thirdly, has there been any consultation with your Dutch colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u2	Minister, what progress has been made within the government on the American demand for an extension of the Belgian mandate of the F16s from Iraq to Syria? What elements do you consider? In the past, you have spoken positively about such military action. What is the legal basis for you? How do you respond to the determination of specialists in international law that UN Resolution 2249 is not sufficient because it does not refer to Chapter VII of the UN Charter? Moreover, the right to self-defense presupposes an attack from state to state, according to international law. It is not because a different practice or political interpretation has grown, that this makes legal sense. How do you respond to the view that fragile political progress with actors such as Russia and even the Assad regime can be called into question by extending military intervention by NATO countries? What is the military situation on the ground in Syria? Which countries are currently militaryly active in Syria? How much did the military operation with the F16s cost in Iraq in 2015 and what is the estimate for 2016? What extra cost does an extension of the mission to Syria have? Like both gross ais net figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u3	Minister, as part of the international coalition against the Islamic State, Belgium deployed six F-16s, from October 2014 to the end of June 2015, to carry out bombing missions strictly confined to Iraqi territory. At the end of the 9 months of operation, the Netherlands took over, in accordance with the alternation agreed in these two countries. While the Council of Ministers has already decided to extend its participation in the international coalition by one year from 1 July 2016, by again making available four F-16 fighters and a contingent of 110 men, the US Secretary of Defense has recently issued an official request to your services with a view to extending our future military air operations to Syrian territory. Finally, in the event of a military air intervention in Syria, the Belgian army would not have a Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) unit within our armies, which will ensure the recovery of our pilots on the ground in the event of the destruction of their aircraft. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. What follow-up are your services planning to reserve at this request of the US Secretary of Defense to extend our military operations to Syrian territory? Is the question of an international mandate currently considered a sine qua non for Belgium's military intervention on Syrian territory? In the event of an expansion of our military operations, is Defence exploring the possibility of strengthening the capabilities currently available to the international coalition? Do your services confirm this lack of a SIRC unit and, if so, have they ever developed an in-house approach or in collaboration with other allied forces to ensure the recovery of our pilots on the ground? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u4	Mr Minister, last week my group, like all the Belgians, took note of the formal request from the United States to our country to extend its military intervention against Daesh to Syria as early as July. For the PS group, the Belgian response cannot be given to the rush and requires the involvement of the parliament. We remember your statements last September when you were ready to send troops to Syria. It was in this sense that I interviewed the Prime Minister before the Easter break in plenary session. He promised us an in-depth debate in Parliament, indispensable for us, where ministers will explain the overall strategy. And let us not be mistaken about the debate. For us, it is a matter of all means being used in this fight against terrorism and against Daesh. It is in this sense that my group has supported and continues to support military intervention through our F-16s in Iraq, as foreseen in the September 2014 resolution. Extending this mission to Syria is therefore outside the clear perimeter of the resolution. Such an intervention cannot be carried out outside a UN framework, which has been absent so far. I would add that the answers given as to the soundness of the legal basis – I am talking about the French resolution – differ between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. What is the exact content of the request made to our country by the strikes of our F-16s over Syria? When does the government intend to give its answer? When will the House be consulted on this subject as promised by the Prime Minister? If so, will a resolution be voted on? From an operational point of view, how can such an extension of our military intervention be made possible when there is no clear UN mandate? In this context, how can the Belgian army define the targets of such strikes? Will we collaborate with the Assad regime? I immediately follow up with my question No 10066. As I indicated earlier, the formal request of the United States to our country to extend its military intervention against Daesh to Syria as early as July raises many questions both politically and operationally. This is the key issue of the security of our military who would be sent there in intervention if the government so decided. Indeed, in the absence of a Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) rescue capability within our army, it should rely on allied rescue capabilities. Syria is not Iraq, and the air fighting conditions there are much more delicate. This is evidenced by the congestion of the airspace, where almost 100 combat aircraft are permanently active, plus an unknown number of drones as well as the new Syrian fighter equipped by the Russians. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, which are essential if the government were to decide on a Belgian military intervention over Syria: if a Belgian F-16 was to be shot down, what procedure would be followed to allow the rescue of the Belgian pilot who had fallen on the ground? What procedure is already applicable in our other operations where the Belgian F-16s are deployed? What is the procedure applied in the case of the Dutch army, which is already involved in the air strikes in Syria against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u5	Mr Minister, the situation has already been outlined, so I will immediately ask my questions. The decision to participate in the international coalition and to help in Syria has not yet been taken. What timing will there be a parliamentary debate before a decision is taken in the government? What elements does the government want to have before replying to the US? Has there been a risk analysis of the fact that we would fly over Syria and possibly help with that? Are additional security measures being taken for our pilots and planes? What would be the cost of that possible mission? Is Belgium also considering the option of contributing to the fight against IS in Syria in non-compatible ways?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u6	Minister, Islamic State, has attacked our country again. Like Al Qaeda, she works with a network of religiously radicalized followers, who are recruited and prepared by the leadership in Syria to commit attacks. The US Congress condemned IS unanimously for genocide on 14 March last. The systematic crimes against humanity were committed on Yezidis, Christians, Kurds, Shiites and other minorities in Syria. Our fighters stopped their actions in June last year. Yet our country became the target of a repulsive attack and propaganda campaign of IS. Our soldiers and police services are undoubtedly doing excellent work in our streets, but that does not seem to be enough against the puppet masters of IS, who run criminals from abroad and brainwash vulnerable young people in our society with religious madness. Mr Minister, first of all, how can our country fight back against the leaders and organisers of IS, who have indoctrinated, trained and equipped the perpetrators of the repulsive attack? Secondly, is our country now in a state of legitimate self-defense, such as France after the attack in Paris last year? Thirdly, has the UN Security Council condemned the cowardly attack and recognised our right under Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations? Fourthly, do we receive military assistance from our allies from the EU and/or NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u7	On 3 March last, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that he was in favour of the extension of the Belgian military mission in Iraq to Syria when the Belgian F16 people resumed their bombings in July. A few questions followed in Question Time on 3 March. The same day there was another meeting of the Council of Ministers on the bombing of Syria. According to the media, however, there was no agreement there: the government had spoken about Syria, but had not reached an agreement. No one in the government is really looking forward to bombing Syria. They want to consider it, but a vice prime minister told me it's gonna require a lot of consultation. A few weeks later, Mr John Kerry comes to Belgium and apparently an agreement has been found in the government. Apparently a certain American pressure is very efficient here in Belgium. Mr Michel said on the one hand that we should show solidarity and therefore intervene. He also said, however, that we should actually take stock of our interventions in other countries. He referred, among other things, to Libya, which he believed would be a bad example. Apparently, there is a discussion about the results. Mr Minister, under fairly similar conditions, after the Madrid attacks, Spain took exactly the opposite decisions. The Spanish government has decided to withdraw from the bombings abroad so that it is no longer involved in all these multinational interests which have repercussions on its own territory. I see that Belgium is taking a completely different option than Spain after the Madrid attacks. My question is very clear. Has a serious analysis been made of the various implications of the bombing of Belgium in Syria? What will be the costs of such an operation? Is there a scenario to get out of this Syrian mess? Entering war is not too complicated, just press the joysticks. But how can we get out of such a war? We know, and it is very clear in the current negotiations in Geneva, that a solution can only be inclusive on the ground. We also know that the various rebels, who are called democratic but are quite Islamists, have withdrawn from the negotiating tables to ask for a little more weapons. What is the plan to get the Belgian state out of this Syrian quagmire?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the letter from the US Secretary of Defense dates from 26 February 2016, three days later than I said earlier. The final decision whether or not to extend military operations against Daesh beyond Syrian territory with the conditions that will be attached to it will be taken by the government as a whole. I therefore oppose Mr Hedebouw as if we had not reached an agreement before and in the meantime. But we did deal with the question. I repeat what I also told the media: I am personally convinced that we must fight Daesh wherever it is, but such decisions with the framework conditions, coupled with possible participation, are best taken as late as possible and as close as possible to the moment of deployment, because we have the latest information available. The decision is therefore taken by the government as a whole. There is no need for specific consultations with my Dutch colleague, Mr Top, although of course we are in constant dialogue with the Dutch and the other members of the coalition who carry out similar tasks. In any case, the possible extension of the military intervention area by Belgium will not undermine progress in political negotiations. The legal mandate can be based on Article 51 of the UN Charter, within the framework of Iraq's right to collective self-defence, which is still the subject of an armed attack by Daesh from Syrian territory. In the context of legal collective self-defence, therefore, it is not necessary to obtain a resolution from the United Nations Security Council. Belgium itself has not relied on this and is therefore not in a state of individual legal self-defense which did not invoke Article 51 following the attacks in Brussels. The members of the UN Security Council strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in Brussels and expressed their solidarity with Belgium, without referring to Article 51, but to the relevant Resolutions 2199 and 2253 of 2015. These resolutions make it possible to take measures to prevent and suppress the financing of terrorism, terrorist organisations and terrorists by all means. I would like to refer to the strong wording of those two resolutions, such as eradicate. For the deployment of Defence in support of the federal police, Defense will receive effective assistance from the United States, which will soon be addressed in another question in the form of material support and expertise. As regards the military situation on the ground in Iraq and Syria, I would refer you to the committee responsible for monitoring foreign missions. Regarding the cost of our contribution in 2015 and 2016, I would like to refer you to at least five other answers and discussions on this at previous meetings of the Defence Committee. Any extension of our military operations beyond Syrian territory will have no impact on the composition of the supporting detachment or on the costs planned for that operation. There are six F16 on site, two of which are always available. So it's not four, it's six F16s, Mrs. Jadin. Whether they fly over Syria or Iraq makes no financial difference. The risk analysis has been made as always and is constantly updated. That is why I say that it is not necessary to make a decision very quickly; we can take them at the last minute. The Netherlands has imposed a regional restriction, also for certain political reasons. We must also consider that, in order to avoid side effects, such as the unwanted support of the Assad regime, we must not interfere in domestic politics by harassing the wrong people. That is why the Netherlands opted for a regional demarcation of its contribution. As far as risk analysis is concerned, I don't know where your information comes from. With respect to Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) assets, they are available in theatre in a centralized manner. These are resources made available by the coalition. No Belgian F-16 will air unless it can be guaranteed that the intervention zone is covered by the means available at this very moment, means which must satisfy our criteria for intervention. The final decision to let the aircraft take off is the responsibility of the Belgian liaison team within the Combined Air Operations Centre. Thus, the safety of our pilots is ensured at all times. The Dutch Air Force, currently active in Iraq and Syria, is relying on these same means, SIRC. As a member of the international coalition, Belgium has been participating in the military battle against Daesh since September 2014. In addition to his efforts by F1673, in cooperation with our Dutch allies, and the training of Iraqi forces, Belgium is also involved in the working group to prevent IS from obtaining financial income, in the working group that charts and combats foreign terrorist fighters, and in the working group that denies Daesh' propaganda messages and denounces the true nature of the terrorist group. In short, in addition to our active contribution in the field, we are active in various working groups. At the moment, no additional non-military means are being considered by Defence for the fight against Daesh Syria, but we are, of course, prepared to examine any new question from the coalition or from the Belgian Chamber of Representatives as to their feasibility. To make a long story short, I am convinced that Daesh must be defeated by all means that present themselves, wherever Daesh may be. However, I am also convinced that the safety of our own people is paramount. Therefore, the analysis should be 100 % up-to-date so that we can make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only join you when you say that the analysis should be 100 % up-to-date. I am not talking about the substance of the debate now, and I deliberately did not mention a possible extension of the intervention in Syria in my question. That debate is very broad; my fellow Members have already indicated it. I would remind you, however, of your commitment to at least hold a parliamentary debate on this issue. It is not Parliament that decides, it is the government that decides. You have already indicated that that decision will be taken shortly before 1 July. I would like to keep your promise that at least a proper parliamentary debate will be preceded, where the analysis can be made, before the decision is taken. The past has shown that a similar decision had already been taken and the aircraft had left the Belgian airspace before Parliament was informed or at least allowed to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u10	Mr Top, I hadn't said it yet, but I confirm that I will keep my promise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u11	Mr President, I will also stick to speaking time, because since last week everyone is afraid of you. Minister, I hope that you will analyse again whether an extension of air bombardment is actually necessary at the moment and whether Syria does not need any other matters at the moment. ISIS will have to be defeated militaryly at some point, but I think we need to look at the results of the bombings so far. The bombings couldn't defeat IS. I therefore naturally wonder whether an extension of the bombings is a solution. The rest of the debate will undoubtedly follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u12	Minister, thank you for this information. You put some things back in their place. I was based on an article I read in Le Soir. I think it was important to reframe things with respect to the Combat Search and Rescue unit. In due course, you and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will probably give us the opportunity to discuss in greater depth on an important subject of which we know the international issues, namely the possibility of Belgium extending or not extending the mission to other territories.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u13	Minister, thank you for your full answers. We believe that Daesh must be combated, but within a solid international legal framework. You have given legal arguments which differ somewhat from those of the Prime Minister and which differ themselves from those of the Minister of Foreign Affairs! It would be good to have harmonisation and to have something on the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the decision will be taken as late as possible in the government. That allows us to hold a parliamentary debate in advance. I did not receive an answer to my last question about the non-compattive ways of contributing in Syria. I suppose that'll be part of the risk analysis that's being made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u15	I am Minister of Defence, so I answer the questions relating to military aspects. I can add the following to what Mr Top said. We have talked about this in the government. We have received this question and we have examined what legal bases we could use. That's some of them. A number of members of the government, including the Minister for Development Cooperation, asked whether we could not consider contributing to a 3d approach to dialogue. That is, of course, my wish. We are also doing so partly through the training of Iraqi security forces from Baghdad. Questions were asked about the military contribution. That's my jurisdiction, so that's what I'm going to do. My risk analysis concerns the risk rather than the opportunity. However, I am convinced that a 3d approach to dialogue is needed, so the Defence part is part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u16	Minister, the day after tomorrow it is a month since ISIS in Brussels made a repulsive attack on our society. Following the attacks in Paris, the French Government reacted immediately to ISIS in Syria. I am convinced that our national security services will do everything in their power to prevent a repetition, but we have done nothing so far against that organisation and the puppet masters. Those are the ones who are undermining our democracy and our values. I hope that this will change and that we will be committed and loyal to an international coalition against IS in Syria. I am convinced that bombardments by our fighter planes are indeed useful. The reports say that 20 000 Syrian fighters have already been eliminated by these bombings, and it is hoped that the final offensive can be launched before the summer. We cannot therefore say that these bombings do not make any sense. At least I don't feel like offering the other cheek. So I hope that we will help to eradicate the cancer that has become IS, and then I will use the words of the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u17	I disagree with the last speaker. It is precisely our past bombings that have created areas of international law. Let it be now in Libya, Afghanistan, Syria, we continue. It's still great that in politics, you arrive, you make mistakes, you draw up a balance sheet. Even Prime Minister Charles Michel says that Libya is a disaster. In spite of this, we continue! This is quite impressive from a political point of view. We're chasing straight into the wall. I think we're clearly exporting a war. What is new at the moment is that this war is returning to our territory. It's the sequence that just opened on March 22. I am surprised that there is no challenge to this issue. In any case, I am surprised by the American strategy. The existence of an ethnic division in Iraq was clearly known. This is what happened for five to six years after the American intervention in the region. In fact, we have the same scenario built today for Syria. We really want to subdivide for this creation of what the Americans call the Great Middle East, that is, a large completely compartmentalized area in which the United States would be involved. I hope that we will indeed have a debate in Parliament. I would point out that the last time we had it was only because we were in the business of day-to-day affairs and it was exceptional that democracy could express itself on a decision to enter the war. I hope that this time, it will still be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u18	Mr Minister, my question was put a long time ago. Some of the figures in my question are therefore already obsolete. Following a new analysis of the terrorist threat, the National Security Council decided that nuclear power stations and nuclear sites should be monitored by military forces in the future. 140 soldiers would be deployed for that purpose. In addition, Defense will certainly remain secure until April, and I suspect for some time now, other strategic places in our country. I suspect that the figure of 700 soldiers I have quoted in my question is already wrong. More soldiers are being deployed today. 40 more soldiers had also been added. Of this group of soldiers, 140 must be responsible for monitoring nuclear power stations and nuclear sites. The assignment itself would be paid by Electrabel. I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm that this additional mission will be financed by Electrabel? Secondly, until recently, 700 soldiers were actively engaged in security missions. The new assignment will ensure that 40 additional military personnel are deployed. A total of 140 soldiers would be deployed to monitor nuclear power stations and nuclear sites. Which share will Electrabel pay exactly? Is it about the 40 extra military or 140 military in total? Thirdly, 100 soldiers see their orders shifting from their former security posts to the security of the nuclear sites. Was this an increase in working pressure or was the number of places to be monitored drastically reduced? Finally, during the Internal Affairs Commission of 18 February, Minister Jambon stated that he would free up additional capacity to monitor nuclear sites. Will the DOD take over the entire security mission or will the police cooperate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u19	Madam President, Mr Top, on 17 March 2016, the Council of Ministers decided that Defence billed to the federal police per calendar month, based on the performance of last month's performance. For the armed response capacity of 140 military in the nuclear power stations, a lump sum per military and per day will be billed, which will cover the full cost of this deployment for Defence. For the reimbursement arrangements between Electrabel and the police, please refer to my colleague, Mr Jambon, who is responsible for this matter. This capacity is independent of the effectives intended to support the federal police in the existing posts. It is of course a bit strange that your question was somewhat overtaken by March 22nd. At that time, we were working towards standardization, but since the events of 22 March, the number of posts for Operation Vigilant Guardian has increased considerably and the number of military personnel supplied by Defence in support of the federal police has been dramatically increased. The deployment on the nuclear sites is combined with the existing security services such as G4S or Securitas. The mission of the military is to support the federal police for the security of the perimeter of the nuclear power stations. It's about a rapid reaction unit that's active inside the plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u20	Madam President, I will try to stick to the timing. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The figures have changed effectively. The number of military personnel deployed for the Homeland operation has increased. I am particularly concerned after listening to an interview with a general of the Air Force on The Journal of 18h. He expressed his concern as to whether, given the great commitment of our military to the Homeland operation, the army could continue to carry out all its tasks. He also warned against a shortage of influx that this guarantee could undermine even more. I would like to ask you once again to guarantee the implementation of the Homeland operation. In addition, I would also like to see the other tasks of the Defence Committee, including training - guaranteed, so that the Defence Department can maintain its operational capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u21	A correction, I don't think it's up to you to distinguish colors, but if you told the general in question that he's from the Air Force, something might happen to your country. In addition, you will not hear me say it soon, certainly not about the relevant weekly, but I would advise you to buy Humo next week and read what the common man thinks of his commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u22	Mr. Secretary, I apologize for the slip of the tongue. It is indeed a general of the army. For the sake of clarity, I have not spoken about how the modal Belgian looks at the assignment he is carrying out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u24	Minister, it has been decided in a few years to replace our C130 fleet with 7 A400M devices. However, this programme is currently having increasing problems. A Turkish plane has already crashed. On 1 April we could also read in the German media that serious problems have been identified with the engines. Hence my questions. Will the planning of the delivery of these devices be compromised? Can we easily bridge the time until delivery with our C130 fleet? After all, it seems that the delay will drag on for a long time. How many of our C130 devices will normally remain usable until we have the full capacity of the A400M devices? Does this have an impact on the cost of our participation? Is there any discussion with other participating countries about the possible postponement? Have you heard of the problems that have arisen in Germany with the A400M devices? Can you give us a status report? Finally, is compensation provided for a late delivery or for problems with the device?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u25	Mr Van Mechelen, the delivery of the 7 Belgian A400M devices is planned for the period April 2019 to November 2020. At present there are contractual rebaselining negotiations, as it is called, which may affect the delivery date and/or modalities for the participating countries. The current C130 fleet of 11 aircraft will be phased out as the A400M units are put into service and on the basis of the remaining technical potential. Belgium's investment visa for participation in the A400M programme is EUR 1 189 000 000. The participating countries, including Belgium, work together through the matching agency OCCAR, which, among other things, is responsible for implementing the global support concept and the compatibility of airworthiness standards. Belgium and Luxembourg have also decided to place their entire fleet under the command of the EATC in order to make the best use of it. In addition, the EATC plans to standardise the training and qualification of staff and maintenance procedures between participating countries. The current problems within the A400M programme have an impact on the countries already flying with the A400M. For Belgium, the estimated impact is rather small, as the industry maintains what it calls recovery planning, which aims to resolve all problems before the scheduled delivery date of the first Belgian A400M device. The contract provides for financial compensation if the delivery date cannot be respected. It also provides mechanisms for accepting or not accepting ordered A400M devices with technological disadvantage or defects. In this case, the OCCAR will negotiate compensation between the participating countries and industry. In any event, the constructor is obliged to retrofit later to the final standard configuration devices that are not supplied in the contractual standard provided. In ordinary human language, this means that the timely delivery of devices that do not meet 100% of all requirements can be negotiated. It's mostly about defense mechanisms, next to the engines. After all, they are still developing. That's the way it works with projects like this. In this case, the aircraft can be accepted, but Airbus must, of course, put the aircraft in full order afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u26	Minister, the message is clear: one should not always be the first to get the best. Since we're a little late, we're good. The good old C-130 pistols will last until the A400 muffins arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u27	I would like to point out that Belgium has joined the A400M programme from the outset. Our delivery was determined on the basis of our needs, with basically a run-off period of 40 years for the C-130. However, that is what we are now getting on with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u28	Mr Minister, yesterday an article appeared in De Morgen on the subject of my question, namely that the US Department of Defense is looking for smart computer hackers. The Pentagon wants the hackers to try to bypass or break the Ministry's digital security, so that they can adapt and improve that security. It's the first time the U.S. government wants to use hackers that way. In large companies, it is common to test security in this way. Tech companies like Google even pay hackers per leak found. The US Secretary of Defense, Aston Carter, states that this is how the good expertise and people are brought in and the weaknesses in the system are found. According to the Pentagon, millions of attempts are made every day to break into the systems of the Department of Defense. For obvious reasons, the Ministry wants to release the computer experts only on the security of public websites of the Pentagon and not on the sites with personal data or other sensitive information. Mr Minister, what is your response to the "Hack" our "Defense Department" programme, the US Department of Defense project? The Pentagon is systematically endorsed by hackers. Are you in possession of figures on the number of times Belgian defence websites are endorsed? If so, can you tell us? Is there currently, in any way, any form of cooperation between your ministry and hackers? If not, do you think cooperation with moral hackers can contribute to the security of Defense and defence sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u29	Mr Top, I have also taken note of this initiative through the media. Each country is, of course, free to develop its own concept to test the security of computer systems. All the networks in the world, including the Belgian ones, including military networks, are constantly being bombarded with malware. Malware exists in many different forms, ranging from classic, non-targeted spam mails and viruses to specific, targeted detributed denial of service attacks to the renowned DDoS attacks and advanced persistent threats of APT. By the way, there was a DDoS attack on our public website. The non-targeted malware with well-known signatures is often automatically filtered out by the installation and correct configuration of commercial security systems. The detection of more targeted malware requires the deployment of more specific systems and a higher expertise of manual handling. It is not possible to give an exhaustive list of all detected malware, that seems obvious to me. I can confirm that we currently have no cooperation with hackers. After all, Defence is committed to the acquisition of the necessary internal expertise for the security and testing of the networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u30	Minister, each country is, of course, free to choose to what extent it protects itself and tests the systems. That malware does indeed exist in different ways; DDoS attacks are actually for dummies, there are other possibilities that are much more specific and much more dangerous. I am not speaking on the substance of the matter whether the American proposal is so much better, but there is a proverb that says that the best ranger is sometimes the poacher. I would like to ask you to reflect on that proverb and to look at the results of the Americans' project. The previous questioner also said that one should not always be the first, but one has to learn from the projects of other countries. Perhaps you could take that example or take the good things out of it. All we can do is get better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament 10034 by Mr Wouter De Vriendt will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u32	Minister, Air Major General Frederik Vansina, the Air Component's boss, spoke last Saturday in the columns of the Standaard. He claimed that the French air force had recently had to take Russian planes in the vicinity of Touquet. In particular, he said: "Photos we saw in Ramstein show how Russian bombers continue to travel around Europe. I don't think the average Belgian knows that Russian bombers are permanently in our neighbourhood. They fly along the west of Great Britain and Ireland. Last week, they even crossed the Channel. French planes have been hunting them in the vicinity of Touquet. A little further, in Coxide, we should have stopped them." Since the average Belgian does not know that fighter-bombers are patrolling Belgium's allied airspace, could parliamentarians know the date, location and occurrence of these recent Russian air patrols? What initiatives (protests, letters, military and/or diplomatic contacts) have Belgium and/or Defence taken vis-à-vis the Russian army and/or the Russian government? What, according to Defence, are the tactical objectives pursued by the Russian army in carrying out such air missions in these airspaces? Has there been any provision for increased vigilance by the Belgian QRA, in close cooperation with our French, Dutch and British allies and neighbours? Are these, to say the least, worrying incursions by the Russian air force not likely to cause you to redouble your caution in the development of a possible Belgian participation which we have just discussed, in the allied bombings in Syria, and therefore also with Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u33	Mr Dallemagne is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u34	Madam President, Minister, as my colleague has just mentioned, the press has recently relayed information that Russian bombers would regularly fly training flights over the North Sea. In a number of cases, these aircraft would approach national airspace. I quote the Air Component Commander: "They go so far as to simulate real bombings, attacks, as they did in Helsinki, Finland, or Stockholm, Sweden. Most often, they test and see how long it lasts before NATO aircraft intercept them." In the face of these behaviors of Russian aviation, our country is likely to be affected as well. Minister, have the Belgian air forces intercepted Russian aircraft since the beginning of the legislature? If so, how many incidents have occurred? What means of interception do our country have to respond quickly and effectively to these training flights? Is there a cooperation procedure to appeal to our NATO allies in the event of an emergency situation or the impossibility of having a Belgian fighter take off?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u35	Madam President, Minister, the press has recently echoed the increase in incursions by Russian aircraft, including heavy bombers, over the English Channel, near the Belgian, French, Dutch and English coasts. According to this information, in the North Sea, for several years now, Russian strategic bombers have ventured closer and closer to Belgian airspace. Minister, have these incursions required the intervention of the Quick Reaction Alert of our air component or our neighbouring countries? Has a discussion on this within the Alliance been launched, particularly vis-à-vis the Russian authorities, when it appears that Russian military aircraft are permanently operating around Europe? Yesterday I received your answer to one of my written questions. Thank you. See, I'm reading your answers. If I were a believer, I'd say it's kind of my Bible. Every night, I dive into it. You tell me that there was no incursion of military aircraft into Belgian airspace or near our coastal borders for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. The figures you are presenting were, I think, five civil incursions in 2014 and 2015. In 2016, there were drones on February 29, and nothing else. Isn't that a little contradictory? Are these unfounded rumors? I am simply waiting for more information on this written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the flights of Russian bombers mentioned in the press took place on 17 February 2016. The Russian aircraft bypassed Scandinavia by the north, England and Ireland by the west, engulfing over the English Channel. After being intercepted by English and French fighters, the two bombers returned to the same road in the opposite direction. Since these events did not take place over national territory, Belgium was not concerned by the handling of these incidents. The aim of these missions is probably to train crews to conduct navigation flights outside the usual training areas and strategically to demonstrate Russian military capabilities and to test NATO's responses to these situations. Belgium has as a means of intercepting two aircraft of type F-16, of operational permanence or Quick Reaction Alert, the famous QRA. They are part of NATO's integrated airspace defence system. NATO closely monitors any movement of unidentified or unauthorized aircraft in order to respond adequately and synchronously to possible airspace incursions. The operational command centre in Germany coordinates and activates the interventions of the various national QRAs. There is no need for increased vigilance at the level of the Belgian QRA because these QRA aircraft are already in a state of constant vigilance, i.e. they are airborne within 15 minutes. Finally, after consultations with Russia, the 28 NATO allies decided to hold a meeting of the NATO-Russia Council at ambassadorial level today, 20 April 2016. This meeting will take place at NATO headquarters in Brussels. Members of the NATO-Russia Council will discuss, among other things, military activities with particular emphasis on transparency and risk reduction. It is a question of having a mechanism to reduce tensions in the event that an accident occurs between one of our air or naval units and a Russian unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u37	Minister, Major General Vansina said, "A little further, and you're in Coxide." However, in fact, no Russian aircraft has fortunately crossed Belgian airspace. So nothing happened in Belgium. It is therefore inappropriate in the head of a staff member to cause unnecessary concern to citizens about a possible Russian attack. It is of nature, especially in this delicate period of attacks, to create anxiety. Perhaps the objective of part of the staff is also to put on the political agenda the need to replace the F-16s? This may be the objective since there would be a potential threat that is not verified – you just said so. I would like this to be noted in the report. On the other hand, there is a strategic contradiction. On the one hand, NATO aircraft oppose each other in the English Channel and, on the other hand, they will join forces in Syria, objectively at least, with the regime of Bashar al-Assad and therefore Russia. It seems to me that you must call the General Major to order, not only because he says anything but also because he is going to make a strategic mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers to the various questions I asked you. I take note of today's NATO-Russia meeting. We will be attentive to the conclusions that will emerge and we will not hesitate to come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u39	Minister, thank you for your complete answers that satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u40	The distinction between QRA and Renegade needs to be made in terms of procedures. That's where the numbers may differ.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u41	We asked for both. Your answer was perfectly clear. For once I understand something, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u42	Questions Nos 10076, 10861 and 10862 by Mr Denis Ducarme are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u43	Minister, a few months ago you presented the long-awaited Strategic Plan for Defence to this committee. On 22 December some decisions were taken at the Council of Ministers. For example, in the coming years, Defence will be able to invest EUR 9.2 billion. On 13 January this was put forward very briefly at this committee without getting the text on paper. Several members of this meeting, including myself, have repeatedly asked questions about the new deadline set for this Strategic Plan. At the meeting of 2 March last, you said: "It is the responsibility of all parties to take sufficient time to reach agreement on this proposal." Of course, such a strategic plan must be carefully considered. We understand that the government cannot go ice in one night. The original deadline, Easter holiday 2015, has already been exceeded for more than a year. It is now urgent that you take up your political responsibility and urgently seek an agreement with your fellow ministers or perhaps end the whole idea behind this Strategic Plan. If you still want to take action during this term of office, time is short. When can we expect the detailed version of the Strategic Plan? Secondly, how intensive do working groups meet to reach an agreement? Thirdly, how intensive does your cabinet meet with the trade unions about the preparation of this Strategic Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u44	Minister, the Strategic Plan is essential and necessary to give direction to defence for this legislature and for the next few years. The December Christmas agreement laid down a number of principles. There was a performance in committee at the beginning of January. You have explained a number of things about this. The Christmas agreement stated that a final plan would be drawn up by 26 February. A roadmap would also be drawn up two months after the adoption of the Strategic Plan. In the meantime, we have been two months ahead and the final plan is a little late. Minister, what is the state of play? When do you expect to come forward with the plan for Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the opposition for their questions. The text of the Strategic Plan is currently being finalised within the Future Defence Policy Coordination Working Group. This text will be published after approval by the Council of Ministers. There are constant contacts at the level of the Working Party on Policy Coordination Future Defence, my cabinet and the technical working groups at the level of the Defence Staff. Those meetings shall take place weekly or more than weekly. There have been several contacts with the trade unions on the Strategic Plan and these will be further integrated into the implementation phase of the Strategic Plan. Mr Yüksel, I would like to clarify the intention of your question. If, as you say in your introduction, it is important to have a text with the Strategic Plan, then perhaps it is not bad that you also urge the representatives of your party in the working group to make quick choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u46	Mr. Secretary, a thought. You just improved me on land and air force and that the country would be in danger by giving the wrong title.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u47	Your country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u48	Perhaps it was a slip of the tongue, but when I heard you speak of two opposition speakers, perhaps the majority was at risk. Your majority. I would just like to point out that my question is concrete and serious, apart from all the polemics that we have about it. Legislature doesn't last forever. More detailed plans have to be drawn up from the Strategic Plan, on which decisions still have to follow. If all of these still have to be taken in order to give it feasibility and to be able to provide a number of long-term issues from the Strategic Plan, then time is running out. That is why I would like to ask you when the next steps will be taken, when decisions will be taken, so that we can maintain a sound defence in my country and your country in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u49	My question, Minister, is precisely to speed up and not to make you nervous. My position is clear and all the questions I have asked so far go in the same direction. So you don't have to get excited, that's really not necessary. Choices must be made, and this must be done within the government. Your cabinet and the other cabinets are busy working. However, you cannot blame me for asking about the state of affairs here. I would like to emphasise, in this situation and in difficult times, that we insist that the Strategic Plan be presented here as soon as possible so that we can proceed. I do not want to discuss with you the issue of such importance for our military, for the government, and I hope for you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u50	Minister, the VSOA is suing the lack of resources to allow the military to train adequately for the security and security orders in the cities. Moreover, the equipment would still be defective. A total of 1 800 soldiers are already being deployed on the streets, according to the reports of that union, which, according to him, makes the situation increasingly untenable. At the committee meeting of 25 November 2015, you said that the military will receive additional training in the framework of the static surveillance orders. At the same committee meeting, you also said that logistics staff could be used to respond more flexibly and quickly and to allow the planned training of combat units to take place in order to maintain their operationality. I come to the first part: my questions about the training and the effective guarantee of employability. Can you confirm that the trainings have become more flexible by using a record number of soldiers on the street? What training courses are scheduled for today? Has a decision already been taken on the deployment of logistics personnel in static surveillance orders? Is there enough trained staff to carry out the assignment? Do the detachments deployed have sufficient resources to carry out their mission? In the past, there was a shortage of bulletproof vests. Is that a problem again or is it still a problem, now that additional soldiers have been deployed on the street? With the second part, I'm talking about specific facts. On 2 April a number of young people from Molenbeek tried to reach the Beursplein. Those kids were driven back. A number of people were arrested at Beursplein and Molenbeek. So much for the coverage. However, several photos on Twitter and on certain sites showed that Defence was also present in Molenbeek, and this in large numbers, especially in terms of the number of vehicles. Why was Defense present in Molenbeek during the riots? In what context and on the basis of what protocol were the military there? What mission did the military there carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u51	As you know, as we have already pointed out on many occasions, the PS Group welcomes the work of our military in the temporary mission known as Vigilant Guardian to strengthen security in the exceptional and dramatic context that our country knows and that public authorities and municipalities must face. However, such support can only be provided within a clear legal framework, which is indispensable for the proper conduct of this mission and for the physical and legal security of the military personnel who are accompanied by the police in their patrols. This framework has still not been clarified by the government and the human, budgetary and material resources made available to the military appear to be severely lacking. According to the press and trade unions, it is 1,800 soldiers who are now deployed on our streets. According to the SLFP, this reinforcement was done while bulletproof vests are still borrowed from the Americans. Fire drills are removed due to lack of ammunition and equipment has become unsatisfactory or poorly maintained. These are, no doubt, the consequences of this government's budgetary security policies, which we have already denounced on several occasions. Minister, given that the number of military personnel deployed on the Vigilant Guardian mission continues to increase and that this mission is now in the long run, and in the absence of new federal means for police areas, does the government intend to clarify the rules of engagement of the military on our streets in order to ensure the legal security and transparency of these interventions? Is consultation with military and police unions planned? What answers do you give to the military unions about the human, budgetary and material shortcomings of this mission they denounce? Are the security and training of our military guaranteed under these conditions? Are there any budgetary adjustments planned in your department? Since the attacks in Brussels, many users of the Brussels metro have been checked and searched by military patrols. In the current context, such bag searches can only be carried out in the presence and under the eyes of police officers. Under what legal framework do these excavation missions take place? What are the exact tasks assigned to the military during these searches? Does the government finally intend to clarify the current legal situation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u52	Mr Minister, since the terrible attacks of 22 March in Brussels, military personnel initially confined to monitoring missions at certain strategic locations have gradually been forced to play an increasingly important role in public space in Belgium, and in particular in Brussels. While after the Charlie Hebdo massacre, they were strictly stationed in front of sensitive buildings such as the French embassy or the Ministry of the Interior, as soon as after the Paris attacks, they carried out patrols on certain streets, under the responsibility of the police. They are now being asked to carry out systematic body searches at metro stations, some Brussels railway stations and regional airports. This is sometimes done by means of tracking dogs that normally do not leave military quarters. Minister, can you give me the legal basis on which the government is asking the military to carry out systematic body searches? Have the various successive memorandums of understanding between the Inland FPS and Defence made provision for current military searches? The mobilization of tracking dogs by military patrols in charge of these searches is currently being carried out without muzzle. Does the Memorandum of Understanding between Defence and the Inland FPS or a directive of the Inland FPS or Defence provide for this non-use of the muzzle? Otherwise, what is the legal basis for such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u53	Minister, what about the information that military personnel do not have legal permission to conduct searches and that such searches could therefore be illegal in the absence of police presence? If this information is correct, would it not be appropriate to amend the legislation to allow the military to search the bags without the presence of police officers? It is important that we have a solid legal basis for this kind of search, useful in the times that run.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u54	Mr Minister, my questions are in line with the questions put by my fellow Members. Our military have done an excellent job over the past few weeks and months, and we cannot stress that enough. After the attacks of 22 March, the presence of soldiers on the street was increased. According to the U.S. military union, it would be 1 800 men. In order to ensure the continued use of the additional staff, the VSOA believes that additional resources are needed, especially material equipment. That's how we read that there were problems with bulletproof vests. Meanwhile, they would have been borrowed from allies. I'm also talking about baton and pepper spray. Firstly, can you explain the problem? Secondly, has there been consultation with the trade unions on this? What are the concerns of the trade unions? How are you going to do that? Thirdly, a security budget of 400 million was released for the fight against terrorism and radicalism following the attacks in November. What part of it will be used for homeland protection? How will this be concretely tendered? Finally, if our soldiers are permanently deployed in the streets, what is the legal framework within which they can operate? What are they supposed to do and what aren't they allowed to do? Should further steps be taken? Something else came up to me. It may be a small thing, but our military are often filmed on the street, also by foreign channels. There seem to be a lot of complaints about recognizability or unrecognizability. Shouldn't clear instructions be given to both the military and the media? After all, the anonymity of our military must be guaranteed. These images go around the world and it can be dangerous for those involved to be recognizably filmed and shown on television.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u55	The military are called in support of the integrated police, pursuant to a government decision formalized by the Memorandum of Understanding of 13 March 2015 on Defence support for the integrated police, and explained by instructions from the Commissioner General of the Federal Police. The documents have been endorsed by the respective legal services and the instructions are therefore in total compliance with the applicable legal rules. The military does not conduct body searches because there is no legal basis for doing so. However, as part of the assigned mission to control access to certain public places and in order to increase security for the population, the military is seeking the cooperation of the population to carry out visual checks. Every citizen has the right to refuse such checks until they are searched by police personnel or if he or she renounces access to the place concerned. The use of tracking dogs is also done at the request of the police. The protocol and instructions do not provide for an obligation to wear a muzzle. The use of dogs is not prohibited. Then I come to the questions relating to Molenbeek. The military are replaced by the various support police forces, who decide on the basis of the instruction of the OCAD and a risk analysis where military forces are placed in place. It must be clear, however, that military forces are never used for law enforcement but merely for the protection of the population, i.e. within the mandate given to them, in the context of the increased threat of terrorism. So they do not intervene in riots among others. The high stake in the number of soldiers indeed has an impact on the planned training activities. I've never denied that either. However, there is no loss of necessary training and/or commitment to exercises or to the deployment abroad, so that they can be done in a safe way. That's a specific assignment that the defense staff received from me. In spite of interviews on Friday night of generals of any component, I assume that the general staff will succeed in meeting these two requirements effectively at the same time. That's allowed in the report. Thanks to extensive training, the contingent of available staff has now been expanded to include other support staff. However, further expansion of this potential is difficult, as we have to meet a number of minimum requirements for deployment on national territory and also require the necessary prior knowledge and training. Because of the high level of commitment of our people, Defense is indeed colliding with material limits, but no personnel are being deployed who do not have bulletproof vests, adequate means of communication with the police and the necessary first aid equipment. In other words, their personal equipment must be in order. We have taken action to order certain equipment, but some resources are subject to longer delivery periods. For your information, you should ask for a price offer yourself for the delivery of bulletproof vests within two weeks. I wish you every success! To ensure the protection of staff, we effectively borrow bulletproof vests from the United States. It is true that there are not enough own resources and equipment available to provide all soldiers with individual equipment at the same time. Consequently, the material is indeed used in the framework of pooling and sharing. This creates the necessary challenges in terms of organisation and speed of reaction in the event of incidents. That too is a broad conscience. By pooling the equipment, we manage to equip all the staff deployed on the street. It is clear that the pressure on staff is high because of the workload and social consequences, but our soldiers operate in support of the population in very high security conditions. Since the beginning of the operation, contacts with the trade unions have taken place. I myself, like the Defence Staff, have spoken with the unions on several occasions in relation to the deployment. Mr Yüksel, I come to your last question about anonymity. We are a free and democratic country and we cannot therefore ban anyone from filming in public space. That's almost impossible. There are two things on the other hand, firstly, that the military individually has the right to be unrecognizable. As a result, some people are effectively face-covered on the street, something that is not equally appreciated by everyone in the government. It will not be unknown to you that there are people in your own party who have questions. I have replied that the military has an effective individual right to make themselves unrecognizable. Secondly, of course, we ask the media to cooperate in making it unrecognizable, which works fairly well with the regular media. The big problem, of course, lies with the foreign media who are interested but also with the people who think it is necessary to show more through the social media and so on than is absolutely necessary or contributes to the news value of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as training and equipment are concerned, I am glad that they are being followed up. The delivery and equipment will be looked at as closely as possible, according to what is actually rented. All the better, at least the military is well protected. I do have a thought about the explanation you gave. I didn't ask the question myself, but I do have a thought. With regard to voluntary search, the answer is that a citizen may refuse. I've got it all figured out. What is the public view of a military citizen? In terms of power, I'm going to express it now. How would a citizen dare refuse to accept a military? You'd better ask yourself that. How would a citizen dare refuse to be searched in front of an armed military in full equipment? That's a thought you need to make about this method. I am also pleased that you explained the situation in Molenbeek on 2 April. It was my fear that the military would have acted in order to enforce the law there. That was not the case. We experienced it differently a long time ago, and that did not end well. I hope we never see anything like this again. Finally, you referred to the remarks made by the General of the Army. If we are to continue to employ a great many soldiers in the streets in our own country, we will have to make choices in the long term: we must continue to focus on the use of military personnel in our own country and limit our foreign operations in order to provide for all possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u57	With regard to the search of baggage of any passers-by, I am not aware of any information about persons who were unhappy for that reason. It's like when one goes to a football match. I don't know how that goes in Harelbeke, but when I go to a game in Genk or Saint-Truiden, I'm already asked to leave bags at home, which isn't always obvious. Then my wife or I will be asked to see what we have with us. That happens there, too. If you don't want that, you have to go back to the car. Those are the choices we have to make, especially after 22 March. We provide support and do whatever is necessary. Either people voluntarily cooperate, or they feel offended and do not cooperate. The fact is that there are no person fouillerings happening. There is a difference with asking what one has with oneself, as is happening in department stores. The military do not stand there with the weapon in the attack, while they ask people to spread their legs. You want me to conclude that we now have to make choices between what we do for the interior, especially vigilant guard homeland, or what we do abroad. The opposite is true. I've instructed the staff to find out how defence can organize itself to do the two sustainably and, if necessary, if necessary. I am still waiting for an answer, however.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u58	Mr President, may I reply? [[Permission granted.]] Mr Minister, I will reply first to the last point. I am pleased with the answer you have just given, namely that you have instructed the Staff. After all, when I have a thought, you have also made that thought. You were right to give the order to the Staff. On the first point, there is a greater debate. It has also already been conducted in the Committee on Home Affairs in the framework of the assignments of private security firms. However, if there are problems with who can carry out what, there must be a legal basis for it and more structured. We cannot continue to work on a voluntary basis in our society in this way. There is a difference of levels or a difference between the military in equipment that has some form of power development and the citizen. You refer to the football, which you have set as a concrete example. That won't be the case in Harelbeke. The local club plays unfortunately and for the sake of clarity no longer at Genk level. Maybe I should refer to the cycling race, which goes on in the same place. We didn't fouille back then. Following the events of 22 March 2016, we have simply banned handbags and backpacks. I would just like to point out how important it is to ensure that this happens correctly to the citizens, so that it cannot be referred to as exercise of power or abuse of power. For the sake of clarity, it is right that everything should be at the heart of our security. We must, however, be on a legal basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. As has been pointed out, we have clearly supported this temporary mission. Having said that, I do not share your optimism. If this mission continues in time, we cannot escape legal clarification or budgetary clarification. Additional budgetary resources will have to be made available, otherwise we will be confined to amateurism. I would like to conclude my speech with a pointade. I'm glad I took part in the Defence Committee this morning. In the light of your discussions with Mr. Yüksel, an electoral cartel N-VA-CD&V no longer seems to be on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u60	Mr Minister, unlike Mr Pirlot, we have always been critical of this policy of sending military personnel to the streets. The security of public space is a mission entrusted to the police. And it is only because the police force is insufficient, that this government and those who preceded it have disinvested in the sovereign functions of the State that today the army must replace the shortage of police officers. If I have asked you, minister, it is with the aim of avoiding a serious incident and because I would like the legal framework to be reminded at least to the military, even if it is not perfect. According to a press article published on 6 April on the site of La Dernière Heure, a patrolling soldier in a subway station said that he could search all the bags he wanted, these statements were confirmed by two other soldiers also on patrol. In my view, the legal framework, the memorandum of understanding, the letter from the Commissioner-General must be recalled. You will have to ensure that the memorandum of understanding that will be amended shortly provides for the wearing of a muzzle by dogs. There shouldn't be an accident. Finally, I hope that our soldiers will be able to quickly return to their neighbourhoods and get out of our streets because that will mean that the threat will be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u61	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The MR supports the military presence on our streets, it's not a scoop! I understand the subtleties of your answer about the legal basis of the excavations. I believe, as my colleagues have just said, that it would be safer legally and more reasonable, in order to avoid problems in the future, to have a clear legal basis for such searches. We may have problems at some point. It will then be too late to react. Personally, I would rather encourage you to provide a legal basis. I believe that the majority will be able to support this measure and thus allow clear and legal searches by the military without the presence of police officers. That would be more reasonable, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u62	Madam President, I am counting on this to be translated properly. It's important that I say this right. I take note of what is being asked. It is then assumed that there will be a permanent commitment by the Defense Department to the support of the police. That's not my option today. For everything that Defense is doing today, there is a clear legal basis, checked at the top. However, we must not forget that after 22 March we were at safety level 4 and today we are still at safety level 3. That's not a normal situation. This is an extraordinary situation that requires extraordinary measures. If we lived in a normal level of security, that would be something else but we're at level 3. That is why it makes sense to see today military personnel in the streets of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u63	Minister, I would like to make three comments. First of all, I think the equipment is important to the military. Secondly, on the legal framework, you say in your reply that you do not provide for the permanent deployment of soldiers in the street. I believe that this is an important element. However, as my colleague from MR said, if that were to be considered, it must of course be clarified and clarified. If we were to wait until one day there was a problem, it might be too late. We must do that for the citizens, but also for the military in question, so that they do not get into trouble. Thirdly, you have not answered my question about the budget. There is a discussion on how much of the EUR 400 million envisaged for the defence sector is available. I think most Cabinets have a view on that, and I'm assuming you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u64	Mr Yüksel, I can reply briefly. It will not have escaped your notice that there is a commission specifically against the threat of terror. A number of initiatives have been taken jointly by the various security services. For the Defense Department, it's ADIV, working with state security, and so on. Several investments are planned, which are in principle still to be made this year, and it is mainly about acquiring intelligence and the like. In addition, Defense will still be reimbursed within the framework of the additional security orders we carry out. This is, of course, the subject of a claim for that commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u65	Minister, I would like to make one final point, for the opposition's colleagues, in order to reassure you. We are absolutely supportive and will remain so. The cartel has absolutely nothing to do with it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u66	Mr Pirlot, you have one more question on the agenda, so you can still joke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u67	Madam President, Minister, this government has made the choice to harmonize the pension plans of public servants, employees and self-employed with regard to the graduation bonus in the calculation of the pension. This harmonisation will be done downwards. Rather than raising the pension of contract workers too low, it was decided to reduce the amount of the public service pension. If they want their years of education to be taken into account in the calculation of their retirement pension, they will have to pay a regulatory contribution. Otherwise, the amount of their pension will be reduced. Of course, in spite of a specific regime, the military are State officials, so this government decision will undoubtedly have an impact on their pensions. Minister, can you confirm to me that you will remove the automatic inclusion of years of education in the calculation of the pension amount of members, and thus reduce their pension? Has this measure been the subject of consultation with the military unions? What will be the impact of this specific measure on public servants' pensions, and more broadly that of the government's overall pension policy, on military pensions? What are the estimated budgetary implications for your department? Are further measures for the military forthcoming? Finally, in its 2014 report, the Court of Auditors points out that, since 2007, a number of important reforms have changed the parameters for the calculation of military pensions and the procedures for registering careers. The Court of Auditors finds that the financial impact of the reform of military pensions has not been assessed, a priori or a posteriori. Do you intend to conduct such an evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u68	Madam Chair, Mr. Pirlot, the graduation bonus system that was applicable to all officers was removed on January 1, 2009. From that date, the system of taking into account years of application studies for civil servants is also applicable to military personnel. This higher education diploma bonus is granted only for pre-graduate years of study as for military lawyers, paramedics and other military specialists. This means that most officers from the Royal Military School do not receive this bonus because they complete their graduate studies at the Royal Military School after they are recruited. In general terms, in the area of military pensions, it is clear that the evolution will be dictated by the decisions taken by the government following the conclusions of the so-called Pension Board, more specifically for those functions which receive recognition of penitibility. The question that remains open is whether the Commission's conclusions should be anticipated by proactively increasing the pension age. Such a measure would, of course, have a financial impact on Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u69	Minister, are you considering an evaluation as reported by the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u70	These are parallel questions. I have asked to look at the different possibilities and the consequences of the scenarios that the Pensions Commission might propose. Today, military pensions depart from the general system. The government is considering aligning the various pension systems in the future. Of course, this will be done in consultation with the social partners. In terms of evaluation, the most important is what the Pension Board will produce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic388x.u71	Minister, thank you.
