ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, we have heard with sadness the death of our former colleague Louis Van Geyt, on Thursday 14 April 2016. Louis Van Geyt was born on 24 September 1927 in Antwerp in a liberal, liberal, Flemish family. His father was a magistrate there and later became a Dutch-speaking professor of civil law at the ULB. Louis Van Geyt attended the primary school in Antwerp for four years, then continued his school career in Brussels in French at the Section d'Athenée A de la Ville. He then studied at the ULB, which had opened its doors again in January 1945. He's graduating in economics and financials. As a perfect bilingual student, he put his shoulders under the re-establishment of the student association No Language, No Freedom, who advocated the division of the ULB into a fully-fledged bilingual university. He then campaigned among the Socialist Students and then joined the Belgian Communist Party. At the Liberation, the Belgian Communist Party can count on the support of some 100,000 members. Combating Paul-Henri Spaak's politics and more generally the overthrow of alliances by US President Truman, these were the key elements of his political commitment. From 1949 to 1952, Louis Van Geyt served in the national office of the Belgian People's Youth, where he was responsible for the organization of progressive students. In 1951 he joined the Communist Party administration. He initially worked at the documentation service and subsequently became editor of the party newspaper Le Drapeau rouge. In 1960 he was admitted to the political office of the Communist Party and soon became the main leader of the Brussels Federation. From 1965 to 1970 he was on the city council of Brussels. In 1971 he became a member of the National Secretariat and after the death of President Marc Drumaux he was elected president of the Communist Party on 9 December 1972. He entered our assembly on January 28, 1971. He will sit in the House until 6 October 1981. It is with courage, determination but always with simplicity that he takes part in the great debates that stir up our assembly during the 1970s. He was faithful to his values and was quickly noticed by his knowledge of the issues and his well-documented interventions on the consequences of oil shocks, the arms race and diplomatic relations with Chile after General Pinochet's coup d'état. He was also a very active member of AWEPA. In the international communist movement, during the debates on Eurocommunism, he called for critical solidarity, i.e. a critical attitude towards Moscow while maintaining lasting strategic solidarity with the Soviet bloc. In the 1980s, he worked for peace and the installation of nuclear missiles in Europe. In 1989 the KPB-PCB was split according to the language communities, but Louis Van Geyt remained President of the Union of Communists of Belgium until 1995, which dominated the two parties. In order to protect the party's historical heritage, he founded a non-profit association, of which he would remain chairman until 2012. Our former colleague was a true gentleman, a charming and courteous man who has always believed in the values of freedom, dignity and justice that his party embodied in his eyes. I have greeted the family of our former colleague, our late colleague, in the gallery, on behalf of our assembly, my condolences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u3	Mr President, the government too would like to pay tribute to Louis Van Geyt. He was a remarkable politician who spent nearly ten years in our assembly. Louis Van Geyt is a teenager when World War II breaks out and sets Europe on fire. The war determines his political commitment. He studies economics and financial sciences at the ULB. Van Geyt is perfectly bilingual and advocates splitting the lessons according to the language. He then joined the Communist Party. Van Geyt is ambitious and has become party chairman. Elected to the House of Representatives in 1971, he became one of the strong voices of the opposition at the time. A fervent defender of his convictions, he was appreciated for the quality of his interventions. Ten years later, he left the House, but remained very active politically. A great pacifist, he continued to advocate the disarmament of Europe, then in the midst of the cold war. Louis Van Geyt has a reputation as a protester. He participates in hundreds of demonstrations, even after his political career. His belief remains intact and authentic until very old age. In the name of the federal government, I would like to extend my deepest condolences to his family and his neighbors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you observe a minute of silence in memory of our former colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the oral questions are on the agenda. However, Mr Bonte wishes to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u6	Mr President, I have asked to speak because I have addressed a question concerning the lack of follow-up of Syrian fighters to the Prime Minister. I insisted that the Prime Minister himself should provide the answer, not only because he is Prime Minister, but also because he is President of the National Security Council. The ambition is for something to happen quickly. I now note that my question will be answered by the Minister for Security and Home Affairs. I would like to insist once again that the Prime Minister responds. Is the Prime Minister apologized or what exactly is going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u7	Mr Bonte, it would be awesome to play hide-and-seek and I can tell you that, on the one hand, there is effective talk about who should answer that question. In fact, I have to admit that there is some logic in the argument that the Prime Minister is the chairman of the National Security Council. On the other hand, there is no disagreement in the government on the issue, at least as far as we know whether we are informed. The Deputy Prime Minister and also the Minister responsible will therefore answer your question. I'm assuming it's actually you to do that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u8	Mr President, I always assume that the government is one and indivisible. We've already seen samples of this indivisibleity. But on the basis of what article, or on what basis, in the context of parliamentary control, are you referring to a negation that is taking place in the government? If a Member insists that the Prime Minister should reply, I think there is only one reason why that should not happen, namely because he is prevented by international agreements or other matters. So I maintain my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u9	I have tried to organise the work as well as possible. There are other ministers in the National Security Council, and so they are involved. I have already admitted that there is some logic. Following an exchange of views, we have come to the conclusion that...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u11	No, Mrs. Temmerman. There are many issues on which people, including the media, learn that there are indeed tensions or indications of possible differences of opinion in the government. That does not seem to me to be the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u12	Mr President, if there have been any negations and considerations, I would like to insist that at least the relevant Member of Parliament, of which you are the President, should be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u13	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u14	If I'm right, I'll ask the Prime Minister to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u15	You are right and I apologise for that, but the decision has been taken quite late today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u16	Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, at the time of the state of the union said he had only one obsession: "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" In the name of this obsession, you didn't hesitate to hurt. You have attacked purchasing power, there have been increases in VAT, excise duties, index jumps, wage moderation; you have attacked older workers, pensioners, the unemployed, social beneficiaries, even women. Only the most affluent have been spared. Today, masks fall. Two days ago, Eurostat reported its figures on the employment rate in Europe and, for our country, they are far from being positive. After all these unfair measures, we are the only country with Finland to see our employment rate decline. Our employment rate is falling and we are moving away from our European target. What is tragic is that, for your government, this is not enough. You still want to go further. In your opinion, if this goes wrong, it is not because of your policy, it is the fault of the workers: they are not flexible enough, they do not work enough! Your solution: reform to destroy workers' rights, to make better use of them, to increase the profitability of companies. And, to achieve this, weaken their representatives, with today's social dialogue at a standstill. In view of this, will you review your approach, return to solutions imagined with the social partners and not dictated by the employers and your partner N-VA? Are you going to make contribution reductions and other measures conditional on job creation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u17	Minister of Work, I can still hear the Prime Minister say: the commitment of this government is jobs, jobs, jobs. That would be done. The workers of our country have had to take an index jump, wages have stopped and the living costs of families have been greatly increased by all kinds of excise duties and additional invoices to realize the tax shift and create jobs. It was said that this would generate 50 000 to 80 000 jobs. The employers' organisations also predicted this at the time. Last week, however, UNIZO's big boss returned to his appointments. He said that there will be no extra jobs because we are faced with cost increases, as inflation has to pay more wages. So he really doesn't think it's gonna work. Like Finland, Belgium has a very low level of effectiveness where it is not doing well. Belgium is the only country where the rate of effectiveness has decreased from 20 to 64 years of age in 2015. That means that there aren't a lot of people working here in proportion. Belgium scores the second worst result in the European Union with an employment rate of 67.2%. Only Bulgaria, Romania, Spain, Croatia, Italy and Greece score worse. Minister Peeters, how can you explain this? Do you not think that it is time for a different policy, a progressive policy, a tax shift with a serious contribution of the great capabilities? And why? To invest in purchasing power, but also to invest in the challenges of the future. I am thinking of everything related to energy and everything related to the ageing of the population. Jobs have to be created for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u18	Mrs De Coninck, Mr Daerden, you are right: our government's top priority is to create jobs. That will remain the case; until the last day of this legislature, we will do everything we can to create jobs. You refer to Eurostat. The Eurostat report has, of course, also been read. I have noted with you that we have fallen by 0.1% and have remained at 67 percent, which is still below the ambition that we have and which the previous government and many governments had before. We must move forward. I hope that we will create these jobs, but taking advantage of this study to say that we are not going in the right direction is totally wrong. Firstly, if you look at the facts, for example the figures of the RSZ, it is clear that jobs were created between the end of 2014 and the end of 2015, namely 30 700. That information comes from our own RSZ. Secondly, you must have the necessary intellectual honesty and admit that the population in our country has increased faster than in our neighbouring countries. There was an increase of almost 3% between 2000 and 2010. In the Netherlands, this figure was 1.1 %. In Denmark there was even a decrease of 1%. If you use this study again to defend your views, you should also take that into account. It is obvious that we want to create jobs. That is why this government has taken a number of important decisions to implement them. We have continued the wage moderation of the previous government with an index jump. We have reduced labour costs for employers. We have recently taken additional decisions on workable work. In short, these are all proposals that will ensure that we are convinced that jobs are being created among small businesses. The employer's contribution to initial recruitment will be reduced to zero. The same Karel Van Eetvelt, whom you quote, Mrs De Coninck, said a few days later that 10 000 jobs had already been created by the self-employed. First of all, let us take the study seriously. Moreover, I am convinced that the measures we have taken will create jobs. At the end of this legislature, we will be able to see that our policy was and is the right policy to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u19	Deputy Prime Minister, I have heard your answer. But at "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" of the Prime Minister, my group leader replied: "Taxes! Taxes! Taxes!" The fact is that taxes are there, and that jobs do not happen. You don't bring a solution, you just say, "It's not our fault, it's demographics." It's a little short, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. To increase the employment rate, it is necessary to reduce working time and increase domestic consumption. Believe us!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u20	Minister, it is very important that everyone contributes and provides resources to invest in our country. After all, there are many challenges for the future. That way we can create work. It is therefore important that people with great abilities should not go to Panama with their pennies, but should do their part here. They will also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u21	Mr President, Minister, today is International Day of Safety at Work and Sunday is 1 May, Labor Day. With this work and health at work, things are bad in this country. Two out of three workers suffer from stress and 2015 was almost a top year of long-term absenteeism. So we clearly have a structural problem. This not only causes a great deal of suffering, but also costs us a handful of money: 1.8 billion in health care and 8 000 euros per employee who fails to burn out. You will agree with me that these budgets can be better spent. It is time for prevention and structural measures. It's better to avoid it than to heal it. Minister, a year ago we put on the table a number of proposals to keep the career more viable and healthy. Today, we are doing this again and making the commitment of 1 May. We wonder what the government will do very concretely to reduce these high costs. In the meantime, the career has been made more flexible, people have to work longer, but you have not yet taken measures to ensure that this is effectively feasible. You have often spoken about workable work, but you have not yet taken any action. Today, therefore, we are presenting two very concrete proposals. A first proposal has to do with the fact that not everyone can work for the same length of time. Working longer is not feasible for everyone. One-size-fits-all, one system in which all employees have to fit, is simply not of this time. This is not feasible, it needs customisation. Our proposal is to work with a point system, with heavier professions weighing more heavily and the people who perform such a job building pension rights faster. It is better to avoid people falling out so quickly because they are in a heavy occupation. That is why our second proposal is to allow those companies which are already engaged in workable work to reduce labour costs. What will your government do to reduce these costs and to effectively work on workable work? Your cabinet has already asked and received our proposals. What do you think of these two ideas, the career point system and the wage cost reduction for companies that are already taking action?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the subject I want to address is not the same. In fact, I would like to ask you today more about the decision taken on the occasion of the budgetary adjustment and, in particular, about the reaction of the Group of Ten. This subject is topical, since the latter is in some way unanimously opposed to you. Of course, they do not agree on the substance, in particular, of the obligation to annalise working time. However, there was unanimity as the discussions were blocked. Trade unions and employers have provided you with a wide range of comments. The least we can say is that the way in which the government has decided to move forward is neither more nor less than a provocation towards the social partners. Indeed, you have unilaterally decided to make a completely unbalanced selective sorting within the government, even though it would have been logical to organise a discussion with all the social partners in advance. Minister, how do you intend to proceed? You received these letters. Can you give us information about their content? What is your reaction? Will you leave your hand to the social partners? Will you put oil in the wheels to allow each other to move forward? If I'm not mistaken, they asked to meet you. In my view, it is important to be able to clarify how we will move forward on this major issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u23	Mr President, these are two slightly different questions. I shall therefore begin by addressing Mrs Willaert's question. It is an important challenge to adapt labour law and the labour market to the 21st century and to an increasingly digitised economy that has been globalised even more than ever before and in which people have to work daily. We are faced with many challenges, some of which you have already mentioned, such as stress and burn-out. It is with this observation that the current government has taken the initiative to tackle workable and manoeuvrable work. We held two round tables and we have a lot of ideas. In budgetary control, a first important step has been taken to achieve not only manoeuvrable work, but also workable work, on which you stress. It is true that these are two aspects of labour market reform and labour law. However, we must never forget that it must also be a question of keeping the work workable for both young and older people, who have to work longer, given the pension problems that the current government is also trying to tackle. We have put forward a very progressive and innovative approach in this area with a pedestal and a menu, in which all kinds of things stand for workable and agile work. I very much appreciate your proposals. I have already indicated in this hemisphere, following another question from you, that I expect not only proposals from the social partners and from the majority, but also proposals from the opposition. So I really appreciate you making proposals. We have just contacted your party to ask for the proposals. We also received them, for which we are very grateful. I have promised that we will look at them seriously. You've made several proposals. In particular, however, I would like to abstain from the two proposals on the trampoline premium and on the career points system. In order to limit myself to the first proposal, I would like to say that we must continue to think about how we can implement termination periods in a different way. Rather, it should be about transition fees, to ensure that someone looking for another job is supported by a transition fee and not a cancellation fee. We shall therefore take these proposals seriously and look at them further because the work must not only be workable but also affordable in practice. I'll ask my people to look into the case and I'll come back to it later. Mrs Fonck, I received two letters, one from the trade unions and the other from the FEB (Unizo and UCM), to which I replied with a view to holding a meeting with each of these bodies. That's normal. This is a social consultation not with the Group of Ten but with these two partners, who requested that two separate meetings be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u24	Minister, you are once again very charmingly answering my questions. By the way, you always respond very charmingly to my questions. I appreciate that constructive attitude, but so far you have done very little with our proposals. More importantly, after a year, people still feel nothing in practice. It is precisely for the sake of your fine words and your constructive attitude that I will continue to come back to this. I will continue to ask questions until you finally take action. I will repeat workable work in this House a hundred times, until you take steps forward. We will continue to make proposals, give you inspiration, until progress is finally made. It can be healthier, it can be more human, it can be more workable. Minister, read my lips: workable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u25	Minister, I do not know if your answer is charming. We'll see if your actions are. I have no doubt about you; they will certainly be. It's a great solidarity! Minister, labour modernization and adaptation in the 21st century is an important issue. It's obvious. It should be noted, however, that after the roundtables, the government made the decision to give birth to a mouse. In relation to the government's decisions, your work boils down to 45 hours per week and a subsequent reference to the issue of time credit. Minister, I have two requests for you. First of all, this government has, on several occasions, had a bad habit of taking over when it was fluctuating within the social partners. Above all, Minister, leave the hands of the social partners! Do not decide unilaterally at the government level! Then, Minister, you have every interest in reopening your construction site because you have reduced it to the size of a tiny mouse. As a result, I can understand that both the unions and the employers are not acceptable. Minister, reopen this building for the benefit of all! This will make it possible to make real progress in modernising employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u26	We now come to the two joined-up questions on social security benefits for inmates. We shall begin with Mr Dewinter's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u28	I know. This is the last question for the Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it depends on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u29	Mr President, since I am considered charming... (Hilarity)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u30	Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u31	Mr President, I would like to begin by making the points. This question was addressed to the Prime Minister. We have already talked about this. I continue to be surprised that you are preventing a Member of Parliament from questioning the Prime Minister. It is about security and the Prime Minister is the President of the National Security Council. This does not prevent, Mr Vice-President, that you may also be able to provide answers to a number of specific questions. It is a matter that we have been debating here for years. I have even debated it with your predecessor: there is a structural deficit in the succession of Syrian fighters, especially in the Capital Region. That's not new. I have mentioned it several times in the Channel Plan here, in committee and outside. The painful thing is that we and the government are now dealing with a preliminary report, which we have been able to read after a number of journalists had taken note of. It is a particularly painful matter, in the sense that there was apparently too much information about the Abdeslam and Abaaoud brothers, but it was apparently stored somewhere and was never looked at to the ground, not before the attacks in Paris, not after the attacks in Paris and not before the attacks in Maalbeek and Zaventem. The information was only exploited when the P Committee acted. At the request of the advisory committee of the P Committee, you were also able to take note of the report. There is one question I did not wish to ask you, because you do not know the answer, namely: what if? What if that information had been exploited? What if that information had been taken seriously? It is a question which affects many, but I fear that we do not know the answer to it today. Today we live under threat level 3. The OCAD makes a call for alertness among the people. The only question I have left, Minister, is what conclusions the government draws from the report. What guarantees do you have that those who are still looking for will not be followed as sloppyly as the persons in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u32	Mr Bonte, I am somewhat surprised that you are asking that question in plenary today. During the course of this week there was a meeting of the guidance committee. An interim report of the P Committee was taken into account. It was decided unanimously that we would ask for the reply from the competent police and justice services after the report. I will therefore not take a stand. That is also in line with Minister Geens. We will not take a position until we have heard the reply from the services and there is a final report from the P Committee. That decision was taken unanimously in the advisory committee. I wish to respect that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u33	Minister, through the press, the people take note of secret reports that illustrate what I have been saying for years, in particular that there is a structural failure in the succession of Syrian fighters. A lot of police zones and police work hard today. Image campaigns are being set up to make Brussels a little sexy again, for which I have every sympathy. However, it remains awaiting the fundamental work: to put order on the succession of Syrian fighters. You are now saying that you will look at it later. I am very disappointed by your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u34	Minister, you said a few weeks ago that we all live above our standards. Since yesterday, we know who really lives above his standards, namely the convicted terrorists in prisons. Apparently, they have been receiving unemployment benefits for a long time. We live here in Absurdistan and every day I am surprised by the fact that we hear such facts in superb steps. How on earth is it possible that, at this very moment, public opinion is being informed about the fact that convicted terrorists can actually receive unemployment compensation in prison? Our government is apparently not able to detect that because of all kinds of practical circumstances. We are also told that the convicted terrorists themselves should have informed the RVA. It could be a joke at Geert Hoste's New Year's conference. One could laugh very much about it, even if no one would believe it, but it is the reality. Minister, how much money is it really about? How many inmates are we talking about? How long has this practice been going on? How will you avoid that in the future? Finally, I would like to say that it would perhaps be a good thing if you, as a politically responsible government, were to apologize, because such a fact puts a lot of bad blood on the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u35	Minister, I would like to begin with a kind word and thank you for your patience so that we can meet here in plenary. Just as seriously, Minister, I think that the whole of Belgium fell from its seat when it was heard that unemployment benefits are being paid to prisoners who are sentenced to a custodial sentence. That's an old very. We have known this for a long time. However, we have to note that public services are still not sufficiently communicating with each other today. The legislation is fine, but implementation in practice is lagging behind. That is why I turn to you, Minister. What will you do? I read that you will deal with the problem. I hope that can be done quickly and immediately. I think this has gone on long enough. What will you do to really tackle the unjustified payment of unemployment benefits, which the law prohibits? Our budget is heavily burdened by social security expenditure. These expenses are usually justified for people who are unhappy and in good faith, but this is about it, Minister. We ask you to take a firm approach to the problem. My question goes a little further, Minister. It's not just about unemployment benefits. Other social benefits, such as disability benefits to civil servants and pensions, are also paid on to persons sentenced to custodial sentences, even if the public authorities bear the daily costs and the health care of those persons. I think we should put a stop to this. We have taken a legislative initiative to actually suspend all these replacement income for the duration of the custodial sentence. Will you support that proposal, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both Justice and the RVA have been dealing with the problem for some time now. That solution is that the Crossroads Bank of Social Security automatically receives that information from the Justice Department and also automatically transmits it to the RVA. As a result, no one in prison can still receive unemployment benefits. The law is clear. Those in prison are not available for the labour market and cannot receive unemployment benefits. Structurally, that will be solved by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. This is already under way and we have once again called for urgency. We are told that this possibility will be realised in the first trimester of 2017. You could argue that this is still a long time ago, and that we should take action now to ensure that no prisoner in any prison in Belgium receives a benefit. You're right. That is why we have taken a number of additional actions and will continue to do so. First of all, after the Attorney General's permission, the RVA gets a list of terrorist suspects. On the basis of that list, a check shall be made on who receives unemployment benefit and is or has been in prison. Benefits received wrongly are recovered and the payment of unemployment benefits is stopped. Secondly, with the further development of the SIDIS database, Justice has been working on technical data exchange since the beginning of this year. Pending the structural solution, the RVA will very quickly be given a list of the judges to determine for themselves who is in prison and whether they are receiving unemployment benefits. Thirdly, we will send additional RVA inspectors to prisons to obtain targeted information on the overall stock of detainees to ensure that no prisoner receives unemployment benefits. A fourth point that I would like to mention and which you did not ask for is the following. Persons with an anklet not allowed to leave the house are not available for the labour market and are therefore not entitled to unemployment benefit. The necessary initiatives will be taken to ensure that anyone who has an anklet and cannot leave the house will no longer receive unemployment benefit. Colleagues, with the structural solution, which must be put in place as soon as possible and for which initiatives have already been taken, and with the additional measures we will absolutely ensure that such practices do not happen again. In the future, the scheme will be waterproof. Mr Van Cauter, as far as the other elements are concerned, that is a discussion that we must have in the government. I would like to consult the competent colleagues before I make any comments on this matter. However, I would like to make it quite clear that unemployment benefits for prisoners cannot be legally paid. That's not possible either. In practical terms, we have now worked out the right instruments for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u37	Mr President, this is a policy of flaming fire, as is so often the case in this country. It took an article in the media to bring the facts to light before the government worked on it. That's what makes me and perhaps a lot of countrymen so angry. Apparently, in this digital age, with all possible information banks, with 900 000 officials, there is no way in this country to ensure that prisoners, convicted terrorists, no longer have unemployment benefits. That requires a leak in the media first. That characterizes our country, that characterizes our administration, that characterizes politics in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u38	Mr Dewinter, I must say that the problem was not raised by the leak in the media, but by Members of Parliament who were attentive, even in 2012. I thank the government because it is now making effective efforts to make it impossible to pay unemployment benefits unduly. Minister, I hope you are consistent. If you say that replacement income should be suspended because it is no longer available to the labour market, then I hope that you will support us in our request to suspend, among other things, replacement income for disability or pensions during the stay in prison. Hopefully, your answer will not open the umbrella, but you will go for the protection of our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u39	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to clarify that as a federal Member of Parliament, I believe that the government is currently doing what it can to ensure the safety of our citizens in the difficult circumstances in which we live. There must be no ambiguity about this. At the same time, I think it is a good thing that the Chief Constable of Ronse has expressed some concerns, which he has also put in the press today, about the fact that the local police are really moaning among the claims for federal deployment at the moment. Minister, we must remain honest in saying that you did not create this problem. It's grown over the years. It has to do with years, perhaps too little investment in the federal police, which now puts us in a problematic situation. As mayor of Maasmechelen and chairman of our local police area, I must say that we have slept the same cry for help. We have also sent a letter on this matter to the federal police at provincial level. Maasmechelen is a municipality, in my opinion, there are many similar municipalities at the border, which have to do with drug problems, motor gangs and a motorway crossing the municipality. We can no longer guarantee HyCap's commitment and solidarity. Mr Minister, we are dealing with this situation and I would therefore like to ask you the following specific and positive questions. How can the balance be restored? Our police system is an integrated system, where the local police are supposed to guarantee the basic functions and the federal police are supposed to make the specialized effort, like with Terro. However, if so much effort is required from the local police to catch up at the federal level, that may cause problems. How can we ensure that the police model is brought back into balance in the short term, so that local police zones can restore their basic functionality? The local police force are really on their gums, that's a given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u40	As Mr Terwingen said, the security services are on their gums. That much is clear. These are difficult times, with many extraordinary assignments that require many from both local and federal police. Special times, of course, require special efforts. There's that awareness, too, just to be clear. There is a lot of commitment and flexibility on the ground. Our police people give the best of themselves every day to respond to the refugee crisis, the temporary border controls, the terrorist threat and all kinds of other challenges that come to them as well as possible. However, every human being and every organization has its limits. Those bodies reached today. Not only Maasmechelen and Ronse, but also all police areas in my province, East Flanders, sound a cry for help. Last month, for example, the CIC East Flanders had to close some emergency power stations due to staff shortages. That is not possible, it is a threat to the security of citizens. Minister, nobody is questioning the solidarity mechanism in the police force, but we must be able to offer solutions and, if possible, relieve the police of certain tasks. One way is to recruit extra agents. That will be necessary, with the additional retirement prospects in mind. New blood will have to be recruited. That alone, however, is not blissful. Choices will have to be made, priorities will have to be set. It's been dealt with here a few times. What are the core tasks of the police? What tasks can we better outsource, so that the police are partly relieved? Mr Minister, my questions are simple. Where are we on the additional recruitments? What progress has been made on plans for the police's core tasks and the outsourcing to third parties of other tasks? In other words, what will you do to create more breathing space for our police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me say that I fully understand the aspirations of the local police. We live in a rather exceptional time frame and at the same time have three crises to manage, the focus of which lies with the police, both local and federal police. These are the terra crisis, the refugee crisis and the transmigration crisis caused by the dismantling of the camps in Calais and Dunkirk. Those are the circumstances and there is a lot of demand from our policemen, from both local and federal police. I would like to take this opportunity once again, for the umpteenth time, to thank all those people very much for that. Of course, that is not going to happen. Mrs Gabriels, in the Committee on the Interior, we have already given a detailed explanation of the key tasks debate and its political conclusion. Through these measures, we release a capacity of 2 500 people, 450 of whom are local police, about 500 of whom are federal police, and the rest in that special corps we set up. That's one thing. Secondly, within the framework of the interdepartmental commission of 400 million, we have decided to increase the capacity of the federal police by 1,000 people and 200 in the airport police as a result of the negotiations. This year we recruit 1 600 policemen and the next two years we recruit 1 400 policemen. The first record of 400 police officers went into training this month. Now you know as well as I do that recruiting involves recruitment and then training. Unfortunately, we cannot admit that before these people go into the field, they need to be properly and properly trained, and that takes some time. There's another action in progress. Together with local police, we investigate how we can update the HyCap system and make it more tailored to the local areas. You must not forget that this is mutual. When zones, i.e. local police, ask for assistance from the federal police, so do they. There is the solidarity mechanism. I am aware that, in these exceptional circumstances, a great deal is required of the local police. Tomorrow, a working group will start working with the local police to see what we can do about it. I come to one final remark. In a police landscape with 189 mostly very small police areas, let's face it, we must also dare to make the exercise if we do not have to achieve larger wholes. I know that the coalition agreement states that we are only doing this on a voluntary basis. I do not want to abandon this, but I believe that we should dare to make this exercise, in order to reduce overhead by reducing the number of police areas. However, that cannot be an obligation for this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u42	Mr Minister, the merger of zones is indeed a good idea. The zone LAMA, Lanaken and Maasmechelen, is one of the last to be voluntarily merged. Your speech is clear in that regard. I note a number of initiatives, as well as people who will join us. I understand that time is needed for this, but at the moment the local police are really on their gums. I myself see, in the corps I am confronted with, that no holiday periods can be promised for the summer holidays. They just don't get there. That's still separate from the HyCap and the plans to raise it. I do not think that a percentage increase in the solidarity that is required of the local areas is really being discussed at the moment, at least until there is some diversification. I know that Mr van Ronse is also dealing with a very specific problem. Some areas have other problems. We must try to deal with this creatively. Where solidarity is possible in the local areas, it will be there, but there are other areas, which really do not have the possibility of additional solidarity at the moment. We must avoid mopping the taps open. We must ensure that we do not end up in a vicious circle. I share Mr Bonte's view in this respect. We are now deploying the local police for security against terrorism. I am convinced that local police have a very important role to play in the local integrated security cells, which all the municipalities are currently building. On this basis, radicalisation can be smothered in the bud. For that, the local police are very needed. I do not have to convince you of this, but you will find an ally in us to try, in a creative way, and as soon as possible, with the people and resources we have now, to strike a balance between the different local zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u43	Mr Minister, the situation is indeed exceptional and then it is normal for local police to show solidarity with the federal police. However, we must also bear in mind that the exceptional situation may no longer be so exceptional and that it may continue for a long time to come. We know the measures. Recruitments indeed take time, but, again, we look forward to the priorities and the core tasks. We have already discussed this dossier in committee. Our group hopes for progress in this area. As for HyCap, there used to be a lot of support from the federal police to the local police. Now, however, it works much more exclusively in the opposite direction. This is difficult to sustain, but I note that the government takes the distress call of the various zones seriously. It takes oxygen to give our security personnel more breathing space.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u44	Mr President, Minister, after more than ten years of negotiations, this government, unlike the previous governments, has managed to sign a cooperation agreement with Morocco. You have concluded this agreement with your fellow Members, Secretary of State Francken and Minister of Justice None. This is a very important step forward in the joint fight against terrorism, illegal migration and organised crime. Minister, although this is a major step, my question is very brief. What exactly does this agreement consist of? What is the important step forward on security? What exactly does this better cooperation consist of?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, last Friday, after more than ten years of negotiations, we were able to sign a MoU, a memorandum or understanding, with Morocco, which is part of the fight against illegal migration, security and the fight against terrorism. Together with the cooperation agreement that was approved in this Chamber last week, this indicates the good partnership we have built with the Moroccan Government. This partnership has also led us to work together on police matters to tackle the fight against terrorism and crime. Through this MoU we can appeal to Morocco when we find persons who are illegally resident on our territory and claim to be Moroccan nationality, in the sense that we can send their fingerprints to Morocco where they are searched in a digital database. At present, the Moroccan digital database already contains the fingerprints of 25 million out of 35 million inhabitants. This will enable us to know with certainty whether or not those concerned are Moroccan nationals. If so, they can be returned to Morocco. This is a very important agreement, not only in the fight against illegal migration and terrorism, but also in the area of enhancing security. I would like to express my thanks to Mr Reynders and Mr Geens, but especially to Mr Francken, who has worked hard on this cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for stressing the importance of the agreement. It took more than ten years for Morocco to cross the line. Belgium is the first country in Europe to be able to negotiate such an agreement with Morocco. Finally, there is an effective readmission agreement. This means that illegal Moroccans who are in our prisons can be sent back to Morocco and that Morocco actually takes them back. This is a very important step forward, especially in the fight against terrorism, as well as in the fight against illegal migration. Our motto is clear: we want to help those in need. People who are in need, we want to take care of them. For those who take advantage of our hospitality, what illegal criminals do all the more, there is no place in our country. I would therefore like to thank you and your fellow Members once again for this very good agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u47	Minister, this question is addressed to a minister other than the previous question, but it is in fact an indirect one, in the sense that the previous question indicated that good contacts with relevant countries can have an important impact on the domestic level. There was a breakthrough just now, after many years of negotiations with Morocco. Unfortunately, the name Turkey does appear a little more than we like when it comes to matters that we do not want to see happen. In the Netherlands there has been a whole discussion about the influence and intimidation that would take place from the Turkish embassy, perhaps instructed by the Turkish government. This debate is also being held with us, but this week we have had to learn the unpleasant news that 1 200 Belgians, or at least those legally resident in our country, would be blacklisted. Minister, I have spent more than ten years visiting Istanbul with the seniors of my school to introduce the students to the intersection between East and West, the fascinating city that is Istanbul. I was given the impression that this resulted in a lot of understanding and knowledge of that crossroads among the students. However, when we find today that there is a rather impressive list of people who would be denied access to Turkey, this indicates a particularly poor evolution. Mr. Secretary, did you know about that list? I have heard in the media that there have also been questions to the Turkish authorities to explain. Who's on that list? To what extent should we be concerned about the way in which such lists are handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u48	Mr President, Mr De Roover, first of all there is nothing new. Turkey has a no entry list. I'll give you some numbers. Since 2011, Turkey has placed 37 000 individuals from over 100 countries on a no entry list in the fight against foreign terrorist fighters travelling from Turkey to Syria. The list is based on Turkish foreign law, which provides that foreign nationals may be denied access to the territory for reasons of public policy, public security and public health. For Belgium there is a list of 1 224 Belgian nationals. We do not know on the basis of what criteria it was drawn up and we do not know the identity of the people on the list. On 9 March I had a trilateral meeting with the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs and with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration in Ankara with our Turkish colleagues. We have asked for more details on that list, the criteria and the names on it. The Turkish Minister for the Interior has undertaken to provide information to Belgium on this no entry list. That commitment must now be followed up through a contact at the appropriate level. The embassy and the Home Office have requested further information. Unfortunately, we have not received any further clarification so far. I repeat that such lists have existed in Turkey since 2011. We know that there is a no entry list about compatriots, but so far we have not received any clarification from our Turkish colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u49	Mr Minister, when I asked you a moment ago if you had any idea of the existence of such a list, of course I meant this one specifically. Turkey, like any country, obviously has the right to impose certain conditions before people are allowed into the country. That's not in itself the point I wanted to make. However, I would like to express a concern that perhaps exists not only in our group, about the impact and perhaps also the increasing trinity of the Turkish government in regard to the whole world as a kind of domestic within which Turkey would have some kind of jurisdiction. This is happening against the backdrop of the news about intimidation of people here from Turkey. I would therefore urge you to make the necessary efforts on the content and, above all, on the criteria used to put people on that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u50	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the treaty between Canada and the European Union is a great deal of ink, as you know. It has not yet been signed or, a fortiori, ratified. It has been the subject of intense discussions in civil society, trade unions, mutual societies, agricultural and environmental associations. Many events in Europe, and more particularly at home, bear witness to this. In the debates in this House, it became clear that this treaty was dangerous because it undermined our social and environmental model as well as the European democratic idea. In short, this text appeared to be the Trojan horse of the transatlantic treaty, which is still the subject of negotiations. In the course of the discussion on a motion for a resolution from Ecolo-Groen, two requests were addressed to the government. The first recommended not to mandate you to sign this treaty with your European and Canadian counterparts. What federal parliamentarians were unable to do then, Walloon MPs did yesterday. Indeed, a motion for a resolution has been adapted to the Walloon Parliament by a large majority. She asks that the Walloon government not grant you the delegation of signature for this treaty. In a way, this last assembly acted as a whistleblower in the Belgian democratic system. My question is simple: what are you going to do? Did you understand the message? If you do not hear the arguments put forward in civil society, are you going to grasp the message that the Walloon Parliament sent to you yesterday?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u51	Minister of Foreign Affairs, it was with some astonishment that the world learned this morning that the Socialist Party had changed its mind! In 2009, he had agreed to the negotiating mandate. I believe that in 2015, Walloon Region's Minister of Economy, Mr.Marcourt, was also on an economic mission to Canada. But now, in 2016, it's over. The interest in developing a trade agreement with Canada is no longer apparent at all. The treaty should not be signed, and the trade means that such an agreement can provide to a region should be deprived. I must admit that I do not agree with Mr. Hellings. This region really needs it. If there is a region in Europe that needs to develop its commercial activities, it seems to me that it is Wallonia. As I recall, Canada imports $475 billion a year. You can't say he's not buying! I'm gonna stop being ironic. Why? Because the file is too important. In view of the fact that Wallonia is in resistance and that its minister-president is even happy, as he said, to be the only one to have started this process of resistance, I admit that it is difficult to stop being ironic. The Walloon Region has repeatedly said that this treaty should not be signed or ratified. This was said in the gallery of the Walloon Parliament by its minister-president, in response to numerous inquiries. Mr Hellings, you mention all those who are against, but you never mention those who are for the development of commercial activities. I come to my questions, Mr. President. They were put down by colleagues, especially young Mr Boucher, and by Mr Cucke. They were told that the text should not be ratified. When will the European Commission submit the CETA agreement to the Council and the European Parliament? Does the agreement still have to be the subject of a judgment by the Court of Justice as to whether or not it is mixed - which is very important? What are the relationships between the federal state and federated entities in monitoring the negotiating mandate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u52	Mr President, Minister, Europe and Canada have been negotiating a free trade agreement since 2009. In 2014, an agreement was concluded with the support of Flanders and Wallonia. With the support of the same French-speaking parties, who adopted a resolution in the Walloon Parliament yesterday to stop supporting this. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, your political groups are making a big mistake in the Walloon Parliament. Let me explain to you why. This agreement is important for Flanders and Wallonia, for both parties. This agreement builds up customs duties and lowers the tariffs for pharmaceutical companies and agriculture. This agreement is crucial. Well, not supporting this agreement today means no more or no less than masochism, hurting yourself in times of major economic challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, this government wants to move forward and Flanders wants to move forward. However, they are blocked by left-wing political parties in Wallonia. The result is that there is no consensus and loss of face for Belgium. Worse still, if Wallonia does not ratify this, the whole treaty will be called into question and that left-wing group in Wallonia will be held hostage not only Flanders and Wallonia, but also prosperity and jobs. Minister, the Convention may need to be ratified at the beginning of 2017. This government supports the Free Trade Agreement. We hear from the Flemish Government, through Prime Minister Bourgeois, that there is a great deal of concern. That's why I have a few questions. Firstly, what steps do you intend to take to intensify the intra-Belgian consultation? Secondly, have you received any comments from your European colleagues? Did you speak to Secretary Freeland who was visiting here? In the meantime, is she aware of the 'no' vote in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2009, 28 Member States gave the European Commission a mandate to launch negotiations, including Belgium with its different levels of power and with the majorities comprising the governments of each of these levels of power in 2009. The Lisbon Treaty intervened and, in 2011, the Commission asked if it could still start negotiations to protect investment and add that to its mandate. This was decided unanimously by the Member States. Of course, this mandate has been made public. We have had to ask for this on several occasions with regard to Belgium, but we have obtained this publication. On 15 December 2015, the mandate was posted on the European Commission's websites. I recall that the Commission and the Canadian government announced the conclusion of an agreement, not last week, but in September 2014. In the interests of transparency, the text of the agreement was made public in September of the same year. It took some time to analyse in detail the text made public at the time. In February 2016, the Commission and the Canadian government announced the end of the legal review of the texts - this is done systematically after each negotiation - as well as an agreement to replace the investment protection elements of the September 2014 agreement with a new jurisdictional mechanism, which was publicly presented in October 2015. This mechanism is a point-by-point response to the concerns expressed during the consultation of civil society by the Council and the European Parliament. The finalized text is written in English and incorporates this unexpected investment outcome. It was published on the Commission's website. It will therefore be translated. Mr Luykx, you asked for the next step regarding the approval and signature of CETA. On the one hand, after the English text of the agreement between the European Commission and Canada was completed on 29 February, this text will be translated into the 21 other official languages of the European Union. On the other hand, the European Commission will present to the 28 members of the Council a draft decision approving and signing the Convention. These legislative texts are announced for June at the earliest. We will therefore wait until June for the debate to take place. Perhaps it is already possible to hold a first debate in May in the Council of Foreign Trade Ministers. Mr Miller, I would like to make it clear that there is no request for consultation of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. So far, I don't know. I believe that there has been agreement on how the Commission has negotiated the text. In order to prepare the work for the Councils to be held at European level, we will, as always, organise meetings within the Belgian system. In preparation for the next European Councils, Mr Luykx, we will still have meetings, as always, with coordination between all the competent entities, i.e. the Communities and the Regions. I would like to make it clear, Mr Hellings, that while I am very careful about everything that is published, I am still not aware of a precise position that would be adopted by the representatives of the Walloon Region during the preparatory debates for the European Councils in a few weeks' time. I hope everyone will take into account the extent of the economic relationship we have with Canada and the very specific system that exists in Canada, for example in terms of public services or the universal health system. I hope, but I can only address part of the Chamber, that we will also take into account the particularly close relations between certain entities, such as the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, and certain entities in Canada, I am thinking of Quebec. Of course, we can choose to forget all of this. I'm not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u54	Deputy Prime Minister, we can have extremely cordial relations with a partner such as Quebec for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, without necessarily adopting a free trade treaty. Mr Miller, Wallonia, it is true, needs jobs. Not a free trade treaty. If more liberalisation led to employment, that would be the case. These are the policies that the European Union has been pursuing for 30 years, without success in terms of job creation. Deputy Prime Minister, there is a possibility that we announced in our resolution two months ago. It is to mobilise Article 128 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to request an opinion from the Court of Justice of the European Union on the compatibility between the draft agreement as negotiated and the European treaties. Hundreds of thousands of people in Europe are now on the streets. Citizens are asking not to sign this transatlantic treaty, nor, therefore, the treaty with Canada, which is the Trojan horse. I will conclude by saying that this political fight is not a fight between Canada, the United States and Europe. It is a fight between multinationals and democracy and, ultimately, the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u55	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply and for the extremely important elements brought to our knowledge, for the transparency of the developments in this matter and for the way in which the texts were made available to the public. In our view, this agreement remains fundamental. We hope that it will succeed, that it will be signed and ratified. Finally, Mr Hellings, I have heard your attack on liberalisation and the lack of job creation, etc. For my part, I have the weakness to believe that it is the majority vote of the Walloons in favour of socialism that is at the root of the employment problems in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Colleagues of the PS, of cdH, of Ecolo, open your eyes! Open your eyes! Failure to ratify this agreement not only causes loss of face, but also threatens our economy and prosperity. The exports from Flanders to Canada and the imports from Canada to Flanders are important for Belgium, Mr Miller, but if we look at the figures, we find that almost 87% is achieved by Flanders alone. The import rate is almost 97 %. What the members of the PS, cdH and Ecolo are doing today is just confirming that cooperation in Belgium apparently does not work. That is my conclusion and this strengthens our conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this is unfortunately the umpteenth time that I have asked you about the situation in our prisons. Since the beginning of this legislature, the months have followed and become similar, and tensions among those in the service of justice continue to increase. There were clerks, lawyers, magistrates and prison officers in the first place. The strikes of the last few days are yet another demonstration of this. Minister, your prison policy is schizophrenic, there is no other term. On the one hand, you reduce the number of officers and, on the other, you increase their responsibilities and the missions assigned to them. I'm not even talking about index jumps, career lengthening, elimination of sick days, rationalization, institutional safety. The staff is clearly at a standstill. You are imposing downsizing and downsizing. This means deteriorating working conditions and conditions of detention, overworked officers and prisoners whose chances of re-integration are being jeopardized every day. You want these understaffed officers to carry out new tasks, some of which are particularly sensitive, such as preventing radicalization and managing prisoners who are already radicalized. How do we assume these additional responsibilities with fewer officers? Have the guards been trained to prevent the radicalization of these detainees and to deal with those who are already radicalized? In any case, there is no reason to believe that the current emergency situation in our prisons, particularly in Forest, will be extinguished. Minister, do you think you have sufficient resources to meet your prison goals? Should the chronic understaffing of prison officers not put an end to any desire to rationalize staff? Finally, what material means and training are available to staff to manage radicalized prisoners and to prevent radicalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Özen, let me say first of all that I negotiated again this morning with the unions – which I will probably see again tomorrow. I would like to point out that last year's social climate has been fruitful. You're questioning me as if nothing good had been done. As a member of the opposition, of course, it is your duty. However, I remind you that there were few strike days in 2015 – and I hope that this will continue, even if it is never certain. With regard to consultation, seven working groups were set up. Several of them have achieved a positive result. For the time being, the Royal Decree on pre-pension leave which would be carried over to fifty-eight years is reviewed by the Council of State. Another order on flexi-prime designed to compensate for the effect of rationalization on bonuses and to stabilize the salary per prison officer is being negotiated by your servant and the Minister of Public Service, whom I called again this morning. With regard to recruitment, we hired 20 officers in 2015. On the subject of radicalisation, during this morning's trade union negotiations, I presented a positive opinion from the Finance Inspectorate on the commitment of seventy-two people. After contacting my budget colleague, I am still waiting for twenty-eight. It is therefore 100 people who will be engaged. The officers were trained, in particular in Ittre and Hasselt. I will make full use of this year's budget margin for further prison recruitment. I therefore hope that tomorrow we will reach an agreement. I have great respect for prison officers because I know that their work requires a lot of love and commitment. We are doing our best, despite your words that I accept, even if they do not always correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm quite surprised to hear you say that in 2015, there wasn't enough strike days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u61	You said that the trade union atmosphere was not so tormented because, in 2015, the situation was not so catastrophic! I can tell you that the majority of justice actors are unhappy and that the situation in prisons is deteriorating more and more. These people work in unacceptable conditions! They must fulfil their missions with fewer staff, and this creates tensions. In addition, having fewer staff to deal with specific inmates, such as radicalized inmates, will create additional tensions that will be difficult to contain. I repeat, the situation in our prisons is disastrous, and you know that! We are very often condemned. We have to get out of this vicious circle!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly not be surprised by the title of my question concerning the announcement made today in the press and on the radio on the decision taken by Solidaris to reimburse 100% of the consultations, more specifically for general practitioners and gynaecologists. This means that the mutual will fully reimburse the patient's moderator ticket through its supplementary insurance. What's embarrassing is that in the end, the moderator ticket had an extremely important purpose. This aim is in fact included in the term "moderator", which means "moderation" in the context of the use of health care. This is where the block hurts because it is the equivalent of financial accountability for each patient. If I understand correctly, gynaecologists are quite supportive, although, if my information is good, 50% of gynaecologists are not conventional. Therefore, this free care will not be real for a number of patients. The general practitioners, on the other hand, say they are clearly unfavorable. According to them, there is a devalorization of the profession which has obviously not been taken into account. Madam Minister, in order not to be controversial, I would like to know your opinion on this situation. To my knowledge, you are in contact with mutualities, normally as part of a pact. Will this topic be put on the table in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u63	Mr President, Mr Thiéry, thank you for your question. As public authorities, we ensure that health care is accessible to all. For this reason, compulsory insurance includes a series of facilities to guarantee this access to health care. First of all, there is the "maximum bill to bill" (MAF), the preferential scheme or entitlement to increased intervention (BIM) and the third party paying for patients receiving increased intervention when they consult the general practitioner at his or her office. This was put in place in October 2015 to further improve accessibility. The principle of the moderator ticket is that patients become aware of their care consumption. Mutualities reimburse part of the consultation through compulsory insurance, whose role it is. Now, Solidaris reimburses all the expenses, including the moderator ticket via its supplementary insurance, which is not the role of supplementary insurance. For me, interventions by mutuals in the framework of supplementary insurance cannot be in conflict with the principles of compulsory insurance. A reflection is also under way with mutualities so that the packages offered by mutualities are more evidence-based. We continue our dialogue with them. It is obviously their own choice to repay the entire amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you. You have at least clearly answered my two questions. I am rather satisfied with the dialogue that exists with mutualities. I think you committed yourself to it. That's an important point. The second thing is that, in fact, at present, we have a system that works and also takes care of the poorest. You yourself mentioned the MAF and the BIM. I sincerely believe that we are dealing here, from Solidaris, with a good publicity, a good marketing coup. Competition is taking place between the various mutualities, indirectly at the expense of the patients. That is what I remember from this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u65	Minister, you have proposed your reform of civil servants' pensions over the last few weeks. Among other things, you want to remove the diploma certificate and people who want to retire early must work for up to 63 years with a career of 42 years. You also play with the tantièmesk, so that pensions are reduced. You make us believe that everyone in Belgium will have to work longer. Everyone in Belgium will have to work longer. It seems, however, that one category of the population should no longer work. Apparently, the ministers and all the right-wing politicians who have approved the increase in retirement age to 67 may all retire from 55 years. Two thirds of Parliament may retire at 55 years. Well, that's easy, of course. Adopt a law that requires the others to work for up to 67 years and you only to 55 years! That's very easy on the right. It's easy! I can hear you. We are increasingly moving towards the obligation for all to work until the age of 67, but two thirds of the right-wing members present today can retire at the age of 55, just like the ministers. I think it's easy enough to ask others to do what you don't want to do yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u66	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u67	It's proven black on white. I ask you, Mrs Marghem, to show me that two thirds of the members of this assembly cannot retire at the age of 55. You won't be able to bring me evidence to support your statement. Besides, you know that my remarks are correct. Moreover, on 3 July Mr Bracke said that we were going to review the pension system for parliamentarians. A year later, what did we observe? That the public servants' pensions had been reduced! That citizens have been asked to work up to 67 years. But in one year, how have the pensions of parliamentarians been changed? Nothing! Since it seems justified that the Members present here and the Ministers are working up to 55 years of age, would it not be logical to reduce the pension age of workers to 55 years of age and not to have them work up to 67 years of age?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u68	Mr Hedebouw, first of all, I can certify you, ID card in support, that I am 63 years old. Your question, whether populist or not, surprises me. As you should know, I should actually ask you the question. What are you going to do with the MPs' pensions, Mr. Hedebouw? Personally, I am not competent in this matter, even if I have an opinion on it and is not, in any case, populist like yours. I have always considered that the parliamentary mandate is not a profession. In this regard, there are different ways in which things can be conceived. That being said, I am calling for all the reforms and measures that we are proposing today with a view to better harmonisation in pension systems so that the system can remain financially and socially sustainable. In relation to the pension of parliamentarians, I invite you to consult your peers and make sure you feel comfortable in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u69	Minister, that's a little easy because you'll be able to take advantage of this parliamentary pension yourself. How can you justify, when you yourself have this right to leave the pension earlier, that workers in this country have to work longer? In four years of your term of office, you build 1,500 euros of pension entitlement. In eight years' term of office, it's 3,000 euros! And the officials of this country are told that they are privileged! You should be ashamed when you say it's not a profession! People have the right to rest. They have the right to take their pre-pension because they've had a hard time. I find it decadent that we vote for Belgians to work until the age of 67 when we can leave ourselves at the age of 55! It's unfair! The workers in this country will show you in the coming weeks that this is completely unfair!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u70	Mr President, Minister, you announced an energy pact before the end of 2015. I'm talking about an announcement made before the last new year. At the beginning of March, you made a statement of political intent for the end of March. Last Wednesday, you announced that you were going to present a comprehensive vision of the federal government before the holidays. Through the press last Thursday, we learned that this vision would itself be integrated into the energy pact. According to the press again, the criticisms came after the meeting of the Advisory Council on Gas and Electricity, at which participants learned that the study carried out by Elia would serve as a basis for defining the country's long-term energy vision. Madam Minister, we would like you to work towards the construction of an energy pact that is the subject of consensus on the basis of genuine consultation. However, it appears that the stakeholders will have to deliver an opinion by 15 May. You will agree that this deadline is ridiculously short if they want to do serious work. Moreover, it is surprising to define an energy vision on the basis of the Elia study alone, and to appoint, following it, experts to work, at the beginning of this vision, on a true energy pact. The landscape is fixed. Here are my five questions. Is there an agreement from the regional partners to work on an energy vision based on the Elia study and within the time constraints of the stakeholders? Did they all agree to comment on this study before May 15? Could you confirm that discussions on the energy pact will not begin until 2017? Is there an agreement of the federated entities to work according to the methodology announced in the press for this energy pact? What will be the mandate of the expert group, its composition and objectives with respect to the topics under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, the energy pact was your case in this Parliament. All the questions about the extension of nuclear power were really irrelevant to this pact. This pact was to be carried hand in hand with the Regions. It would give us a clear vision and secure a partnership with the various actors in the energy sector. What's the status today? I interviewed you in October 2015. At the time, you answered the following: "The synthesis of the works must be written before the end of the first quarter 2016." We could already see a lag. I refer here to your answer. So I decided to table a question. Mr President, I do not know if you have noticed this, but Mr Gilkinet drew my attention to this point: my question is dated 28 December 2015. It was "aspired" in plenary because, since 8 October, the minister has managed to escape and bypass the traditional work of a commission. This is still a special way of doing things! In any case, this clearly demonstrates the sidereal vacuum of energy policy, with the exception – I fully understand Mr Clarinval's joy – of the extension of nuclear power despite all the risks involved. Madam Minister, can you tell me where you are? Why does this pact take so long? What is the deadline for partners? I am thinking here not only of the economic players, but also of the many environmental associations that are waiting to be able to participate in concrete terms in the drafting of this pact. I really feel like you're going to present them with an all-out plan, take it or leave it in 24 hours. If you still want to give yourself a chance to save this energy pact, you must commit yourself today, on the occasion of your response, to giving the partners time and, above all, to giving them the opportunity to intervene on the substance of the content of this energy pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased for two reasons. I am pleased because my question I tabled at the end of January 2016 is being dealt with today. I am also pleased because we can finally discuss the energy pact and the energy vision. After all, we have often talked about other subjects. However, this dossier is so much more important. My request for an energy vision and an energy pact is, of course, not new. It's not really a question anymore; it's starting to really be a cry for help. Many people have realised that we urgently need a long-term energy policy, an energy vision and an energy pact. This need has long been apparent for the energy sector. After all, it is that sector that first called for such a pact in 2014. That need has been clear to the federal government too for a long time. After all, the pact is incorporated into the federal government agreement. That need has been clear to you too for a long time. After all, the Pact is in your policy paper. It is also stated in the Flemish coalition agreement. So that's a good thing. Nevertheless, I was somewhat disappointed when I recently learned through the newspaper that the Pact was apparently delayed. Indeed, it would have been announced that the Pact would no longer be implemented in 2016 and possibly not in 2017. That's too bad. Apparently, it would also have been agreed that each level would make its own vision, after which, hopefully in 2017, all visions would be put together in order to arrive at a single pact. This means that the plans have been delayed. Madam Secretary, that's why I have some questions for you. What is the situation with the energy vision and the energy pact? What concrete steps have you already taken? It is very important for the Pact to involve stakeholders. How will you deal with this in concrete terms? In order to achieve one vision, you announced in October 2015 that you would work with a declaration of intent that you would conclude with your fellow ministers. When is the declaration of intent due? So my questions are actually very simple. What have you done already? When and how will we finally achieve an energy vision and the energy pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, as Minister of Energy, your first task is to organise a great energy transition and an energy pact that we need very much, like all of Europe. Given the distribution of competencies, you need to work in dialogue, collaboration and coordination with your regional counterparts. There was a great announcement when you took office: you were going to put in place a great energy pact. All this was recalled in 2015. But apart from an announcement effect, we saw absolutely nothing coming. We are told that it would be by the end of 2017. We'll see about it. The method, moreover, is rough. When we ask regional counterparts what the minister's method is and when we ask you, we receive very few answers. Minister, we give you an opportunity to respond. For it is true that apart from March 22nd, since October 8th, you have not had the opportunity. But between October 8 and March 22, five months ago, which is too long. We ask you what your method is. What is the timetable that you guarantee us in this plenary session? What are at this stage the procedural and content elements that are the subject of an agreement between the Federal and the Regions? Has this procedure been agreed with the Regions? You talked about a big association. How will you involve public and private energy actors, social partners, associations, civil society and citizens? We haven't heard anything about it yet, except a study by Elias. Have you submitted your draft Memorandum of Understanding for Common Policy to your regional counterparts? Do you have any agreement on this text and on this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u74	Madam Secretary, my question dates from February. Apparently, there's a problem with answering questions. Like many other Members of this House, I am glad to be able to put them in plenary today. Madam Minister, I do not need to remind you that in January, Belgian climate experts said that they are very concerned about our country's climate agenda. They are concerned because, on the one hand, there is no global vision and, on the other hand, because there is a very great division. Since you announced the Energy Pact last year, we must agree with the experts. There is no global vision, Madam Secretary. Moreover, you have said that each region can draw up its own climate pact and that you will then see how you can achieve it. Madam Secretary, you know that this is absolutely no way of working in this country. We know what the Flemish Government has announced in connection with its climate plan. My party has invoked a conflict of interest in this matter. The implementation of this climate plan is in total conflict with the decisions taken by the Federal Government on the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2. Those two don't go together. One cannot, on the one hand, invest heavily in nuclear energy and, on the other hand, opt for alternatives. Those two don't go together, Madam Secretary. That's what Flanders says, but that's what you actually say. The climate plan, which has been approved by the Federal Government and which the Paris Agreement contains, states the same thing. I wonder how you will connect these things. I come to my questions. Where do you stand with regard to both the content and the timing of the overall plan? Where are you with the talks with the regions? How do you explain that the timing that you yourself have imposed and which is contained in the coalition agreement is not respected at all? I do not need to remind you that in 2017, the federal government will have to submit a national energy and climate plan for the energy transition. How do you reconcile this with the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2? Finally, how will the federal government implement the Paris Agreement and promote alternative forms of energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement provides for our country to develop an inter-federal energy pact that is preceded by an energy vision. The will expressed by the federal government is shared by the governments of the Regions and supported by resolutions adopted unanimously in the parliaments of each region. The stakes are high, because this is a common energy vision that needs to be determined by 2050. In doing so, we need to take into account the different steps that will correspond to the challenges our energy system will face. The aim is to achieve greater efficiency and coherence, as well as to coordinate the actions of the various entities in this country in terms of energy policy. I cannot insist too much on this: we are talking not only about electricity, but above all about energy policy as a whole. Contrary to what you say, we soon began to develop the vision of this pact, since on 13 March 2015, the Council of Ministers first adopted a key document entitled "The Foundations for an Energy Vision". This text describes the federal perspective, thus opening discussions with the Regions. Various working groups then contributed to the development of a methodology. We now want to formalize this process calling on regional ministers to commit themselves through a declaration of intent, as you have indicated. An inter-federal inter-cabinets was again held on 22 April to coordinate the drafting of this declaration of intent. Further meetings are scheduled in the coming weeks. I also consulted informally with the three Regions. It is clear that they want first to refine their thoughts on their energy future, although the federal government has presented its vision in the first place. Thus, the Flemish Region develops its own energy design by 2030. For its part, the Walloon Energy Commission (CWaPE) has undertaken extensive work of reflection and consultation on the various aspects of Walloon energy policy. I believe it is essential to take account of these initiatives, which can only enrich the development of the inter-federal vision and pact, because if regional energy policies interact very little, their impact on the federal government is major. That is why we decided to postulate at the end of this year the sharing of these visions with the aim of developing an overall design. At the federal level, as you know, we have launched a vast project of reflection, but it is not the only one that we are relying on, Mr de Lamotte. It will enrich the work on the Energy Pact. A first study was requested from the TSO (Transmission System Manager) Elia for the period 2017-2027. Its results are currently being analysed by the Federal Planning Office, the National Bank and CREG. A questionnaire on this analysis was proposed to seven hundred and two actors in the energy world. The results will enhance the federal energy vision and thus, later, the Pact. In addition, they will pass under the caudine forks of two experts appointed by the federal government. This is a first step, just like the one developed by the Regions. After all this work, the inter-federal vision can then be developed by a committee of experts appointed by the three Regions and the federal government, with the support of the various administrations and the Federal Office of the Plan, also continuing the consultation of the various actors in the world of energy. You see, therefore, that we have launched together, giving everyone the opportunity to reflect and move forward in their area of competence and keeping each other informed, a broad consultation of civil society and energy actors for an energy policy that is expected to emerge through this pact in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u76	Minister, you're more careful today. You do not indicate a specific deadline or deadline. But 2017 is at our doorstep and will be the moment of truth. In your answer, you refer to the date of the foundation of the intercabinets or the decision of the federal government of March 13, 2015 on the federal objectives. But none of the federated entities approved this document. This montage seems a bit special to me. I hope that this methodology can create real content. I think there will be no real consensus if there is not a credible consultation of all actors based on a societal basis. In order to move forward, we need a genuine energy policy that is not limited to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the only thing that currently exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u77	Minister, I invite you to reread your answer and compare it with what you told us a few months ago. You will find quite easily – the exercise is not too complicated – that your answer today is not only blurred, but that it is also completely out of step with the commitments made here, ten or twelve months ago. It's out of step! You're announcing today that you're "posting." This word hardly hides the fact that you buried the idea of a great energy pact. We can almost already take stock of you, minister. You will have resurrected nuclear power and buried the idea of an energy pact! Triste bilan!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Over the past few years, energy policy has mainly consisted of taking ad hoc decisions. We really need to get off that. Hence the need for a real long-term energy policy and an energy pact. We are already slowing down, because this was already scheduled for 2015. You have now explained what steps have already been taken. The new deadline is 2017. We must make sure that the pact is there. I notice that steps have already been taken at Flemish level. I want to make sure that we do not work at different speeds. Here too at the federal level, we need to step up our efforts so that the deadline of 2017 is met. I expect you to take concrete steps very quickly. I hope that we can have the debate in the Committee on Business. In any case, we will table our resolution on the formulation of an energy pact. We hope that we will be able to discuss this very quickly in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u79	Minister, I'm kind of joining my colleague on the CD&V. In particular, a majority group must table a motion for a resolution in order to get a majority minister to work. At the same time, it must be said that this is the priority over its minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u80	We did it for the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u81	Mr. Chairman, this raises the question at any rate, since the minister feels obliged to react. After a year and a half, Madam Minister, it is always blurry, there is still no method, there is still nothing concrete. You say that you work together, with the Regions, but I see that it is each on its own. While your mission was to ensure the energy transition, we saw nothing. In fact, in this government, it's all about nuclear power. For the Energy Pact, nothing concrete. I hope that you will come very quickly with a real method and concrete elements. You haven't answered any of my questions. We are going to put these questions back in committee. I don't know where you're going!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u82	Madam Minister, your answer confirms what the Belgian experts said in January: lack of vision due to division within our country. You are now announcing a whole series of consultations. You announced that last time. You will move the deadline by two years, from 2015 to 2017, but then again we will have the same problem. Moreover, Madam Minister, you did not reply at all to the fact that the regions are now working on their own plans, which are completely contrary to what is being decided here on a federal basis. You shake no, but this is true. The issues that Flanders has decided before 2030 cannot be realised with the nuclear plan that is being realised here at federal level. This is completely impossible. How you will do this, this energy pact in 2017, is a mystery to me. Once again, although I know that some people in this House do not think highly of scientists, I have to say that I agree with the scientists: no vision, lack of vision and absolutely no consultation with the regions, which means great division and no energy pact. I now predict: not in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, after a few months ago the municipal authorities were repeatedly called upon to create additional reception places for asylum seekers, they are now particularly confronted with the emptiness of homes and apartments that they have put in order, which has often cost thousands of euros. A good reception policy naturally takes into account the influx. Luckily, that influx has dropped over the last few months. A good reception policy also takes into account the partners needed for that reception policy. The local authorities, which provide care, are very important partners, which we must also take seriously. They feel a little misappreciated today. They don't know what they're up to. This is what we read in the newspaper, through the chairman of the VVSG. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play on reception policy? What about the distribution plan, which should normally take effect from 1 May? We see that a lot of places are not occupied. If we count everything, that is more than four thousand places, but since we do not have to occupy the shelters one hundred percent, it can be said that two thousand places are really available. In the collective reception structures we then establish an overcrowding; there is often 500 and more together, which causes tension. That's how the fights broke out in Broechem the other day. The mayor there also asked to halve the number from four hundred to two hundred, because otherwise the situation would not be sustainable. At the same time, it was agreed that the emergency shelters, namely the barracks that were to be set up a few months ago, should be dismantled as quickly as possible. My question is therefore whether this can not be linked to each other. Can we not make use of the places created by the OCMWFs and at the same time relieve the burden on large-scale centres? There is also the question of the VVSG that recognised refugees can stay in the shelter a little longer. Today, after all, there is a problem with housing. Mr Minister, please complete the large-scale emergency shelters as soon as possible. Take on the overpopulation in the centers. Make sure that the places created by the municipalities are used to the full. Also provide spares, for buffering. Also set a transitional period after refugees have been recognised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u84	Mrs Lanjri, first of all I give a compliment to the local authorities and the OCMWs. Minister Borsus and I have spent a lot of time with them over the past few months. We managed the reception crisis well thanks to the help of local authorities and OCMW presidents from the north and south of this country. This has gone very well, and Mr Borsus and I, on behalf of the government, would like to thank everyone for this. At the moment, the influx has dropped sharply. At the moment there are only 925 first asylum applications for April tomorrow. This is again 10% lower than in March and then it was historically low figures. The distribution plan was signed today. This afternoon it goes to colleagues Borsus and Jambon and then to the King for publication in the Belgian Official Journal. The Council of State has said that in order to activate the distribution plan, we need a new royal decision. That is now to the Council of State, and that procedure also takes 30 days. I cannot reach the date of 1 May because 30 days have been added for the opinion of the Council of State. This means that the distribution plan will be fully ready and operational in a few weeks at the latest. Will the dispersal plan be activated? If yes, how many places? A discussion will be held in the government. That discussion has not yet taken place, so I cannot give you any further news today. We follow the situation day after day closely. I can tell you that Mr Borsus and I will once again sit with the partners of the VVSG and its French-speaking and Brussels counterparts, but first we will decide in the government what exactly we will do, given the sharp decline in the number of asylum applications. You're asking if we can't transfer asylum seekers to the LOIs? You must be careful, Mrs. Lanjri. The government agreement clearly stated that collective care should be the standard. For limited, vulnerable groups and asylum seekers with a high level of recognition, reception can take place in the LOIs; in any case, we must have and maintain sufficient collective reception structures. At the moment, the number of asylum seekers in Broechem has already fallen to 391. There were 461 and that number will fall further. I certainly have ears for the mayor's question. Finally, you have questions about the period of two months plus one month plus one month. At present, 5.8 % of places in the reception network go to people who have been in care for more than two months after recognition. I'll allow exceptions. Subject to good motivation, recognised asylum seekers may remain in the reception until four months after recognition. So that's already happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u85	Mr Secretary of State, one and one is two. On the one hand you have overcrowded large-scale centres, where there are 500 to 700 places. On the other hand, some municipalities have made every effort, as we have asked, to prepare ten to fifteen places, but they are now empty. I therefore believe that it would be wise to cut off emergency shelters in large-scale centres, for example in the barracks, for a piece and to activate the places in the municipal councils. That's what I'm asking you. If we did that, we would actually show respect for the work done by the municipal authorities. I am counting on you to do the same and to find a solution in this way. Large-scale centres are not good and it is therefore important that we reduce them. In the coalition agreement we also agreed on this; I was present at the drafting of the coalition agreement. Large-scale reception should be available, but the small-scale local reception initiatives are intended for asylum seekers with a high level of recognition, and there are many of them at the moment. It is true that some nationalities are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u86	The Syrians (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u87	The Syrians have a high degree of recognition. Mr Secretary of State, the selection must be made. We must send asylum seekers with the greatest chance of staying in our country to the local reception initiatives, because they can then become fully integrated. The other asylum seekers can indeed remain in the large-scale centres. This large-scale reception must also remain manageable. We must not keep open centres which were intended as temporary emergency shelters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u88	This brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u89	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 April 2016, after the oral questions, I propose that the report of the special committee responsible for the follow-up of the file "Dieselgate', Nos 1720/1 to 5, be considered. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 April 2016, I propose that you discuss the report of the Special Committee on the follow-up to the "Dieselgate" case, Nos. 1720/1 to 5, after the oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u90	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1720/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1720/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u91	The meeting has resumed. The discussion is resumed. I should like to add a supplementary report. I have four names. Mrs Dierick, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u92	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u93	Thank you, Mrs Dierick. As promised last week, in order to open the debate, I give the floor first to Mr. Van Hees. It will then be Mr. Nollet's turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u94	Mr President, unless I am mistaken, I was at the rostrum when the debate on the report was suspended. It seems to me logical that I should be the first speaker to speak on this subject, but in view of the report, perhaps one of the honourable Members should comment on the amendments tabled. It seems to me that this is the logical way to proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u95	Mr. As Van Hees was the only one who could not speak, it makes sense to give him the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u96	But neither do I! You've suspended the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u97	If you insist, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u98	Mr. President, Mr. Van Hees has important things to say, but a major event happened last week. Taking the words of our colleague from the MR and his statements in the press, we wanted to table an amendment for an additional recommendation in conjunction with the Dieselgate. At that time, Mr. Nollet was actually at the rostrum and the discussions were concluded. You agreed to freeze the discussions and postpone the debate in committee. I believe that we must resume the debate where it was and begin, not with a general discussion of the conclusions, but with the problem that led to the suspension of work, that is, the one related to the amendment that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u99	Mr President, it also seems to me logical that Mr Nollet should take up his speech. A report was tabled following the referral to the Committee of amendments tabled in plenary. I have heard that the report of this session will be added to the main report and that colleagues refer to their written report. To the extent that Mr Nollet would still have some additions to make, I propose to continue the discussion and to address the elements that might arise during this debate, but not to resume the debate that we had on Wednesday spent an hour and a half in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u100	Mr President, we are in the general debate. As you referred the debate back to committee, it took place as Mrs Jadin just said. This gave the opportunity to propose in plenary today an amendment signed by several opposition parties, which could try to synthesize and agree on it. I would like to defend him and present him to our House during the debate, when you consider it useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u101	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees. No, excuse me, I give the floor to Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u102	Mr. Van Hees, I have nothing against you. I even carry you in my heart. I am making a declaration of love and camaraderie before this Parliament. I'm joining my colleagues. We can't act like nothing happened for a week. The debate on the amendment seems to me to be really important. We do not necessarily ask for the floor now, but I want to support this desire to hold an in-depth debate on the substance and the causes. We will have an opportunity to intervene. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, it is with great pleasure that half of our group will give way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u103	Mr President, I am speaking on the order of the speeches. Last week, you formally said, "Mr. Van Hees, you will be the first to speak next Thursday." However, I submit myself to the will of this House, and I gladly give you the floor, Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u104	Mr. Nollet, do you give in? Do you speak to Mr. de Lamotte? [[Sentiment]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u105	Mr President, last week I was in the same place, with the feeling of work done. I referred to 59 recommendations on which we had managed to reach unanimous agreement. I had also listed some regrets such as the lack of ambition of the majority on certain topics, including the compensation of consumers whose vehicle is affected by the Dieselgate. On that same day, we learned that American consumers would receive 4,500 euros to compensate for the damage suffered. That is why we, along with other members of the opposition, wanted to add a small recommendation on European consumers to the other 59. For us, a consumer is a consumer, and an injured consumer is an injured consumer. Whether it is American or European, it must be treated in the same way. Consumer protection must be guaranteed regardless of their nationality. That is what we wanted to explain in committee on Tuesday afternoon. We have said that American legislation is not European legislation and that the government does not have the weight of forcing Volkswagen to compensate consumers. On the first point, I can agree with the majority, the United States is not Europe, but harm must be redressed regardless of the nationality of the affected consumer. I would like to go back to this second point and not let myself be entangled in the speech of a member of the majority who wanted to make us say things that we do not say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u106	What you are saying seems so important to me that I would like to invite you to say it in the presence of the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u107	There's a problem, there's no government member in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u108	Mr. Chairman, we have met more than 12 times to develop 59 recommendations. The least that could be done would be for a member of the government to be present in this debate. I therefore propose that we suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u109	Mr. de Lamotte, are you asking for the presence of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u110	Mr President, in the first debate, the government was present. This is a recommendation addressed to the latter. So I ask you to contact him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u111	The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u112	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u113	Minister, I'm glad you're here. If you'll allow me, I'll take my word back. Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we were here for a similar debate. We have managed to agree unanimously on 59 recommendations, despite regret over the lack of ambition on a few issues, including compensation for consumers whose vehicles are affected by the Dieselgate. Madam President of the Commission: this is all for this! We had a deal. And then the calendar decided that... and you communicated in the press. We have suggested an amendment that you have not accepted. In fact, we have learned that US consumers will receive 4,500 euros to compensate for the damage suffered. That is why we, together with the other members of the opposition, wanted to add a small recommendation on European consumers. For us, in fact, a consumer is a consumer and an injured consumer is an injured consumer, whether American or European, and it must be treated in the same way. Consumer protection must be guaranteed, regardless of their nationality. Unfortunately, last week, the majority did not want to follow us on this amendment, justifying its choice by the fact that the legislation is very different in the United States than in Europe, but also by saying that the government did not have the power to oblige Volkswagen to compensate consumers. If, on the first point, I can agree with you: the United States is not Europe, an injury suffered must be remedied regardless of the nationality of the affected consumer. But it is on the second point that I would like to return to. In this committee, a member of the majority had the audacity to say that, basically, we did not want to protect the consumer, but that we wanted to put obligations on the government so that we could incriminate it then if consumers were not compensated. I would therefore like to reassure you and reassure the majority once again that the amendment requires only obligations of means and not results. It is essential that this commission closes by emphasizing that the government is doing everything in its power for consumers. Consumer protection must be defended at all costs. Of course, it is already anticipated that manufacturers will have to compensate consumers in the event of a loss of value, for which the government will start the process, as you told the radio yesterday morning. But this only applies when the loss of value has been established. On the other hand, the damage which the consumer has suffered since the purchase and, for example, the difficulty of resale are not taken into account. However, Volkswagen vehicle owners have already told me the difficulties they had in reselling their vehicle. I doubt that this will improve with time, especially since there is still no resale monitoring. That is why we have decided many to table a new amendment which, I believe, responds more to the concerns of both and the majority. Indeed, it points out that the debate will take place well at European level and that it is indeed an obligation of means and not of results that is foreseen. In many other recommendations, we have also provided for this obligation of means. Moreover, the amendment no longer provides for identical compensation for American and European consumers, because it is true that the situation is a little different. You see that we can adapt during the discussion. In conclusion, I can only hope that the majority will support this amendment, which highlights the main concern for consumer protection. This amendment calls for the addition of a point 16/1, which reads as follows under the heading of consumer protection: "It calls on the Federal Government to take steps and make every effort at European level to provide compensation for consumers whose vehicles are affected by the Dieselgate". This is no different from what exists in the other recommendations, and I want to add it for those consumers who are injured. They bought a product that was not the one they were supposedly sold to. There was a deceit on the merchandise. I, along with my colleagues from other parties, want these consumers to be compensated. The pole is tense so that a consensus can be reached, to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u114	Mr President, I will not speak on the amendment. My colleague will take care of it later. Instead, I will look at the overview of the recommendations for the Dieselgate. As I have already been able to express in my capacity as rapporteur, I must say to you the personal satisfaction with the work of the committee. I must add that my position will continue, even though the majority – which I obviously do not hope – would reject our amendment. Indeed, the recommendations are important. Mr. Minister of Defence, of course it is essential that you be here with us, but I ask you to act as an intermediary to your colleagues. I find it paradoxical that we are sending the army – our Minister of Defence – to participate in our work on the Dieselgate, a matter that concerns several other ministers, because none of them have been able to free themselves. It's kind of a horseman. In committee, we received Minister De Block, as this case has an impact on health, Minister Peeters, given the consequences in terms of consumer protection, Ms Galant when she was Minister of Transport and Minister Marghem when she was Minister of the Environment. Today, none are available, and the army is sent! All right! You will relay our discussions with your colleagues to highlight the various points that my colleagues and I will discuss. The recommendations that we have adopted include real progress with regard to traditional parliamentary work. I sincerely believe that we have done a useful job in this area. I will not review each recommendation, but I will highlight some of them. The first is obvious, but it seemed important to us to be able to recall it. It would be unfair to condemn a consumer who has nothing to do with responsibility for Volkswagen's mistakes. I am quoting Volkswagen here, but there are, unfortunately, more and more car brands involved in this Dieselgate scandal. Minister, I would like to address with you the fifth recommendation, the one that has the originality of asking the government, of which you are a member, to ensure that the quality of the information is improved, including providing access to the content of the famous software. Minister, what do you think? This is an extremely important recommendation. At this stage of the debate, it would be useful to have your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u115	Mr Nollet, that is not the case! We are in the discussion of a report. I appreciate the government being here. I had asked him for it. However, we are not entering into a debate with the government. The latter is here to take note of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u116	Mr. Chairman, I did not say that the government had to respond, but I would have appreciated his views on a recommendation that I personally consider important and that concerns access to the software. I refer here to Recommendation 58, which calls on the government to table an action plan on each of the recommendations by the end of the year. At that time, I assume that we will have, in the head of government – perhaps you will be again the one we will send, Minister of Defence – at least a clear vision of how you will translate each of these recommendations. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to witness that you will be in touch with your colleagues, if you do not be able to answer me today. I stress that, in the action plan to be tabled in connection with Recommendation 58, a forward-looking agenda is needed. For each of the recommendations, you are asked to tell us what the implementation agenda for the various recommendations is. This also applies to Recommendation 9. A lot of this has been discussed in committee and Mr Miller will remember his decisive intervention in this debate, the one on whistleblowers. Mr Miller, you will recall that we have concluded, thanks to your proposal for a consensus...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak because a week has passed between my speech and Mr Nollet's remarks today. Last week, we had the opportunity to speak on recommendation 9. Should we recall the search for consensus that has been ours, our willingness to work together on these proposals for recommendations? We have been legit throughout the process. That is why it is somewhat regrettable that some amendments have been drawn up at a time when the debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u118	Mrs Jadin, in my introduction, I made it clear that, regardless of the fate of our amendment, our vote will not change. I said it and I say it officially: the work that has been done is of quality. But this work has led to Recommendation 9 which is not currently under discussion. In any case, no amendments have been tabled on this subject. The amendment is intended to introduce an additional recommendation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Miller for his speech, which sought to reach a consensus on an issue that is known to be delicate and difficult. It was entirely legitimate on your part, Madam Chairman of the Committee, to recall that we agreed that a debate on the principle of whistleblowers should no longer take place. The debate should focus on the modalities. In doing so, allow me to refer to the recommendation. Thus, the government is asked to study, after consultation with the various sectors – with the aim of insisting that this is not limited to the automotive sector alone – the way in which a legal system is implemented, which is no longer the subject of discussions on the principle for whistleblowers and, most importantly, of their legal protection. In the context, I dare say, of the second reading we have had in committee, the majority has highlighted the second paragraph of Recommendation No 15 which is of importance, since it allows – as you have also said – to guarantee to the consumer, if a loss of value is established as a result of the technical adaptations related to the Dieselgate, that manufacturers will ensure that there is adequate compensation. It is important to stress this paragraph, because the preceding paragraph simply asks the government to assess the appropriateness of setting up monitoring, but the second subparagraph is not conditional on the first. He exists as such. My colleague Anne Dedry has already had the opportunity to clarify the full force of the public health recommendations. I will not go back to that, but I would also like to stress Recommendation No 31, which is being applied at European level. It calls on the federal government to work to strengthen European standards for NOx and fine particulate matter. In particular, it states: "... so that the second compliance factor is already reduced for new cars entering the market from 2020". It is important to give this mandate to the Belgian Government in order to speed up the revision of the standards considered to be largely too lax in this area. Recommendation 39 places technical experts in their place in view of the political responsibilities, the delegated official being obliged to respect the mandate given by the Minister. It is the latter's responsibility to give a mandate in these European comitology bodies. Unfortunately, this was not the case and Belgium, by the voice of its expert-staff, accepted the derogations. I will add one more word about the tax framework. Indeed, we have also discussed a great deal in the committee on the need for a modal shift that allows and supports more intensive use of soft mobility, public transport and cleaner fuels. In this area too, we are waiting for the government by the end of the year, as each of the recommendations must be translated into concrete terms by the end of the year. I cannot help but see this as a point of support for the new Minister of Mobility, so that within the government itself, he can rely on these recommendations to claim another budget framework for SNCB that Ms Galant had accepted at the time. Recommendations 51 and 54 are consistent. It calls for a strengthening of the budgets for clean mobility, in which one can obviously think of the SNCB budget. That is our speech, which complements that of my colleague Anne Dedry, who had the opportunity to speak last week. These are all reasons why we will vote in favour of these recommendations, with attention to the amendment, but it is not the vote on the amendment that will determine our vote at the global level. Recommendation 58 will regularly bring us back here and in committee on how the government will transpose it into the various legal and other texts that it will adopt in the wake of the recommendations of the plenary session. I thank the minister for paying particular attention. We can trust him, so that what has been said here is reported to the government. If that wasn't the case, I'll be talking to him in six months' time to take stock. I see him already sending messages and text messages to his colleagues, so I am relatively confident. Otherwise, of course, I would like to ask him again, mainly on recommendation 9. Take note of it, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back! I see you have time. We're not necessarily going to finish early today. First of all, I must tell you that we share some of the recommendations of this text. I am thinking of the part on consumer protection. Similarly, it is correct to ask the federal government to advocate at least for the application of WHO fine particulates standards in the context of harmonisation at European level. On the other hand, and the discussion on compensation for American consumers reflects this very well, we have the impression that we miss out by leaving behind those responsible for the scandal that are playing with our lives and our environment, those multinationals that are willing to do anything to make a profit. The current situation shows, however, that these multinationals can be asked more. This is demonstrated by the debate that we started last week on the US$5,000 that the multinational Volkswagen is about to pay to every American buyer of one of its rigged vehicles. The fact that such a request is not included in the text is quite illuminating. The lesson we should learn from this case is that it is time to tackle the impunity of these large multinationals. The problem doesn't stop at Volkswagen. Multinationals who cheat to make even more profit are a structural problem. It is now known that Mitsubishi and Opel also rigged consumer tests for 25 years. In short, although this text contains some good recommendations, not to attack, even a little, the impunity of multinationals is enough to judge the work insufficient. What about prosecution? What about the lobbies? What about the rotating doors, i.e. the lack of tightness between the business world and the public sphere? What about Volkswagen's CEO's start-up premium? The finding of these serious crimes would not have any consequences for the culprits who even receive bonuses. Yesterday it was reported in the press that for 2015, the year of the scandal, 63 million remunerations were paid to the twelve members of the Executive Board and that the principal responsible, the former CEO Martin Winterkorn, received €7.3 million. They are told today that €4 million will only be paid to them in three years' time if the stock exchange changes well. What needs to be done to improve Volkswagen's stock exchange course? We need to invent a new rigged software or a new misuse that will further increase the profits of the multinational. This kind of policy or lack of policy vis-à-vis multinationals is not so surprising on the part of this government and this majority. This, of course, makes the population angry because we find that those who put their money in Panama and profit themselves at the expense of the whole population, our health and our environment, seem to be above the law. This problem is structural in our economic system. The 147 largest multinationals control 40 per cent of the world economy; the top 737 controls 80 per cent of the world economy. These companies are too big to fail, too big to manage but above all also too big to control. And of course this situation is not limited to car manufacturers. I could recall Nestlé's murderous campaigns against breastfeeding; or the case of Chevron who in 2013 totally refused to pay for the clean-up for which she was responsible in Ecuador; or to take a Belgian example, the asbestos scandal of Eternit. By stifling the affair with a report which we believe is far too light, we are complicit in these multinationals, as is already the case with the European institutions. With the help of the CD&V and Vlaams Belang in particular, the European Parliament did not use its veto against the Commission's rather dubious or revolting decision to temporarily increase the emission limits of nitrogen oxide for diesel cars. In addition, the European Commission has been aware of the fraud software since the end of the non-anticipating years. At that time, it was the big fraud on US trucks, but the Commission did not give the slightest impetus to investigate the case. As a result of this culpable negligence, Audi invented the fraud software in 1999, and VW used it from 2005. This text also includes a Mobility section. We can see that the text rightly calls for "a policy that encourages citizens to use alternatives to private cars": soft mobility, public transport, carpooling, and asks the federal government to translate it into the policies concerned. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do you support this text well? I suppose you have realized by observing the policy of this government that this government is doing exactly the opposite! Unless the new Minister Bellot takes the exact opposite of Minister Galant and the government agreement. Today, we are in the process of destroying public transport with a three billion reduction in the allocation of SNCB. Before I finish, I will again point out that one might wonder whether there is a hidden reference to nuclear energy in the text. In the section on taxation, it is proposed to invest in a low-carbon electricity strategy. We believe that the energy we need to invest in is green, sustainable energy, such as solar and wind electricity, i.e. zero carbon. The fact of choosing the word "low carbon" seems to be, but you can contradict me, a hidden reference to nuclear energy which is neither green nor sustainable and, in Belgium, certainly not sure, that is the least we can say. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I was able to say in my general speech in plenary last week, the PS Group will support the 59 recommendations adopted in committee. These 59 recommendations are a good basis for work. Now it's up to the government to take over. I'm not going to go back to all the things I was able to discuss last week. I would just like to say a few words on the issue of compensation for Volkswagen customers, to be sure that they were well understood. In the United States, the owners of the vehicles concerned receive $1,000 and three years of free assistance from Volkswagen. This is a commercial gesture by Volkswagen USA. This has nothing to do with the ongoing legal proceedings. And this has nothing to do with the American legal system. It is only because VW USA fears the reaction of US authorities and customers more than that of European authorities. Last week, during this debate, we learned that there was also a question of an additional compensation of $5,000 per client. This second part of the compensation is part of a judicial procedure. Given the evolution of the case in the United States, we do not find it acceptable that for European consumers, Volkswagen does not foresee any surplus of the re-conformity of vehicles. At Tuesday's committee, the majority rejected our amendment, which calls for financial compensation for European customers deceived by Volkswagen. In fact, I don't quite understand the majority's choice. We have the impression that the majority are afraid of Volkswagen. This is a company so big, so rich, so many jobs that it doesn't even need to lobby to scare. Together with other colleagues, we are again tabling an amendment to defend the interests of European consumers. I hope it will be accepted by the majority this time. We must agree that Parliament should send a strong signal to Volkswagen for equal treatment. We must tell Volkswagen that a European consumer is worth an American consumer. One cannot be hungry more than the other and much less eaten.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u121	Mr President, very briefly and from my point of view, I would like to say that, of course, we still support the 59 recommendations, but also the amendment before us for three reasons. Firstly, every consumer is entitled to equal moral compensation. There can't be a difference between the US and Europe. Secondly, Volkswagen refused a friendly settlement in March and clearly never intended to give it. That is unacceptable. Thirdly, there is an absolute need for compensation for the breach of trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u122	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u123	• 3 – Michel de Lamotte cs (1720/6) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u124	The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the motion for a resolution tabled to wind up the debate on the report by the special committee responsible for the follow-up of the file 'Dieselgate' will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the motion tabled at the end of the debate on the report of the special committee responsible for follow-up to the "Dieselgate" dossier will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u125	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Laurette Onkelinx, Daniel Senesael, Fabienne Winckel, André Frédéric, Alain Mathot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u126	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1206/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1206/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u127	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to see that this motion for a resolution was finally supported by all the members of the committee and the minister, who made commitments. What is it? The goal is to participate even more in the fight against HIV infections. You know that more than a thousand new infections are diagnosed every year in our country. This corresponds to an average of about three new HIV cases per day. It's huge! For this reason, a national HIV plan has been developed. One of the four pillars of this work is screening, which is fundamental. At the time of our discussion, this intervention is still too late, particularly in certain groups such as men who have sex with other men. There are many reasons for this: lack of attendance at conventional screening facilities, fear of stigma or difficulty in communicating with care professionals about sexual orientation or sexual practices. Therefore, we want to enable recognized associations and community workers to conduct decentralized and de-medicalized HIV AIDS testing among particularly vulnerable target groups and to ensure the support that this screening requires before, but also after, its implementation. This exists in other countries. A pilot project called Test-Out was also conducted at our home in 2013 by the ASBL Ex-Aequo. The screening was carried out by representatives from the target group. Screenings were carried out on a truck in the gay district of Brussels. They took place in gay institutions where sexual acts are consumed, but also at weekly duty stations in the ASBL premises. During this pilot, we found that the results were excellent. This is why this decentralized and demediated screening is now carried out by a whole series of associations, the Higher Council of Health, but also, under certain conditions, the Order of Physicians. At a time when scientists around the world are calling for increased screening and early treatment, we are confident that this type of screening will increase the number of early screenings and thus ensure better care for HIV patients. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that this motion for a resolution has been unanimously supported by the colleagues in the Committee on Public Health. Minister De Block is also committed to ensuring that this resolution is followed up quickly. I believe that today's Parliament will contribute to intensifying the fight against the scourge of HIV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u129	Mr President, I join Mrs Onkelinx on the quality of the work that has been done in our Committee on Health. Above all, I stress the constructive side of the discussions that have taken place. Ms. Onkelinx defined the framework of the resolution well. I won't come back. I am just going to talk about two or three elements that were discussed during the committee and that we felt were important. The aim is to reaffirm our desire to change the legal framework so as to allow the organisation of de-mediated and decentralized testing. This organization is also the responsibility of the federated entities. That being said, the very principle of this decentralized and de-mediated screening is a challenge that we must all be aware of. That was the subject of the discussions in our committee. The implementation of the Belgian national plan of 2013 required a legislative amendment that had not been made at the time. Our Minister of Health has repeatedly voted in favour of this amendment, which is under consideration. As the Superior Council of Health and the Belgian National Plan of 2013, it is important to reserve the use of decentralized and de-medicalised strategies to those who, if not, would pass between the meshes of the net, as has been the case regularly so far. Decentralized and de-mediated screening is a response to the access difficulties faced by some groups. At this point, I would like to highlight a few points. In its opinion, the Higher Council of Health determines precisely the parameters to be taken into account in organising this screening. The National Council of the Order of Physicians also addressed this issue in its opinion of 24 July 2014. He has identified a number of recommendations that need to be taken into account, which is why I have had the text amended in committee. All guarantees of hygiene and good screening practice must be respected. Such screenings must also be organized, supervised and evaluated by approved reference structures with trained doctors. Training and competence are essential; they must also be assessed. Follow-up and support measures will therefore need to be defined so that the person is not delivered to himself or herself during this review. In broad terms, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the various comments I wanted to make on behalf of my group, being convinced that this type of screening is part of a comprehensive strategy to combat AIDS in addition to the existing mechanisms that have already proved their worth. In conclusion, my group and I will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u130	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u131	****** Mrs Pas, can you explain your amendment very briefly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u132	Mr President, I can explain it very briefly. This is a concern raised by several members of the committee during the debate. This is a mixed competence. Our only concern is that, if the proposal is taken to heart and implemented, the government will consult with the Länder and ensure that everyone remains within their competence. That is the only thing we want to obtain from the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u133	The vote on the amendment will be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u134	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice has been presented with a text by its appropriate minister, which essentially seeks to amend provisions relating to the internment of persons, but also, as has unfortunately become a habit, various amendments to the Judicial Code which have nothing to do with internment, electronic service and certain amendments to the Code of Criminal Investigation. Of course, most of the committee's discussions focused on changes to internment. This particularly important point has been the subject of a series of hearings of actors in the field, both medically and with regard to the support of internees. There are amendments in this text which are purely technical adaptations. You may recall that the last law dated May 5, 2014. So it's very recent. However, practice has shown that corrections should be made or that deficiencies should be addressed. As I said, there are purely technical adaptations and other adaptations which have led to a debate in the committee, since all the Commissioners do not share the opinion of the author of the text and the majority who supported it. As it stands, these were changes provided for in the implementing rules when it comes to internees who are illegally staying in Kingdom territory. The draft text leads to differences in treatment between these people and those who have a regular status in our territory. On the other hand, much more fundamental elements have been introduced. The most important thing is to introduce that, from now on, to proceed with internment and therefore decide that there is no guilt, we will have to find ourselves in a situation where the act committed is particularly serious. The text refers to a "crime which cannot be corrected under article 2 of the Act of October 1867 on mitigating circumstances" or "a crime which can be corrected under this Act if the act has caused a physical or mental injury or a threat to the physical or mental integrity" and finally, "an offence which has caused a physical or mental injury or a threat to the physical or mental integrity". It is, in a way, the introduction of a threshold. Any element of a criminal, criminal or correctional nature – criminal – will no longer allow for internment. The fact will have to be considered sufficiently serious. It is this concept of threshold that has essentially retained the work of the Commissioners and the questions raised by them. Indeed, would those who could not "benefit" from the law on internment not be given a form of impunity, since other elements could still be invoked to consider that they were not responsible for their acts? The minister was asked to give answers to these questions. In order for internment to be decided today, guarantees are included in the text, namely that a psychiatric examination will be compulsory, issued and carried out by a psychiatrist, not necessarily and only a psychologist. The matter of internment is entrusted to what is created in our courthouses and is now called the social protection chamber. The possibility of appeal against the internment decision is brought by the Social Welfare Chamber, which was not the case before. This creates a correctional chamber near the Court of Appeal. Provision is made for placement in a social welfare institution or section organized by the federal authority, thus leaving the intern of the penal institutions, which is nevertheless an essential concept. Finally, there is the introduction of time requirements of the Law on External Legal Status with a view to establishing parallelism with the provisions of the Law in the event of the simultaneous execution of a custodial sentence. As far as the amendments to the Judicial Code are concerned, they focus on the status or situation of magistrates, their disciplinary regime. These are essentially technical corrections. The introduction of electronic service will replace, whenever possible, the service in person and thus allow substantial savings both in time and also in financial elements, particularly at the level of the public prosecutor's offices. We are pursuing what was already envisaged in each of the "pot-pourri" laws that we have adopted since the introduction of this legislature. With regard to the Code of Criminal Investigation, it is now a matter of extending or assigning the position of judicial police officer to the Attorney General and the judges of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Auditor General who have not so far enjoyed it, whereas at the level of the first instance, that was the case. These are the elements contained in the draft before us. I indicated what the Commissioners had discussed. I imagine some of them will come to the gallery to explain it. As regards the committee's vote, after a second reading, the text was adopted by ten votes in favour and two abstentions. Mr President, I will very quickly deliver the point of view that the CDH defended when examining this text. We welcome the proposed elements of internment. These are interesting steps in the direction of better taking into account the human dimension and the dignity of people in a particularly complex and difficult matter, especially when it is necessary to involve them in the commission of a crime, and a sanction must be given. We are no longer so used to it in the Justice Committee and in the assembly, but for once, the bill has focused on this particular dimension rather than on budgetary or material considerations. We will no longer speak of a judge of internment, but of a judge of social protection. Private rooms are created to know about them. I was more critical of elements of this text relating to the situation of foreigners in an irregular situation, which I consider discriminatory. They should benefit from internment measures. The Council of State also criticises these measures in its opinion. This is one of the weaknesses of the text. I also regretted that the minister took advantage of the review of this internment document to introduce other amendments that had nothing to do with the subject matter of internment. We're making it a tote law. We can therefore find it difficult to compare ourselves with the texts submitted. If the text on the various amendments to the Judicial Code and the Code of Criminal Investigation had constituted different entities, we could have had a different attitude towards it. I am referring to an abstention, which we would not have had on the essential text of this document, namely the one concerning internment. Between the proposals made to us and which had nothing to do with them, it seemed interesting to my group to be able to move forward on the subject of internment, which is why we will support this text in its entirety, despite certain imperfections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u137	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come: the new internment law is a fact. For decades, internment has been the disgrace of justice. The shortcomings in the field of internment have been severely criticised for many years. That's because there's an inappropriate treatment of internees. Too often they are locked up in prison without the necessary care and guidance. Repeated sentences by the European Court of Human Rights, even a dozen last year, were the unfortunate result. Previous initiatives taken to reverse the tide, in 2014 and 2007, have not yet been implemented. The fact that progress is finally being made and that the government has highlighted this as a priority, both internment and mental health in general, is a very good thing. Today, almost 900 interned people are still in Belgian prisons, which corresponds to as much as 10% of the prison population. However, as said, interned people do not belong in prison; they need therapy in a secure framework. At last, those pain points are being addressed. This design focuses on tailor-made care for interns, but attention is also paid to the protection of society and the rights of the victim. In discussing this subject, we have been able to hear the people on the ground who are working on daily internment, from all sides. We have noted that the general tone was positive. That's what matters, that the field can get started. Perhaps the most striking thrust of the design is the introduction of a threshold for internment. In the future, only crimes affecting physical or psychological integrity will lead to internment. The aim is clear, in particular to prevent the improper use of internment. The imposition of an internment measure has a very significant impact on the life of the person concerned. The final date for release cannot be determined, which means that it will be an unlimited measure. We can therefore certainly follow and endorse the principle that internment is not appropriate for light or banal facts. Can it be justified that a person who commits a shoplifting would be deprived of his freedom indefinitely? We also heard in the hearings that a refinement and an extension of the scope were and are at issue. A number of bodies were concerned about the group which is outside the scope of application, which is understandable. That group must not fall without help and psychiatric help. That remains a focus. Our group welcomes the announcement of the arrival of an observation centre, a centre where a mentally ill perpetrator will be observed for a long time, after which the judge can make a well-founded ruling. There will therefore be an end to the dramatic and contradictory debates between psychiatrists before the courts. Legally, such a centre has been possible for years, since the 1990s, but in practice it has remained unfortunately dead letter until today. At the end of last year, a returned and seriously injured Syrian fighter from the Belgian State demanded compensation of as much as 100 000 euros. Before his conviction in another, prior trial, the judge ruled that he should first be observed thoroughly in order to determine whether or not he was insanity. At that time, the observation center didn't exist. This will not be possible in the future, thanks to the observation centre, which will be available in 2020. A solution is provided for in the meantime. In the meantime, under the conditions of the present bill, an observation will be possible. In any case, mental health care needs to continue, both inside and outside prison. It has been proven that better mental health care, both for the interned and inmates, leads to a lower risk of recidivism. This is in everyone's interest, in the interests of the interned and detained, but also in the interests of society's security. This draft law is clearly a first and major step. It focuses on the development of mental health care in general, but also on a smooth inflow, flow and outflow between prisons, FPCs and the regular care sector. There was a need for that in the erratic trajectory that an interned one is going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u138	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 'pot-pourri I', civil matters, 'pot-pourri II', criminal matters, 'pot-pourri III', internment. In his very comprehensive and well-summary report, Mr Brotcorne said the essence of this potpourri, which has been the subject of useful consensus discussions with enlightening hearings, which have been taken into account. As the work in committee has shown, internment is not a penalty. Too often, it is considered to be a pain and confusion in the mind of the population. It is a protective measure both for society and for the individual himself. We were able to note the almost unanimous approval of the people who were heard as part of your proposed amendment to the rules related to internment. The first major innovation is the implementation of the principle that will now form the basis of internment: a threshold of gravity so that internment can be pronounced. Indeed, for an internment to take place, it will now take a crime or an offence that has led to a particularly heavy or psychological physical injury. It will therefore no longer be possible to pronounce the internment, and therefore a penalty to be determined, for what was called in committee "a little larceny". These people must be treated and their place is not in prison, as is still too often the case today. It is a fundamental change, even a small revolution, unreservedly supported by my group. A rather recurrent criticism had marked our group and it will have to be analysed for use: in the social welfare chambers, there will be no health specialist able to inform them about the evolution of the mental state of the internee. I heard your argument that there would not be enough forensic psychiatrists to fill all the positions, plus full-time positions. On the other hand, there would always be a risk of conflict of interest because the psychiatrist might have known the patient, hence a risk of revocation. We will see to the use if this argument has a relevant meaning. I would point out that the draft provides that the observation will no longer take place in a psychiatric annex of the prison. That's a great step forward. It is undeniable that these psychiatric annexes are not equipped for in-depth observation. As we have pointed out, this centre must be set up as quickly as possible so that the measure can actually have its effect. I welcome the fact that the project provides for the revocation of trial freedom or electronic surveillance, which will no longer lead to placement in a psychiatric annex, but only to placement in a social defence institution. I also welcome the fact that the person can now be assisted by a doctor or a lawyer when his or her forensic expertise is carried out. For all these reasons, our group will support your text, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u139	Mr President, Mr Minister, while we can agree on a large part of your bribe, we regret some of the choices that have been made in committee. In general, we deplore, above all, an umpteenth amendment to the Internment Act. So be it. However, we strongly hope that it will be quickly and fully implemented and that the budgetary means – because it is the nerve of war – will be released to make it effective. As for the various changes, while we can generally adhere to your desire to simplify, computerize, etc., one point seemed much more questionable to us: the attribution to judicial officers of the competence to manage and preserve the electronic judicial addresses and digital documents via the central register of authentic dematerialized acts of judicial officers. The list and the data contained therein can be consulted exclusively by the judicial officers in the execution of their legal tasks under the control of the National Chamber of Judicial Officers. This attribution of jurisdiction is questionable in the sense that the National Chamber is mandated and paid to monitor and operate a system of which it is the only beneficiary, making the appearance of impartiality of the judicial officers fairly questionable – we have repeated it enough in commission. On the other hand, we also proposed – I say "we", you missed the opportunity – that these email addresses be made available to other administrations. With regard to internment, it is highly gratifying that the draft provides for internment only for persons who have committed serious offences that have harmed the physical or psychological integrity of persons. However, as was pointed out in our committee work, it is mainly the troubles that the person presents that are important and that are decisive for his or her handling more than the seriousness of the offence. In addition, what care will be provided for individuals who have committed an offence against property? What is the route of care that will be assigned to them? Will they have to stay or be placed in the psychiatric annexes of the prisons, or even worse: to be locked in simple cells in which no treatment of mental disability will be organised? Our fears remain, therefore, as to the fate that will be reserved for them. My group welcomes the emergence of the concept of "care journey", as well as the flexibility of leave and release on trial. However, we can only deplore the fact that these internees cannot access any form of execution of the internment measure until they meet the time requirements of the Law on External Legal Status. By definition, however, internment is not a punishment, but a security measure, so they must receive a different status and treatment from convicted persons who are deemed to be responsible for their actions. I agree with the remark made by my colleague Christian Brotcorne, who put a heavy flat on your project. I'm going to talk about people in an irregular situation, who are severely discriminated against. I will not imitate Mr. Hedebouw in speaking of "Momo, 52 years old, interned, who will not be able to go out for his holidays on the same basis as Jean", but we have learned that 10 to 15% of the inmates of the Regional Centre for Psychiatric Care Les Marronniers were in illegal residence. This rate is therefore not negligible. In any case, these persons are excluded from the traditional scope of the procedures for the execution of internment, in particular exit permits which are nevertheless part of the treatment, but which will not be applicable to these internees, since only release is provided for for for removal from the territory or for surrender to person. This is highly critical, because it is discriminatory and unbiased with adequate care that can be provided to them. Another point of disagreement: it will no longer be psychiatrists who will sit in the social welfare chamber, but psychologists, who are less able to make the necessary decisions. The psychiatrists assessors today shed specific light on the psychiatric problem, on the diagnosis, the treatment that will be recommended and the possibilities of re-integration at the psychiatric level. We regret that this change reduces the expertise and allows psychologist assessors to criticize the opinion of psychiatrists. There is much to bet, as we have pointed out in the committee, that the budgetary gain will be called into question by the need for complementary forensic expertise, which will ultimately nullify the gains achieved. Finally, another point I made in committee, although Flanders was lagging behind in setting up adapted centres, we can only note that much more is being invested in Flanders, much less in Wallonia and not at all in Brussels. Consideration must be given to restoring balance and investing in Francophone institutions in terms of staff, centres adapted to the long stay, but also in the infrastructure that is aging. Mr Minister, in view of our disagreements on certain points of your reform, my group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u140	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing potpourri III. It will be a ranking: I, II, III and IV would arrive. There is an important chapter on regulation, especially in litigation. The key word was simplification and the organisation needed to be streamlined. I am thinking here of electronic service, the organisation of courts and courts, the disciplinary courts. A number of adjustments have been made, but above all the internment chapter is a very important element. This is, we hope, a milestone in the overall implementation of the internment. After all, we have had several laws on internment, which included important principles of care, also for those convicted and interned. However, its implementation was difficult and the well-meaning efforts of 2007 and 2014 are hopefully now in place in a viable way. In committee, we were able to debate and hold hearings in detail, which was not unimportant. The fellow Members who were present in 2014 will remember that when the draft came out of the Senate, we were asked in the Justice Committee to approve it fairly quickly. The draft contained principles such as making the concern for treatment operational. However, we had to do so very quickly. We hope that after the exercise that is taking place today, with limited changes possible even after the hearing, things will become operational. Reference has already been made to the important element of limiting the scope of this internment measure. This measure is very important because it brings people under this statute indefinitely and we wanted to ensure that people are not deprived of therapy or at least of guidance. We are also pleased that the link was maintained with the legislation on the national register of legal experts. This is also an element in the expert reports and investigations. We believe that this is more manageable than introducing additional quality controls. Minister, I know that there will be work with a college of experts when it comes to research and observation. This is a specific assignment in the whole of this story of internment. However, a centre could only be able to reach it by 2020. However, we hope and expect that this will be made operational as soon as possible. We are talking about a legislation whose entry into force has been slightly delayed, partly due to the hearing. However, this should improve the feasibility. We hope that this will also be achieved on 1 October 2016, so that this can be included in the whole of the care for the internment. There's the FPC in Ghent and there's one coming in Antwerp. There is also the long-term treatment and care for people who are interned because treatment is not really obvious to them. Minister, I think it is important to keep an eye on the pulse when it comes to the practical operation of the FPCs. If necessary, any concerns can still be taken into account in order to ensure proper operation in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u141	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are already at potpourri III, as Mr Becq has just said. In fact, I would say that this is a draft law on a particular subject, in particular the law on internment. I would call the law that, because it is the main objective of this potpourri law. It is well known and not new that the problems of internment and of the interns in prison have been affecting us for decades. Minister, I am sure that several of your predecessors have already wanted to set things in motion with the best of intentions. Nevertheless, despite the efforts made by men and women on the ground to provide the necessary or available care with the resources available, the situation of the interned remains problematic today during the stay in prison. This has led to the international level having repeatedly hit on our country. Minister, Minister De Clerck has taken the initiative to launch the FPC in Ghent with regard to the creation of a number of FPCs. Afterwards, the initiative was continued by Ms Turtelboom. After that there was also the good cooperation with Minister De Block, who was just here and today's birthday. These efforts have led to effective preparations on the ground...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u142	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u143	Mrs. Onkelinx, you would be dishonored. If I am not mistaken and as far as I can remember, the construction of the FPC in Ghent has been an initiative of Minister De Clerck. You remind me that you were already at the root of the problem. I'd like to give you that recognition. I have also used the general term "different predecessors' of the current Minister of Justice. Mrs Onkelinx, it is to your credit that you took the necessary initiative at an early stage. I would therefore like to acknowledge that here, as you point this out to me. Unfortunately, however, I do not have as much experience in Parliament as you do, so I may have lost sight of you. I hope to have made it up to you in this way. However, you would like to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u144	Mr President, it has indeed been a long time since the question was raised as to how to extend the reception possibilities for people who could not "croup" in prison; the aim was to accommodate them in specially prepared internment institutions. We have worked on some sites such as those in Antwerp and Ghent. As Minister of Justice, and then as Minister of Health, I was very pleased, on an individual basis, to support the Ghent CPF, of course, with the support of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u145	Thank you for your clarification. As at the time, it is now an initiative of the entire government, probably drawn up and supported by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health. An FPC is an effective place where care and security of society need to find each other. The creation of FPCs and additional places, once the law is ready for application in practice, will allow interns to find a place in an environment where they are given the best care. That's how it's gotta be. Legislation must exist not only on paper, but can also be applied in practice. In addition to a number of technical improvements to the legislation, which has been evolving for some time now, the text before us contains a number of fundamental changes. The focus is on the quality and structure of the psychiatric research, the design of internment pathways and the internment itself, where the care aspect of the internment measure is central to all the components. This will, of course, greatly improve the legal position of the interned. The statements during the hearings that attention is being paid to a new specialisation, namely forensic psychiatry, were certainly reassuring. The discussions on the indication and the picture of illness, which we have often heard in the courts, are now over, as there is a clear translation into judicial terms. Minister, perhaps the most fundamental change is the introduction of a threshold. Only those who commit a fact that constitutes an impairment or a threat to physical or mental integrity will henceforth be eligible for internment. I understand that choice, and my group agrees with it, because it does not make much sense to subject persons who have committed minor crimes if we can name them as such, and are not guilty, to a serious measure such as internment. We are also grateful to you, Mr Minister, for failing to mention insanity in the course of the hearings and not returning to the old version of Article 71. We are therefore talking about persons with mental illness. Colleagues, the instruments for providing care to interns in the future are now finally available. Now it is up to us to apply them in practice. That is why my group will support the draft because it is the necessary way to implement it on the ground. There is one point, namely those who are not eligible for internment, who are below the threshold of internment, who have committed a crime and are not guilty. I understand, Minister, that you will indeed pay attention to this when rewriting the Criminal Code and criminal procedure law. It will, in any case, continue to deserve our attention. We will follow up on the issue in practice. I wish you and the services every success with the entry into force and implementation of the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u146	In my speech, Minister, I will not risk the first part of your potpourri legislation, which concerns the organisation of courts, magistrates and bailiffs, among other things. I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not a member of the Justice Commission. I will not venture to do so, but my fellow Members have assured me that this is all very well. I would like to talk about something close to my heart, in particular the implementing laws of the internment law. As Mrs Van Cauter said, that is the most substantial part of the present draft potpourriwet. Our country has been condemned countless times by international courts, because we have not given the interns sufficient rights since time immemorial. This is mainly about the lack of mental health care. It was and is often a question of a lack of resources. There's no point in throwing one stone at one or the other. It is a collective guilt that we must tackle together. We would like to congratulate the Minister on completing the internment law with this draft. We will continue to ensure that sufficient funds are entered in the budget, so that there really is an improvement in the situation of the interns in the field. If there are no means, there is nothing we can do. In any case, the FPC in Ghent and the FPC arriving in Antwerp show that we must remain vigilant in this regard and in relation to the problems of personnel management. The fact that part of it has been privatised has already caused a number of problems. Minister, you have undoubtedly read the report that has reached us from Flanders. It clearly states that there is a problem with the staffing framework in the FPC of Ghent. What bothers me most is that the report was not given to the mayor of Ghent, who is responsible for security outside and partly within the FPC and who had asked for it. All he got was a brief summary. He has sent a letter to the authorities concerned that he would appreciate it as mayor in order to see the report. The reason why the report has not been released is that there is still a tender for the FPC in Antwerp and the FPC operators of Ghent are also participating in the tender for that FPC. Mr Minister, that means placing the commercial interests of a particular company before the safety of the inhabitants of the centre and beyond. I assume you agree with me that this is not possible and that you will urge my fellow Members in Flanders to write a letter to the mayor that the report will be released, at least to the competent mayor. Hoping was in any case the opening last week of a department for the long-term care of interns at the University Psychiatric Centre of Bierbeek near Leuven. In this way, there will be a solution for not integrating into society interned, such as Mr Frank Van den Bleeken, who caused a great deal of turmoil six months ago when he asked for euthanasia, because he could not receive psychological care in our penitentiary institutions. You have also intervened in this regard. We scored very badly in the international media; that storm is now a happy one. Bierbeek also offers the solution. Our group submitted to the previous legislature Mr Anciaux in the Senate a bill on internment, which was almost unanimously adopted in the Senate and the Chamber and became law two years ago. Mrs Van Cauter has already referred to it. After that, however, a lot of implementing provisions had to be written into laws. That's exactly what's going on here. This concerns Articles 143 to 250 of the draft law adopted at second reading. With the internment chambers, more correctly defined in the law as chambers for the protection of society, which are set up by the criminal courts, the interns are now given a legal status like all other convicts. That legal status is anchored in a care pathway, with rights and.... let us be clear... also duties for the interns. The fact that internment policy focuses on those who have committed more serious crimes is a humane shift of emphasis. Crumble thieves should not disappear in a facility for a long time if they have serious mental problems. Other departments are responsible for this. Ladies and gentlemen, our group fully supports the draft law before us, which definitively reverses a black page in the discussion of the interns in our country. However, we remain very vigilant about the privatisation of care, including in those institutions. We will continue to act against this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although not all the provisions of the "pot-pourri III" project concern internment, this is still the main part. He is also the one who urges us to oppose the project. Indeed, there are currently major problems in the way in which interned persons are treated. There is a need for deep reflection on the fate of people who suffer from mental illness and who commit crimes. However, as in "pot-pourri II", it is not by changing some procedural provisions in criminal law that a serious solution will be found. While it is true that some provisions are an improvement in the current situation, the law as a whole is not a solution. Like the Human Rights League, the PTB believes that the treatment of interned convicts should not lead to a return to the penal system. It is inconsistent to treat interned convicts primarily as convicts and incidentally as internees. It would therefore be necessary to take full care of the internees by the civil system, psychiatry. If the government is concerned that some convicted persons may simulate a mental disorder, then it will be necessary to strengthen the system for assessing the state of health and not aggravate the living conditions of convicted persons who have become ill. That is why we cannot support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u148	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Act of 5 May 2014 on the internment of persons has made it possible to move forward in the development of a legal status for internees, which was essential in the light of the situation of internees, their strong representation in our prisons, which so far do not provide adequate care. However, the imperfections that this legislation contained mortgaged the realization of this statute, which is why my group supports this bill. The more fundamental corrections made to the exercise of the functions of magistrate and assessor in the courts of enforcement of sentences, to the organization of service or to the register of authentic acts are also to be welcomed, since these amendments aim at rationalisation and modernisation of the justice system, without affecting the rights of the defence. This must be our first concern with the analysis of bills as large as this one. We are therefore reassured that these rights have not been sacrificed for the sake of judicial profitability, unlike the first two "pots-porris". This bill will be followed by the "pot-pourri IV" on prisons, and we look forward, given the promise contained in the justice plan, to make the law on the legal status of prisoners fully applicable and implemented. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that the adaptation of the regulation proposed here will succeed in achieving its objective of improving the situation of internees only if the "pot-pourri IV" implements the care component of the law in principle. Despite its good intentions, this bill suffered, in its original version, from some inconsistencies that were fortunately corrected at first and second reading. Thus, while the draft required electronic service in criminal matters and not in civil matters, the majority finally made the choice of common sense. It has taken into account the added value of the displacement of the judicial officer on the spot in criminal matters, and it has left to the judicial officer the choice of the form that the meaning will take, both in criminal matters and in civil matters. This change was essential in order to preserve the right of litigants to a full understanding of the criminal requirements, and to avoid a greater divide between the judicial system and the population. The reform of the internment system is also largely positive, limiting internment to the most serious facts, and allowing for a regular review of the internment file by the Social Welfare Chamber. With regard to the internment of convicted persons, the model proposed here aims to return to the prison model by providing guarantees such as the maintenance of the mandatory psychiatric expertise, and the introduction of a possibility of appeal of the decision to intern the Social Welfare Chamber before the Correctional Chamber before the Court of Appeal. I welcome this choice, although it only partially responds to the many condemnations of our country by the European Court of Human Rights, and it does not go as far as my party has always advocated. In fact, he did not opt for the immediate transport of accused persons to an appropriate care facility, as soon as the expert report was filed concluding that an internment measure had been taken. I would like to make it clear that internment should not be regarded as a sanction but as a measure of security and protection. Furthermore, it cannot be decided solely because the accompanying arrangements are generally insufficient. Therefore, I call on you, minister, ladies and gentlemen, to take advantage of this bill to seize the opportunity to invest more in preventive health care. This approach seems to me to be preferable to the one which is, for example, postponing the establishment of the Clinical Observing Centre by 2020, which we regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u149	Mr President, I will be very brief as most of the questions have already been asked in committee and have already received an answer. However, I would like to make it clear that the preliminary draft Criminal Code, which was presented yesterday in committee, fills a number of gaps that have been identified by some members. I am thinking in particular of the one which Mr Brotcorn has addressed and which refers to illegals. It is clear that prisoners and prisoners will be able to receive specific treatment at any time and that they will be entitled to appropriate care. On the other hand, internment is not a penalty, but for those who do not fall within the scope of the threshold, it will always be possible to impose a penalty on them as a specific treatment. I note that Mrs Temmerman is no longer here, but I think it is important to say the following for the report. The report by the Flemish Health Inspectorate, which Mr Termont would like to receive, is the subject of passive disclosure of governance. This means that Mr Termont will receive the report from the Flemish administration if he asks for it. As regards Mrs Özen's question as to whether there will be enough institutions for internees in Wallonia, the Masterplan III draft provides for at least two new institutions for internees. Long-stay Marronniers has already been opened and we are planning two new institutions in Wallonia in the near future. So far, Mr President, the answers to the questions relating to this draft, for which I had the honour of presenting it to Parliament together with Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u150	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u151	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1590/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1590/11) The inscription in French was changed by the committee to "" draft law on internment and various provisions in the field of justice [["]] The title in French has been amended by the commission in draft law on internment and various provisions in the field of justice". The draft law has 261 articles. The bill has 261 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u152	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u153	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u154	Mr President, if my colleague Mrs Onkelinx sees no inconvenience, I shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u155	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief. I simply wanted to point out a certain inconsistency on the part of the government by submitting this transposition text. Indeed, as my colleagues in committee have said, if we join the spirit and the letter of the draft, there is still a small concern. We join the letter, because this project strengthens cooperation between States and prerogatives to better protect works of art considered as national treasures. But as for the spirit, the project is part of the fight against the international traffic in works of art, a traffic that is not annoyed, since, according to UNESCO, it represents between 3.4 and 6.3 billion euros per year in the world. Beyond the cultural looting it represents, this trafficking fuels armed conflicts around the world. Moreover, the Syrian conflict does not escape that reality. On the contrary, the terrorist organization Daesh is said to have made it one of its main financial sources. All experts also recognize that the looted works of Palmyra or Aleppo land in the West, particularly in Belgium. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand our dismay when, between the first and second reading of the draft in committee, we have learned that the government is removing the Art and Antiquities cell from the judicial police and that, from now on, the tasks of this cell will be dealt with at the local level. Let's not go by four paths! It is an aberration when we know the need for international centralisation and cooperation to combat this criminal activity, a fact that our neighbours have understood well, since France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have all strengthened their police and judicial departments to combat illicit trafficking in works of art. With the abolition of this centralized unit, Belgium, which is unfortunately already too well known to be a hub of illegal traffic in works of art, is becoming more and more open on the international stage. We will no longer be able to respond to the specific requests of Interpol, foreign customs and other international interlocutors. However, my group is constantly repeating that the fight against all crimes requires, first and foremost, sufficient resources, whether it be terrorism or art trafficking. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand how inconsistent the government is in submitting this bill to us at the very moment when it decides to deprive itself of the human means for its execution. It is therefore with certain bitterness that we are about to vote in favour of this project which, we fear, will find it difficult to have real effects if this Art and Antiquities cell of the judicial police is not restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u156	Mr President, in support of my colleague Mrs Grovonius' remarks, I would like to say that I am very disappointed and disturbed at the idea that the federal government is in the process of avoiding an instrument such as its Art and Antiquities cell at the very moment when the fight against terrorism is being intensified. This is a totally paradoxical message that the federal government is sending. All Governments close to Belgium are strengthening their capacity to combat the financing of terrorism. That's what this is about. I really ask the government to reconsider its decision to weaken the Federal Judicial Police in this area. More than a bad signal, this will prevent us from tracking down certain sources of terrorist financing, even though we know that Brussels is an important place in the field of archaeological evidence, and that there are indeed risks in Brussels and Belgium with regard to the trafficking of archaeological material from the Middle East, in particular Syria and Iraq. We are preventing us from fighting this traffic. I think this is really a very bad decision of the federal government and I ask the government to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u157	Mr President, I take note of the very valid remarks made by the two colleagues who have just spoken. It is true that, in the context of the optimisation of the police, some central services have been decentralized. As I have not prepared an answer to this question, if you agree, I suggest that you go back to it as part of an oral question in committee, at the time you choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u158	It's dropped off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u159	That's great!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u160	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u161	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1645/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1645/6) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u163	The rapporteur is Ms Ben Hamou. She referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u164	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u165	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments on the method first. First of all, as I have already said in committee, the government is asking for urgency on two texts before us today. However, they were tabled in Parliament on 18 and 21 March when the opinions of the Council of State were delivered on 13 January. We can therefore ask ourselves what justifies the urgency. Parliament must be able to work calmly and should not be used as an adjustment variable in the government's legislative timetable. On the other hand, it is learned that an amendment to persons who would attempt to assist a person to enter the territory illegally is under discussion. Why have these provisions not been attached to those dealt with in plenary today? That is, of course, a question that we can ask ourselves. Having said that, I come to my group's position on the bill to amend it. The PS Group considers it essential that the processing of each applicant's files be carried out under the best possible conditions. I am thinking here of the administration, but also of the applicants as such. We also believe that file review should take place within a reasonable period of time in order to stabilize each individual's situation as quickly as possible. We understand that the administration is in a difficult situation at the time of an increase in the number of requests, especially when the government's budgetary choices put pressure on the staff of all jurisdictions. However, it appears that the European Directive on which the text under review is based provides for a maximum period of nine months when the circumstances make a processing period more difficult, if not impossible. We therefore find it regrettable that nine months should be the rule, regardless of the external circumstances. Secondly, there is the possibility of an amendment proposing to introduce a mechanism that takes account of the need for a longer period of time in the event of a high volume of applications, but without affecting the current six-month period. This was discussed in committee. I come back today with this proposal. We may consider a mechanism whereby the CGRA would publish monthly averages of applications received over the past six months. Each month, the number of applications received in the past month would be compared to this average. If the application is found to exceed 25%, it could be considered to be in an exceptional period during which new applications received could be processed not within six months, but nine months. This average mechanism also allows the government not to exempt from its obligations the means to be made available to the administration for the performance of its tasks, since the increase that would be sustained over time would thus raise the average to a threshold at which the nine-month period would no longer be justified. It would then be found that the standard would have changed and that additional means should be found to process the files within the normal six-month time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u166	Mr President, we have tabled an amendment because a UNHCR letter has been circulated to all political groups. This letter is dated 12 April, that is, on the day of the examination of this draft in committee. This UNHCR letter calls for an exception, i.e. not to increase the processing time to nine months but to six months for all persons enjoying international protection. He invoked a number of arguments, including the possible incompatibility of this bill with a European directive. The amendment before you today is intended to satisfy the request that has been made by UNHCR, a serious international organization that can be relied upon to try to find mitigation in the way in which you deal with family reunification. I hope that this amendment from the cdH Group will receive your approval, since everyone has been asked in the same way on this dossier. In the light of international conventions, it seems important that we be able to comply with this request and maintain a period of six months, which is already horribly long. We propose that the House be able to adopt the amendment that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u167	Mr President, the importance of this draft law is very great, although it is a minor change. It is a very good thing because it gives the Foreign Affairs Office the opportunity to keep the quality of the research as high as in times when the influx is lower, despite the still high influx of candidate refugees who subsequently apply for family reunification. The application for family reunification of recognised refugees and people with another residence permit should thus not be approved on autopilot because of an insufficient time limit for examination. It has certainly been the intention of the Secretary of State not to cut back on qualitative assessment. In committee and just now it was a point of criticism that there is no problem at the moment. Why then would the deadline be extended? Now, governor cöjest prévoir, they say in beautiful Dutch. It is up to our directors to anticipate, so that the administration does not get into any trouble at some point. We all know what direction a draft should take and I think that the Secretary of State has been very forward-looking by coming to the Chamber on time with this draft. There was a lot of discussion in committee about the proportionality of the right to family life and whether or not to exceed the reasonable time limit for treatment. It is in all our interests, especially in times of terror threat, and also in our bloody duty, to examine closely the applications for family reunification. We need to know who is applying and who he is being applied for. When considering the right to safety, on the one hand, and the right to family life, on the other, this measure should not create disproportionateness. Well, proportionality has still been maintained. That is why we in the committee have indicated what we are repeating now, namely that we fully support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today our Assembly is called upon to vote in favour of a measure to increase the deadline for processing family reunification cases for third-country nationals by three months. This period will now be increased from a maximum of six to nine months, with the possibility, in exceptional cases and depending on the complexity of the files, of an extension of two times three months. We all know that legal immigration to Belgium is primarily a family immigration, since structurally, every year, almost 50% of the visas issued are family reunification visas. In addition, our country faced a substantial increase in the number of asylum-seekers in 2015. We received 35,476 files, for a total of 44,760 in 2015. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, my figures are correct. The increase in numbers compared to 2014 is illuminating, since in 2014 we had 17,213 requests for a total of 22,710 people. In addition, the rate of recognition of refugee status is very high, about 60 per cent. These are usually isolated men, who may apply for family reunification for some of them. The increase in asylum applications will ipso facto result in an increase in the number of applications for family reunification. The figures given in committee by the Secretary of State speak for themselves. In 2015, we had a total of 38,214 applications for family reunification; 3,235 applications were from refugees and 757 from beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. In 2015, 3,042 positive decisions were taken in favour of refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in the context of family reunification, representing 23 per cent of all positive decisions on family reunification. For the first quarter of 2016, the total number of family reunification applications is 9,431. We have already received 1,023 applications for family reunification from refugees, and 226 applications from beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. First, since the conditions that recognized refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection must meet are more flexible - for example, without income criteria - the percentage of positive decisions is much higher. Secondly, the asylum crisis reached its peak from July-August 2015. This means that decisions on family reunification of refugee candidates are only beginning to fall. This year will be crucial for the processing of family reunification applications. The figures for the first quarter thus show a significant increase in the number of applications: 1,023 applications for this period compared to 3,235 for the whole of 2015. In the case of persons granted subsidiary protection, in the last year, 757 applications had been submitted, while in the first quarter of 2016 alone, 226 applications had been submitted. Third, at present, the processing time for family reunification cases is six months. Beyond that, the decision is automatically positive. Clearly, without a response from the administration after six months, the file is considered accepted. Given the influx of asylum seekers in recent months, and given the particularly high workload, it is logical and desirable to increase this deadline by three months. Extensions are possible if the file is complex. Although the ambition, as several colleagues have said, is to return as soon as possible to the six-month deadline, it is not always possible to respect it. We must not forget that a decision is automatically positive if it is exceeded. Officials of the Office of Foreigners must therefore be given sufficient time to be able to properly and qualitatively examine each application. Conversely, the government has committed to returning to a six-month period when the workload is lower. The government has been very clear: the measure is not intended to unnecessarily extend the processing time but simply to manage the influx and allow a quality review for each case. The draft also complies, as the Council of State has pointed out, with the European Directive 2003/86 on the family reunification of third-country nationals, which allows the processing of cases to be extended to nine months and extends this period if the case is complex. The majority government therefore fully and fully respects European law and its principles. In conclusion, there is no question of the balance between humanism and firmness, and we must say so forcefully. There is also no challenge to family reunification rules that do not change. The special status of refugees and persons receiving subsidiary protection in the area of family reunification is not affected, including the fact that they must not prove stable income conditions, adequate housing or health insurance in the first year following recognition of their status. It is just a measure of common sense, of good governance, allowing the Office of Foreigners to deal with the influx of cases and to continue to deal with them qualitatively. That is why the MR Group will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u169	Mr President, I believe that the most important thing was said in committee. I would like to underline one thing. When we adopted the law on family reunification in Parliament in 2011, we included a number of strings. After all, we were of the opinion that anyone who wants to open the right to family reunification to marry or live with a partner also has a number of obligations. I am thinking of a minimum income, housing and so on. We also included in the then legislative proposal that we would put an end to the uncertainty. Before the 2011 law, it was unclear for people who applied for family reunification how long their procedure would last. Sometimes it took a few months, but it might as well take a year or longer. We have made it very clear in that law that a normal dossier should not last longer than six months. For an extremely complex dossier, this period may be extended by three months and possibly three months. In this respect, we have provided legal certainty for those who wish to pursue family reunification. As Mr Flahaux has just said, there are many of them. On an annual basis, it is about 50,000 people. The largest group concerns EU nationals, but in any case it remains a huge group. I also understand that, with the refugee crisis in the period from September to December 2015, when there was an enormous number of asylum applications, DVZ is asking to extend the period for examining a family reunification application. We can understand this in itself, provided that it is of a temporary nature. That is also agreed within the government. At present, there is a falling inflow. However, it is important to take account of the fact that family reunification does not follow until it has been recognised. The case of people who entered September last year can be dealt with by some in a few months. However, due to the influx, most people only get a decision after about a year. We know that 40% of them will be recognised. It is only after people are recognised that they may apply for family reunification. Then they'll have to start the procedure. So let us be very correct with each other. We know that many refugees who entered the country last year have not yet started their family reunification because they have not yet received an answer. So the great influx at DVZ in the area of family reunification will come. As long as it is necessary, it is not a problem for us to extend the deadline to nine months. However, we would like to stress that this measure is of a temporary nature and that, as agreed in the government, we will ask for the measure to be reduced to the six-month period previously in force as soon as family reunifications and applications for it fall again as a result of the refugee crisis. I wanted to make that point again. For us, a word is a word in the government. We trust that the agreement made in the government will also be implemented. We will therefore not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u170	Mrs. De Coninck, would you like to interrupt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u171	Mr President, I have already indicated in committee that the Secretary of State usually sets the bar high. He has argued for years that we should deal quickly with dossiers, that we should have a qualitative and efficient government and that legal certainty should be given to the applicants concerned. I note that in many cases the argument of legal certainty is put forward. In the first crisis that is emerging, a crisis of a very temporary nature, if I may believe the reports of the last few days, the majority is already trying to make significant changes to the legislation. Mrs Lanjri, you point out that the measure is only temporary and that it will then be changed again, when the situation is no longer pressing and requests no longer come in. In that case, the majority could have decided perfectly to make a temporary change. For that, the legislation had not to be changed. I am convinced that this will never be reduced. In doing so, we are now falling on our knees for a better, more efficient, faster government, which was, however, the task that it had given itself. We shall therefore vote against this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u172	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a new element to this debate. This bill is not in itself innocent. What's it about? The government wants to extend the treatment period for family reunification applications from six months to nine months. Why? I believe that the government's main motivation is to avoid that if the application for family reunification cannot be dealt with by the end of the period, it would automatically be granted. She wants to extend the time she gives herself to look at these requests. So that's not innocent. The people who are eligible for family reunification may find themselves in a precarious, vulnerable situation in another country or in a situation where they are threatened. It is, of course, in the interests of those people and their families that the application should be dealt with quickly so that they can quickly find themselves in a safe situation. I have received a document from the UN Refugee Organisation which was distributed during or just after the discussion in committee. The document has not been discussed. I have looked at the report very carefully. If I may, I would like to present to you the comments of the United Nations Refugee Organization. Firstly, the remark is made that, contrary to the past apparently, the UN refugee organisation is no longer involved by the current government in legislative initiatives which concern it or which concern the refugee problem in general. That's a bit of a shame, isn't it? Apparently, the previous government had the practice of involving the UN refugee organisation in legislative work. Now the refugee organisation states in black that the current government does not. At least, before the bill we're discussing, that didn't happen. Mr Secretary of State, my first question to you is whether that is true and whether you want to change that, so that this organisation is approached at a rather early stage. More fundamentally, the UN Refugee Organisation makes a number of comments focusing on the impact of this bill on people entitled to international protection, such as recognised refugees and people with subsidiary status. The UN Refugee Organisation says that extending the treatment period to nine months may have the unintended effect that people in third countries, on their own strength and at the risk of their own lives, are still trying to get to Belgium, because they can rely less easily on the legal path of family reunification. That seems to me to be an important risk and actually a perverse, unintentional and undesirable effect of this bill. Allow me to make a general comment on family reunification, which I hope we can agree on. The abuse must come out, but we are in favour of the integration of refugees. Well, family reunification is not only an internationally recognised right, but also, from a very pragmatic point of view, helps to integrate people. After all, family reunification increases the well-being of the people in question and it helps those involved to integrate, to find a job and to get to work, all of which we want. This is an element that we want to bear in mind clearly in the debate on family reunification, because we share the same objective. Moreover, in the current legislation, the Foreign Affairs Office already has the opportunity to postpone the moment of the decision, twice with a period of three months. If the initial period is now extended from six to nine months, with two further extensions of three months, we will be at a maximum of fifteen months, which is quite long. That is, as I said earlier, certainly a long time for people in a precarious vulnerable situation, for example in war zones. That is why the UN Refugee Organisation is asking to make an exception for that particular group of people, which is quite small compared to the total number of applications for family reunification. I will conclude with the three recommendations made by the UN Refugee Organisation in its document. I would like a response from you to that. A first recommendation and question is logical, in fact, that the capacity of the administration should be increased to allow applications for family reunification to be dealt with within the current six-month period. Secondly, they are asking you for a commitment that looks a bit like the confidence that Mrs Lanjri has just spoken about, that you will certainly do everything you can to deal with the requests as quickly as possible. There will now be a legislative amendment, in which the maximum period will be nine months. The UN Refugee Organisation is actually asking you to make every effort to move to shorter treatment periods in as many cases as possible. Allow me to state my agreement to what Monica De Coninck just said. Now there's a high influx, and it certainly was last year. In 2016 we will see the impact on the applications for family reunification. That's right. We're definitely going to a peak. Then why don't you introduce a temporary change? In this case, it is an amendment, which by definition is not temporary. So everything actually depends on your goodwill or on the agreement that might exist within the government to stop using the nine-month treatment period by the end of 2016 and to return to shorter and more efficient six-month procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u173	Mr De Vriendt, I would like to remind you once again that words also have their interest. You know that. After all, last week we had a whole debate on words. If this legislation refers to the extension of the treatment period from a maximum of six months to a maximum of nine months, then the word "maximum' has its interest. That does not mean that the deadline is by definition nine months. It is really the intention, as you ask, and I agree with you, to do so as soon as possible. You are asking for an exception for people who are in war zones or in a precarious situation. I fully understand that, but there is really no need for an exception to the law. This is perfectly possible within the current legislation. What is more, at the moment that is also Merkel's policy. I hope that the Secretary of State will follow her in this and make a distinction for family reunification. For people who come from safe countries, it may take a little longer, but for those who are at risk of war to come or who have to sail dangerously by boat, Germany provides for a priority treatment of these dossiers. That's something DVZ can do anyway. It is therefore up to DVZ to decide whether this is a priority dossier of vulnerable groups and to deal with it as soon as possible. For others, a slightly longer treatment period may be less of a problem because they are in a safe environment. You should not include in the legislation which countries are involved, because this list may also change at any time. It is therefore important, in my view, to give this power of appreciation to DVZ, but to indicate that certain groups are effectively committed to rapid family reunification, for example when women and children are left behind in conflict zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u174	I fully agree with you, ma'am, but did you get that commitment from the Secretary of State? I understand that there is a commitment to try to go faster than those nine months, but have you received the State Secretary's commitment that he, especially for that target group of people living in war zones and vulnerable situations, will in practice make more effort to achieve faster treatment times than average? Did you get that promise?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u175	In any case, the government is committed to doing so as soon as possible. You are now raising this point. You didn't put that up for that. I'm just saying there's a possibility. I assume that the Secretary of State will soon confirm that this possibility always exists and that DVZ has no intention of keeping people in conflict zones. That is something we must do in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u176	There is a real possibility to favour those vulnerable people, so that they can be dealt with more quickly. I would, however, like to put this question clearly to the Secretary of State, in the hope that he will give a clear answer in order to get that commitment, that commitment, clearly from him. Apart from the substantive agreement between us, I think that a legislative amendment gives more margin. The Secretary of State and the DVZ don't have to stick to that. Even if the commitment is now being made, an element can be invoked within three months to withdraw it. This new law gives too much margin to the government to extend those treatment periods to nine months, without taking into account that precarious target group. We can get the commitment now, but situations can always change in politics, as you know. There is no firm, committed guarantee that a policy focusing on fast deadlines, six months instead of nine months and specifically targeting that target group of war refugees and people in precarious situations, is the line that will be maintained until the end of the reigning period. That gives too much margin to the government. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u177	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government justifies this measure by citing an increase in the number of asylum applications in recent months, which would also imply an increase in the number of visa applications on the basis of family reunification. I note, first of all, that no figures, no statistics are presented to justify this change. Is there any real evidence of an increase in the number of asylum applications? Are the workers of the Foreign Office complaining, for example, about this too short period of time? Is it not a waste of time for Parliament and the Council of State when it is not known whether this increase is proven?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u178	Mr President, I am not used to defending the Secretary of State, but I would like to point out to you, Mr Van Hees, that these points have already been discussed in committee. And if you had read the report, you would have noticed that the Secretary of State gave very clear figures on the increase in the number of asylum applications. I do not agree with what the Secretary of State proposes. Mr. De Vriendt has expressed our point of view. But it is wrong to claim that the figures were not given. As has been said on many occasions, we do not have the same concepts in terms of asylum policy. I repeat that what you have just said, Mr Van Hees, is totally wrong. I therefore invite you to read the reports or to attend our committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u179	Mr. President, if Mr. Van Hees had been attentive when I made my presentation, he would have heard the figures I quoted, which are exactly the same as those given by the Secretary of State. It is regrettable that you did not pay attention, Mr Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u180	Minister, I note this beautiful unit between Ecolo and the MR. I note this convergence. I think that, politically, we will have to analyse it, interpret it. It's certainly interesting. Personally, I believe that opposition work is also a certain vision of political unity. Our Government and the European Union have always explained that they want to help refugees, but want to stop trafficking in human beings and criminal networks of smugglers. Family reunification is one of the best tools to end these networks. Very often, these are requests for reunification from family members of a recognized refugee in Belgium. Instead of hurting these people, forcing them to use criminals, the government should do everything possible to help them as quickly as possible, as they also flee from war situations and therefore need protection. Therefore, this measure is questionable. Its aim is exclusively to make communication strength and to make Belgium less "attractive" to the detriment of our responsibility and respect for human rights for refugees who are also fleeing conflicts in which our governments have a huge responsibility. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the many speeches. In committee, too, we were able to discuss it properly and on the substance. Mr Van Hees, you should not talk about a romance between Ecolo and the government, or between Ecolo and the N-VA. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, However, I can tell you that these figures are indeed concerned. I think they've been e-mailed extra today. So it would be intellectual honesty, should you at least... maybe you haven't seen it, of course you can. Several comments were made, including with regard to the extension of the six-month period to nine months. In this context, I will not say much, because it has been discussed in committee for a very long time, but I would like to stress that we are not alone in this area in Europe. A number of other European countries, such as the Netherlands, are doing exactly the same. And that is necessary, because the number of applications for visas issued in the context of family reunification for refugees or for subsidiary protected persons alone was 1 386 in 2014 and 3 042 in 2015, and this year is far beyond that. I think that number will end well over five thousand. This year, of course, most of the dossiers will be dealt with. The measure is therefore certainly necessary, but I can tell you that it is also, for my part, a temporary matter. I believe that the six-month deadline, as agreed in the framework of the more stringent law on family reunification of 2011, is a correct one. That deadline is therefore now temporarily extended to nine months. As regards what Mr Kir has said, I believe that what is proposed by the amendment is not technically possible for the administration. But I support the idea that this should be temporary for the duration of the crisis. After that, we'll have to come back to six months, that's clear. I have already said it in committee, and I would like to repeat explicitly here that the intention is to reduce the deadline. In response to the comments on staff, there is sufficient staff at the service dealing with family reunification applications. You can say that with more staff the six-month period could be maintained. However, because of the asylum crisis, my department has already received a lot of extra staff, for which I am grateful, but I should not exaggerate. The current situation is a good balance, namely that the six-month period, or nine months after the vote, will be a maximum period after publication in the Belgian Official Journal. I met with the administration this week to see what practical arrangements we can make to prevent the nine-month deadline becoming a standard. I wouldn't want that. Mr De Vriendt, you asked me whether I would respond to UNHCR's questions. I would like to reiterate, also for the report, that it is important to know that the favourable conditions for family reunification for refugees and subsidiary protection are not affected, namely the conditions of exemption for housing, health insurance and income, but also the fact that they must not go through any waiting period. So that's not gonna get touched. You are asking me whether I cannot see for that most vulnerable group whether the period can be reduced. I'll discuss with my administration whether that's possible. I have absolutely no problem with that in itself. It is also a logical question, which was not raised in committee, because the letter at issue crossed the committee work. In itself, I do not see any difficulty in trying to get my administration to take care of those applications for family reunification as a priority. I don't have a problem with that. I'll look into the matter. You can question me about this within a few weeks and I will be able to give you the outcome of those discussions. I cannot guarantee anything now, but I will discuss the matter with Mr Roosemont and with my administration. I think it's been said mostly. Mrs Matz, I wish you good luck. You were not present on the committee because of circumstances. In any case, I wish you a speedy recovery. I believe that increasing the deadline to nine months is a temporary measure and can be justified in that sense. This is not just how we act in this respect. The vast majority of European countries have already done so. I also sent the figures from the study on the other countries to the committee. What the government is proposing is a fair compromise. This is a reasonable proposal so that our administration can handle every application properly. In the end, that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u182	Are there any fellow Members who wish to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u183	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your commitment to discuss the matter with the administration and to move towards shorter treatment periods for applications for family reunification submitted by recognised refugees or otherwise protected, people who are, by definition, in a vulnerable situation. I'll question you about that in a couple of weeks. So you make some commitments, for example on the temporary nature of the measure, which you want to evaluate at the end of the year. You are also committed to work as quickly as possible and to pay sufficient attention to recognised refugees, otherwise protected and war refugees. Then why is this change of law necessary without you registering those guarantees? After all, there are a number of amendments, not from our group but from other groups, which register such safety valves. We can, of course, discuss the technicality of these amendments, but it must be possible to include such matters in a law. However, that did not happen. You say that you are making a number of commitments and that we must do so. That's better than nothing, but the change in the law really goes too far for us. For the same reason, the situation or your opinion is changing, for some objective reasons, and then we are as far away as we are today. One question to which you have not yet answered is the following. The UN refugee organisation was no longer involved by the government in this bill. That almost doesn't happen anymore, but that was the case under the previous government. UNHCR has the expertise on this issue, she has many lawyers, she has a lot of experience and, of course, it has a certain angle of view, especially that of international law, which we all support. What could be against involving the UN Refugee Organisation in your legislative initiatives in this context, a question of good practice? Would you like to take their comments to heart?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u184	Mr De Vriendt, I have very good contacts with UNHCR. UNHCR people come to the cabinet at regular intervals. Just a month ago, I received a number of high-level representatives. I forgot their names, but I can let you know. Together we will talk about refugee policy and how they see it. If you say that we must involve UNHCR in every draft bill before the draft goes to the government and Parliament, then it is also my choice not to do so. However, I do involve them and they know perfectly what we are doing. For example, there are good contacts on the transposition of the Asylum Procedure Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u185	The UN Refugee Organisation refers to page 2 of the note on the question of being involved in the drafting of this bill before it is presented to Parliament. I have nothing against this happening. If the government informs itself before a legislative initiative is taken, why not? Especially when it comes to the UN refugee organisation. Then we can also discuss with Parliament their input openly. I would ask you to consider that question. Apparently, the practice of the previous government was different. I think that, at least in that respect, the practice of the previous government was better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u186	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u187	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1726/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1726/4) The title was amended by the Committee in draft legislation amending Articles 10b and 12a of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals." The title has been amended by the committee into a bill amending articles 10ter and 12bis of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and removal of aliens. The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u188	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u189	Held: the vote on the amendments and on Articles 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u190	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u191	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u192	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u193	Mr President, I refer to the written report. However, I would like to mention a document containing errata which has been distributed. I understand that it is necessary to mention this explicitly here. I hope that this can be reconciled with my reference to the written report. There was a mistake in implementing an amendment tabled at the committee meeting. I refer to document No. 1730/006.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u194	We take note of that. I take it there are no objections. Mrs Smeyers, would you also like to take the floor in the general discussion of this draft?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u195	I'd love to. The previous draft law is important, but this is at least as important. It's also a little thicker. It contains five major changes, one a little bit more legal-technical than the other. The great importance of this draft law is that we should identify ourselves with about 85% of European countries in terms of refugee recognition. We are convinced that the other countries will follow. Until now, Belgium has been one of the few countries in which refugee recognition brought with it an unlimited right of residence. This is now limited to five years, by analogy with the rule already in force in the current legal system for subsidiary protection, since the application for asylum has been lodged. This is the most important amendment contained in the draft law. The Secretary of State had already announced them in his plan to achieve a fairer and more coherent asylum and migration system. I think it goes without saying that no one assumes that recognition as a refugee entails an unlimited stay. In our legal system, in our country, that was the case. It goes without saying and it is the logic itself that one looks at the situation in the country of origin. Those five years are also renewable. It is important to stress, as the Secretary of State stated in committee, that an evaluation of that limited right of residence should not only take into account the overall situation in the country of origin, but will also take into account the personal situation of the recognised refugee. Take, for example, a candidate refugee who is granted protection status and recognised as a refugee because of his sexual orientation and who can be prosecuted on the basis of that orientation in the country of origin. If, after five years, it appears that this country continues to adopt such an attitude towards that sexual orientation, it goes without saying that the Secretary of State will retain that recognition and extend the right of residence. This is an important nuance which must also be given, in addition to the general principle that this draft law seeks to introduce. Our group will fully support this very good and important amendment. It is one of the many steps taken in implementing the commitment contained in the government agreement and implemented through Secretary of State Francken, namely a stricter and more humane migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u196	Mr President, I would like to make two points. Firstly, we are going to have an evaluation to be carried out by the Commissioner-General. That is a new step, a new administrative investigation, a new administrative burden. We have just discussed a bill that has been tabled because the burden on the Foreign Office is too high, because there is a shortage of staff and we need to give them more time. Now, in fact, you are doing the opposite with the Commissioner-General. You are entering an extra heavy evaluation, so that will take them time. That's a remark. Secondly, I have a question for you, Mrs Smeyers. It is a counter-argument for what the government wants to do here, a counter-argument to which we have not yet received an answer: does this measure promote the integration of recognised refugees? If a recognised refugee arrives in that first five years for a job or training and the employer knows that the person concerned has only a temporary status, does the employer then tend to invest in that person, to give him a job or training? That is a question I would like to put to you. It is a very pragmatic, practical question and I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u197	Mr President, I would just like to say to Mr De Vriendt that this has actually been discussed in committee and is included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u198	All right, I assume Mr De Vriendt takes note of that. I give the floor to Mr Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u199	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u200	Mrs Smeyers, if you want to answer, you will ask for the floor and you will have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u201	Mr President, it is very kind of Mrs De Coninck to say that this was indeed discussed in committee. However, I do not want to give the impression that I do not want to answer Mr De Vriendt's questions. Mr De Vriendt, on the first point, compare apples with pears. The first draft law concerns the possibility for the Foreign Affairs Office to carry out an adequate and proper screening of people who apply to come to Belgium and who could obtain a residence permit on the basis of family reunification. The draft law we are discussing is about extending the right of residence. What has so far been unlimited is limited, from five to ten years; this evaluation must indeed be carried out. In my opinion, therefore, it is about a very different type of recognition. As the Secretary of State has said, the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless recently acquired a staffing capacity of 173 full-time equivalents. That may not be the most appropriate argument, but it does argue that the Commissioner does have the opportunity to carry out that evaluation. I believe that we owe it to ourselves to identify with this, and I come to your next question: what is 85% of all European countries doing? It is also the logic itself to give protection as long as it is necessary, as long as the situation in the home country so requires or, in certain cases, as long as the personal situation so requires. This is a consequence of the principle enshrined in the Geneva Convention itself. Finally, we will now follow the logic of the Geneva Convention, while so far we have done the opposite as one of the few European countries, by using a temporary situation in a country of origin to give a person a lifelong and unlimited right of residence, which may not have been a proportionate result. Of course, fortunately, there will be an evaluation after those five years in order to allow for a possible extension. That has been explained enough in committee. I believe that your question whether or not this promotes integration is irrelevant and that the integration of things other than the temporary or temporary right of residence should be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u202	Mrs De Coninck, I do not know if that is an answer to the question. I don't know if you're satisfied with that, but we certainly don't. Of course, that's not an answer. Mrs Smeyers, I am confronting you with a very plausible situation in which an employer will hesitate to give a job to someone with a temporary status and you will not answer. I therefore understand that it is not a problem to give additional staff to the Commissioner-General for this kind of decision, but that it is not possible to give additional staff to DVZ, who has to decide on the family reunification of people in a precarious situation or perhaps even in a war zone. It is about two different things, but it is about an investment and a staff movement that can be done for one and apparently not for the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u203	Can we close the discussion then?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u204	With all due respect to Mr Kir, who has to wait to begin his speech, it is portrayed as if we were to stop the family reunification of the recognised refugees. That examination period shall then be extended by three months. The Secretary of State has expressly stated that it is not the intention to extend all these files by three months and bring them to nine months. I find it really unheard of that these two things, because they are on the agenda together, are being compared. There's no comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u205	Mr President, I would like to refer to the record of the debates in committee and to summarize my thoughts, and the thought of the Socialist Group, with the following idea. We follow Mr. Franken in what he says. He says that he will come, at some point, with a Code bringing together the entire Aliens Act, with all the amendments. But here, we do not understand you, since you come every two months with new amendments to the law. It's complicated for the plaintiffs, it's complicated for the lawyers, it's complicated for the administration. Here, you are in full contradiction between the two amendments to the law. In the first one, you explain the administrative workload, and in this one you create it yourself. My group cannot follow you in your proposed amendment, because it is impossible for the administration to meet the challenge you are addressing. For all these reasons, but also for the integration problem that you are putting to the applicants, my group will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u206	Mr President, this is an important project. Today we are voting on the introduction of a first five-year residence permit for the political refugee instead of the immediate issuance of an unlimited residence permit. We will also vote for the establishment of a legal basis that will allow the government to take a measure of removal from the territory following the withdrawal or revocation of this residence permit. As we know, exile is not a choice and many refugees aspire to return to their country, their home, their lives before, if the evolution of the situation allows it one day. In the meantime, our protection is assured to them. Thus, like many European countries, including all the countries bordering Belgium, we align ourselves with this philosophy in order to insist on the temporary rather than unlimited aspect of refugee status. The Government's bill explicitly links the right of residence of refugees during the first five years of residence to developments in the country of origin or the country in which they lived. After five years of residence, from the date of the application for asylum which led to the recognition of refugee status, this limited right of residence will be converted into an unlimited right of residence, unless the refugee status has in the meantime been revoked, withdrawn following an individual examination by the CGRA. Let's remember, other countries have introduced this system for years. I am thinking of France, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal. There is also a need to be very clear about another aspect: this change in the granting of residence permits is not a change in the status of refugees. We do not affect the social status of refugees, which is guaranteed by the Geneva Convention, articles 23 and 24, and by the Qualification Directive. This project is the embodiment of this balance, which we want in our asylum policy, between a form of firmness and humanism. Refugees will no longer automatically enjoy an unlimited right of residence in our country, as permitted by the Geneva Convention and the Qualification Directive. However, there can be no question that persons who have committed serious crimes, war crimes, or are a threat to our society, may benefit from the statutes and benefits of refugee status. The same applies to persons who have defrauded to obtain a residence permit. With this project, we continue to develop this balanced migration policy. Without hesitation, without any reservations, Secretary of State, the Reform Movement will vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u207	Mr President, I would also like to emphasise this point in this draft law. Firstly, what we are doing now was also possible in the past, albeit in a different way. In the past, it was also possible to withdraw the residence of persons recognised as refugees. We must distinguish two things very clearly. There is, on the one hand, the granting of refugee status, which is a competence of the Commissioner-General as an independent body, on the basis of the Geneva Convention. On the other hand, there is, linked to it and as a result, the granting of residence. The latter may be regulated by the Member States. A number of Member States have already provided for a temporary and later permanent stay. In the case of recognition, we were also granted an immediate admission to permanent residence, albeit with the understanding that this was also registered in the law that the admission to permanent residence could also be withdrawn at the time the refugee's status was no longer necessary. Thus, even before the present proposal to amend the law, it was possible to withdraw the status and therefore the admission to stay, if there were no longer any reason to offer someone protection of refugee status, for example because the regime had changed in the country of origin or because the person concerned would no longer be prosecuted for his political belief or sexual orientation. The proposed amendment generalises the system for subsidiary protection, which we are also giving a temporary stay immediately today. A temporary stay shall first be granted, which shall be converted into a permanent stay after five years. During the first five years, it is therefore possible that the situation in the country of origin may change, which means that the person concerned no longer needs protection. I would, however, like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that in both our country and in those other countries there was very little or almost never. So, please, let us not miss out and say that refugees are only here temporarily and will all be gone soon. We can't do that either. For example, the conflict in Syria may be resolved quickly. Let us hope so, because many Syrians also want to go back to their country. Unfortunately, conflicts usually last a long time. Most of the time, regimes continue to prosecute and refugees will stay in our country for more than five years, wherever they develop their lives. Last year almost 40 000 refugees came into our country, of whom some 20 000 will probably be recognised. It is important that we start social and economic integration as soon as possible, which is recognised as refugee or subsidiary protection. The majority of these refugees are likely to remain permanently in our country. The employers also know this, Mr De Vriendt. After all, they have seen this in the past. On the papers of persons with subsidiary protection there is first a right of residence for one year, later for two years and then another two years. Of course, security in life is never a thing. Even if refugees are allowed to stay in our country, they may decide to return to their country of origin. Let us focus on integration, assuming that most will stay here. Finally, I would also like to mention the comment made by the Council of State. He considered that the issue of a first temporary residence permit valid for five years should in no case lead to a different treatment or to the creation of two types of citizens, A and B citizens. In this way, we agree with what Mr Ducarme has advocated in committee and here. For us, there must be no distinction between citizens. We have said that from the beginning. Others are convinced of that, too. Once asylum seekers are recognised, they have the same rights and, of course, the same obligations as everyone else. Finally, if the situation improves in a year's time and refugees have to return, then, before the residence permit is withdrawn, DVZ will always take into account the degree of local anchoring in our community. It is not, therefore, by definition that people are expelled if they do not stay in the country for five years. The personal situation of those concerned will then be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u208	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to two points which have been discussed in committee. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend, which I apologize for once again, but I did not fail to read the reports. The application for asylum is, as we know, an individual application. The withdrawal of this status, after five years, is also carried out on an individual basis. Having said that, we are faced with an overload of work. And as was said on the occasion of the review of the previous project, all the people who are currently getting recognition will also be numerous in five years' time. In doing so, the CGRA will face an additional workload with the risk that applications will not be considered individually, but rather in the light of the situation in the country of origin. This is a problem for me. I'm worried about this, even though I know you said that the files would be dealt with individually. In fact, however, work overload will be present in five years' time, given the high rate of recognition that is currently taking place. This aspect was used as an argument, in the previous draft, regarding the time frame for processing applications in the event of family reunification. There is therefore a need for consistency in this regard. A second point bothers me: the idea of wanting a maximum. We all share the will to integrate these people as quickly as possible. Imagine for a second being told: "In five years, be careful, your status will be withdrawn". What will still be the will of these people to integrate into a society from which they may not be a part five years later? This point remains a question for me. It seems to me in contradiction to the will, often expressed by the government and shared by us, to integrate refugees. For these reasons, our group will abstain from this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u209	Mr President, the sp.a is not necessarily opposed to this bill. We also know that this measure is already being applied in most European countries. However, I fear that this measure will not change much in the field because, unfortunately, international conflicts and wars will continue. The draft law allows the Minister or his authorised representative to decide to restrict residence, withdraw a permit, issue an order to leave the territory and so on. I have just referred to legal certainty and I should also like to refer to the limitation period for certain cases. As I said last week, in situations where children are involved, it should be maintained that it is no longer possible to make decisions after a seven-year stay. I do know that the Secretary of State is talking about proportionality and that he says he will take account of the context. I could still live with that if that were to happen in the area of tax fraud, but I see that it is not happening in that area. For the sake of clarity, there are many parties who stand up for children's rights and even for the rights of unborn children. This is about children who are often born here and in certain cases can be returned to a country where they have not been born, where they have never been, where they do not know the language and where they have no network. Seven years is actually half their childhood. We have also tabled two amendments. I'd really like to plead for humanity and mercy in those matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u210	Colleagues, we deplore the fact that this type of project is still focused on withdrawing protection, for fraud or otherwise, and the negative image of the refugee. In practice, the repeal and withdrawal of refugee protection are exceptional minority decisions taken by the CGRA. There were 41 decisions for the entire year 2015. The majority of refugees are likely to have their stay renewed after five years, given the long-term situations they are fleeing. It seems to me that it is above all the questionable communication of the government, which wants to be more restrictive. The signal given is therefore that, a priori, a refugee may return to his country after five years, whereas in principle, international protection remains valid once acquired, thus without any limitation in time. This is, moreover, the purpose of the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. Such a change will also lead to difficulties in terms of integration for refugees with a five-year residence permit, as well as administrative complications in the head of asylum bodies, which would have to examine a number of cases, in particular at the request of the Minister or his delegate, the Office of Foreigners. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u211	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions and comments. There was a comment by Mr De Vriendt that giving a temporary stay during the first five years would make integration difficult. I do not think there is any scientific evidence for that, quite the contrary. If we think further about this, we could see how things are going in countries where that rule exists. In the vast majority of the European Member States, a temporary residence status is granted if one is recognised as a refugee, and one does not immediately receive a permanent residence status. We were actually one of the exceptions in Europe, and in terms of integration we score very badly at European and international level. When it comes to socio-economic participation, to the major indicators of integration, we are not going to have a technical debate about it, about the gap between rich and poor, and between native and ethnicity, that is one of the greatest challenges of our society. Nevertheless, this always happened with a permanent right of residence. Yet you say that it embodies integration. However, it has always been a permanent right of residence. Apparently, giving a permanent right of residence has little impact on the success or failure of integration. You are going a little crazy when you say that this measure will hinder integration. I would like to reiterate that many countries have always granted a temporary right of residence to recognised refugees, and these countries are doing much better in terms of integration than we are. Seeing a one-to-one ratio isn't right, that's not right. Integration is about much more other matters and deserves a much broader debate than just talking about status. The vast majority of residence permits issued each year by the Foreign Affairs Office are almost always subject to temporary residence permits. Family reunification lasts for one year and becomes permanent only after five years. Subsidial protection applies for one year, three years and five years. A work permit shall be valid for one year. A study card is valid for one year. These are all temporary residence permits, always, which can be renewed. Regularisation is also a temporary residence permit for the first five years. Aren't these people integrated? Can't you do that? Don't they have a job, don't they have a lease? What you're saying isn't right at all. Am I saying that integration will be completely resolved? I didn't say that either. It is not right to go down the road and say that integration will get worse by introducing it. Mrs Matz, when you talk about the individual investigation versus the case-by-case investigation versus an investigation by region or country, as I said in committee, it is clear that the investigation must take place on an individual basis. With refugees, it is obviously essential to do so. That is international law. Therefore, I will follow her, there is no doubt about it. For subsidiary protection, this may be a conflict-by-conflict investigation. In this case, it will follow the requirements of international laws. Mrs De Coninck, if there are children that is your stick horse, we were able to talk about it last week in the corridors. There are guarantees of proportionality, which is explicitly stated in the law. It can't be more explicit. The Council of State has made a comment on this. We have literally taken over that passage. We have made it clear that there must be proportionality and that account must always be taken of the social and family situation in terms of integration. I believe that we have done as much as we need and what is prescribed. It has direct effect anyway. It wasn't even supposed to be explicit in the law, but we put it there. It has direct effect. It's European legislation. We have used it explicitly, just to show that the dossiers will be looked at individually, on a case-by-case basis, also on the basis of social inclusion and the family situation. It's symbolic, it's said. I don't think that's symbolic. I think it is very important that we should work with most European countries and all our neighbours. The Geneva Convention is very often invoked as the nec plus ultra of international protection. Well, the Geneva Convention is always explicitly concerned with temporary protection. You may read them, they appear in different articles. We are also putting this temporary protection in place as long as the conflict lasts, taking into account the social and family situation. I believe that we have introduced sufficient checks-and-balances and that this is a good draft law. I will certainly do it correctly, along with my administration and with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, which is absolutely behind this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u212	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, but I think you are confusing causality with correlation. This is a classic error in statistics, which may be related, for example, to the interpretation of the word "significant'. Occasionally such discussions appear, when it comes to statistics. We have not said at any time that there is a causal relationship between a permanent asylum status and ipso facto good, successful integration. What we're saying is that there is a correlation. It's an element that plays along. If these people are given only a temporary status, this will make their integration difficult. Does that mean that those people are by definition saddled with poor integration? No, because this can be compensated by other good integration measures. You are undoubtedly aware of such good integration measures, as you have been responsible for them in the Flemish government for 12 years. I'm sure you know all about that. This is something that interests me. Is there any scientific research on it? Maybe. However, I would like to put a very specific situation to you. Move into the skin of an employer who has to make a choice between investing in someone who is sure he can stay in the country, and someone who is not sure if that is the case, because that person may have to leave the country in a number of years. I believe that this element is part of the employer's decision. It is also an element that plays a part in the whole integration debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u213	Mr Secretary of State, on the previous point, Voka and the VBO have also said this: will we invest in people whose residence is limited to five years? I can understand your reasoning about proportionality and the guarantees you have registered. What bothers me particularly is that you are not consistent and that you are not looking at tax fraud in the same way. That is where the file is closed after seven years, in the name of legal certainty. If you apply the same reasoning there, I can live with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u214	I'm not an expert on tax fraud, but I can certainly say that this is about five years from now. After five years there is a permanent right of residence. That's never gonna be seven years. I also dispute the correlation statement. Nor is there any empirical or scientific evidence for it, yet no studies I know, but I will have it investigated further. I dispute the fact that giving a temporary stay will make it harder to find a job and a house. In the vast majority of countries where the temporary stay has been used for many years, for 30 years, as long as the asylum law exists in those countries, integration is much better than here. I therefore contest the correlation statement on the merits. However, it is an interesting idea to instruct Myria to investigate this. They get a lot of money for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u215	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u216	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1730/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1730/4) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u217	• Monica De Coninck (1730/5) ****** The discussion Articles are closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u218	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 5 and 6. Reserved: the vote on amendments and Articles 5 and 6. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u219	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u220	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u221	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u222	Mr President, I would like to talk about temporary unemployment. There are a number of amendments to this, which implement the agreement of the Group of Ten. It concerns the strengthening of the employer's response contribution when they rely on temporary unemployment. In addition, we have a number of conditions in line with economic reality. For example, in cases of force majeure, as we recently observed with the attacks, we are able to apply for temporary unemployment by means of a reasoned application. That is a good thing, because it counteracts the abuse of temporary unemployment. The Group of Ten had also asked for something else, and I would like to draw your attention to that. He asked that the government quickly take an initiative to prevent abuse of temporary unemployment in subcontracting. This is also mentioned in the White Paper on social fraud, which was proposed last summer. This concerns the following. In the context of cross-border employment, constructions are being set up whereby temporary unemployment is applied for in Belgium and the work released is completed by a temporary foreign worker at dumped prices. These are purely social dumping practices. That is prohibited, and that is also in the same way in collective agreement No. 53. However, it is not easy to enforce that ban. However, by linking the ban to a point in the White Paper on social fraud, in particular the limitation of the number of vertical subcontractors, we can make that provision more enforceable. Workers could then no longer be placed on temporary unemployment if an employee of a subcontractor of at least two levels in the chain would then take his place. It is a common demand of the social partners to eliminate this abuse. The question for the government is to do this very quickly, so that we can also close the door to social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. I wanted to explain why we abstained in committee and why we will do so again this evening. This project includes a part on reductions in social contributions. For us, however, these must be accompanied as much as possible by guarantees in terms of job creation, as is the case with the Maribel system. This guarantee is essential to us, especially after the publication by Eurostat of figures on the employment rate in Belgium, as I had the opportunity to mention it at the beginning of the sitting during the current issues. While the previous government planned to provide significant resources for job creation in the non-market sector through the Maribel system, we regret that the current executive chooses instead to reduce costs for employers without the obligation to hire.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u224	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u225	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1722/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1722/4) The draft law has 29 articles. The bill has 29 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u226	• 7... Meryame Kitir (1722/5) • 8 years Marco Van Hees cs (1722/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments will take place at a later stage. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u227	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u228	At the request of the proposers, I propose that the following legislative proposals be referred to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Willy Demeyer, Mr Eric Thiébaut and Mr Sébastian Pirlot) to submit to the Chamber of Representatives an annual report on the sale of arms by police forces, No. 1549/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Raoul Hedebouw) amending the law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, No. 1629/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following proposals to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism: - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx, Stéphane Crusnière, Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Willy Demeyer, Eric Thiébaut and Sebastian Pirlot) establishing the submission of an annual report to the House of Representatives on the sale of arms by the police, No. 1549/1; - the bill (MM. Marco Van Hees and Raoul Hedebouw) amending the Organization Act for the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis of 18 July 1991, No. 1629/1. These legislative proposals were previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. These proposals had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u229	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 April 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the draft law of Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre amending the Law of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention as regards the conditions for the extension of the arrest period (No. 1788/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u230	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Catherine Fonck and Anne Dedry and Mr Benoît Lutgen on improving the follow-up to workers' health and the smoother transmission of the occupational health file (No. 1789/1); - the legislative proposal of Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Ms Anne Dedry and Mr Benoît Lutgen amending the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on health surveillance of workers, with a view to improving the follow-up of workers' health and the smoother transmission of the occupational health file (No. 1790/1); - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Wouter De Vriendt on the pensions of women (Doc. 1792/1); - the legislative proposal of Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer amending the regulation to increase the level of benefits for single people up to the European poverty threshold (No. 1797/1); - the legislative proposal by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer amending the rules on raising family benefits to the European poverty threshold (No. 1798/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u231	- Mrs Els Van Hoof's bill on genital mutilation (No. 1799/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u232	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 April 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill of Messrs. Stefaan Van Hecke and Gilles Vanden Burre amending the Pre-trial Detention Act of 20 July 1990 as regards the conditions for extending the period of arrest (No. 1788/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u233	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Catherine Fonck and Anne Dedry and Mr Benoît Lutgen on strengthening the monitoring of workers' health and improving the transmission of the occupational health file (No 1789/1); - the draft law of Mrs Catherine Fonck, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Ms Anne Dedry and Mr Benoît Lutgen amending the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on the monitoring of workers' health with a view to strengthening the monitoring of workers' health and improving the transmission of the occupational health file (No 1790/1); - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr MM. Georges Gilkinet and Wouter De Vriendt on women's pensions (No. 1792/1); - the proposal for a law by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer amending the regulations with a view to raising the amount of allowances for isolated persons to the level of the European poverty line (No 1797/1); - the proposal for a law by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Stefaan Vercamer amending the regulation with a view to raising the amount of benefits for households to the level of the European poverty line (No 1798/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u234	- Mrs Els Van Hoof's proposal for a law on genital mutilation (No 1799/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u235	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would also like to propose Mr Philippe Goffin's proposal. amending the law of... amending the law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notarial office with regard to the nomination committees for the notarial institution (No. 1801/10).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u236	I also propose that you take into consideration the proposal for a law of Mr Philippe Goffin et al. amending the law of... amending the law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the commissions of appointment for the notariat (No. 1801/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u237	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u238	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 19 April 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 19 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 134/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Sarah Claerhout and Nele Lijnen and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 134/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Mrs Sarah Claerhout and Mr Nele Lijnen and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u239	Yes 77 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u240	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Michel de Lamotte cs to insert a recommendation 16/1(n). (1720/6) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Michel de Lamotte cs inserting a recommendation 16/1(n). (1720/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 53 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u241	A motion was tabled by the ladies Kattrin Jadin, Leen Dierick and Anne Dedry and Mr Jef Van den Bergh, Bert Wollants, David Geerts, Dirk Janssens, Jean-Marc Nollet, Daniel Senesael and Michel de Lamotte. A motion was tabled by Kattrin Jadin, Leen Dierick and Anne Dedry and MM. Jef Van den Bergh, Bert Wollants, David Geerts, Dirk Janssens, Jean-Marc Nollet, Daniel Senesael et Michel de Lamotte. This motion was tabled in the plenary session of 21 April 2016. This motion was tabled in plenary on April 21, 2016. I put to the vote the motion by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Leen Dierick and Anne Dedry and Mr Jef Van den Bergh, Mr Bert Wollants, Mr David Geerts, Mr Dirk Janssens, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Daniel Senesael and Mr Michel de Lamotte. I put to the vote the motion of Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Mrs Len Dierick and Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr MM. Jef Van den Bergh, Bert Wollants, David Geerts, Dirk Janssens, Jean-Marc Nollet, Daniel Senesael et Michel de Lamotte. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u242	Yes 129 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u243	Mr President, we have worked extensively in the Dieselgate Committee. The group adopted the motion and I abstained. It is true that 59 important points have been developed. It's a good job. However, we regretted the lack of ambition. Above all, we regretted at the last sitting the sluggish position on consumer protection, in the context of the position which the chairman of the committee took a posteriori. We believe that this position was particularly ill-advised in the context of a decision taken by common accord. We will pay close attention to the follow-up to the work of this committee, as defined in the text of the resolution. For us, consumer protection remains one of the priorities. We wish to implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u244	Mr President, I would like to say very briefly that we agreed to withdraw our motion for a resolution which was harder to return to a more consensual proposal and a small but common denominator. This has not received the approval of the majority, whereas we could have reached a consensus to force or, in any case, interest, Volkswagen to compensate European consumers in the same way as American consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u245	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Pas cs to insert a point 4 (n). (1206/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Pas cs to insert a point 4 (n). (1206/5) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 131 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u246	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1206/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1206/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u247	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[109]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1590/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1590/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u248	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1645/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1645/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u249	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Vanessa Matz on Article 3. (1726/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Vanessa Matz in Article 3. (1726/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz on Article 4. (1726/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz in Article 4. (1726/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u250	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1726/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1726/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u252	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Monica De Coninck on article 5. (1730/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Monica De Coninck to Article 5. (1730/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 49 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted, with the Erratum (1730/6). Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted with the erratum (1730/6). Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 10 by Monica De Coninck on article 6. (1730/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Monica De Coninck to Article 6. (1730/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u253	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 93 Yes No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u255	No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1730/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1730/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u256	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an article 30(n). (1722/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an Article 30(n). (1722/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Meryame Kitir inserting an article 30(n). (1722/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Meryame Kitir to insert an Article 30(n). (1722/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u257	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 91 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1722/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1722/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-28-54-plenair-ip108x.u258	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday 4 May 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Wednesday, May 4, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 4 May 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 4 May 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
