ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u1	The minister can stay until 12:30. I propose that we deal with the questions up to point 11. I'm asking everyone to be as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u2	Minister, it is important to examine exactly what has been agreed in the government on the yard's corporate taxes. That's an important shipyard. Transparency and simplification are major challenges. The Council of Ministers has also made a start on the debate or at least has the merit of fueling the debate with comments in various directions, because there is concern about the cost of such an exercise. That is why it was suspended from budgetary control. I do not think I need to outline the outlines of the debate anymore. We all know that it is important for our competitiveness, but we must also give European harmonisation every opportunity. There should not be such a thing as a race to the bottom with our rates, because it does not benefit us collectively continental. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister my question. What is the government's position on the notional interest deduction, which is closely linked to the discussion? I refer to the Prime Minister's earlier answers, which created a flou artistique on this issue. Can the government clarify why the European Commission's plans on country-by-country reporting are being called into question, including by you, Minister of Finance, and the anti-BEPS attitude? I sometimes see the rational nature of certain reasonings, but I think we should commit ourselves to checking whether we would be better off finally if we increased the basis of solidarity. However, if people immediately cross that with a country-by-country competition, we may be following a less beneficial path and that reflex might be too defensive. That is what the debate is about today. In this context, are we going to be a single person, or are we going to be absolutely in favour of abolishing the theoretical deduction, thereby losing sight of the rest of the picture? Mr Minister, could you clarify once again the position of the Minister for the Budget, namely that the reform which would cost at least EUR 3.5 billion and that it does not at all want to abolish the theoretical deduction? Mr President, I have tried to update the question as much as possible, because I think it is a very important point. Where are we today? Anyone can, of course, express their party preferences, but what is the government's project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u3	First of all, Mr Deseyn, I would like to point out that Belgium has always, in the past and today, been a constructive partner in the development of tax fraud and avoidance in the OECD and the European Union. Belgium was among others the first country to decide to exchange its tax rulings spontaneously. In addition, a series of draft laws are currently being prepared to transpose the action points in the BEPS report into Belgian legislation. As has been said, Belgium has always worked constructively on the proposals made by the OECD in this context in recent years. As a member of the OECD and the European Union, both of which have endorsed the action lines, the Belgian Government will, of course, be loyal to the agreements reached. There is therefore no question whatsoever about the action points. Nevertheless, we want to remain open to fear the divergence between the positions reached by or through the OECD and the positions to be taken or taken by the European Commission. As European positions differ and are stricter than those of the OECD, we must not be blind to the fact that this can lead to major competitive disadvantages, with all the consequences for economic growth, employment and the budget, among other things. Moreover, any further development and refinement of the positions in question, as is always the case in the OECD negotiations, should take account of the particularities and economic situation of each country concerned. The well-known distinction between the larger and smaller countries is one of the many elements that play or can play. As far as the reform of corporate taxation is concerned, the government has entrusted me with the task of drawing up proposals. I will do so, hopefully, with knowledge, and on the basis of a serious analysis of the current system and the current economic reality, including in the area of corporation tax, all of this with the aim of achieving balanced proposals, taking into account the inevitable budgetary contradictions. I really will not make any prepayments on cost or on the way in which a particular modulation or modulation is more budget-neutral than it is not budget-neutral. This will be reflected in the proposals which we will put on the government table in the relatively short term. It is clear, however, that we are seeking a reduction in the nominal rate. If I am right, I think this is right, apart from Malta, we have the highest nominal rate in the European Union. We absolutely want to reduce this rate and pay particular attention to the position of SMEs. That will be absolutely crucial in the final proposals. As I have already indicated less or more, the means and the way in which that objective will be achieved will be concretely included in my proposals to the government. I assume that you can assume from me that I do not really want to make any preliminaries now, but that this will be done in accordance with the priorities and objectives and taking into account the counterintenses set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the update. At the heart of the discussion is the question of where the European Commission's divergences and ambitions towards the OECD lie. Perhaps we should take a good look at what we do and what we cannot agree with. After all, it would be very wrong to attack the European Commission. Where appropriate, a country gives the impression that it is not fully involved in the OECD story. That must then be clearly stated and argued. We can't be naive. After all, why should our country not support certain initiatives by the European Commission on the basis of a certain protectionism? I'm sure that's not a bad term. You indicate that a reduction in nominal rates is the great ambition. When we look at the real rates, many sectors have also noted this, we notice that the tax reduction under the tax shift generates hardly any derived effects. Because of some good measures in the past, we already had lower rates. In this respect, too, the real situation must sometimes be taken into account. Of course, it can always be better. However, we must also consider whether the budgetary effort in terms of competition, competition and purchasing power has been distributed fairly. We are therefore talking about very important discussions. Nevertheless, I should like to avoid hindering the European Commission with all the critical remarks that we, as a Member State, have to make. The aim must be for the European Commission to be able to take on its coordinating role. If it goes beyond certain contours of the negotiating mandate or of the coordinating mandate, we must be able to make a fair argument in this respect. However, let us not forget that coordination is taking place. If we had to do this alone, there would be little of the OECD measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I have four questions. First, is it true what the Chairman of the Prior Decisions Service said at the VRT, namely that since 2015 all rulings have been published individually? How many rulings were delivered in 2015? How many of these were published individually? Secondly, does this position of the President mean the end of the collective publication of decisions in the annual report? Third, how many rulings delivered since the start of the Prior Decision Service have not yet been published individually? Finally, will all old rulings that have not yet been published individually still be published individually?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u6	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, I would like to confirm to you the statement made by the chairman of the ruling committee, in particular that the tax rulings issued since 2015 were or will be published individually on Fisconetplus, both the favourable and the negative and the mixed decisions. The ruling committee is currently finalising the figures for 2015, but preliminary figures indicate that 738 decisions were delivered in 2015. Of these, 691 will be published. The remaining 47 concern applications for which no decision has been taken in the course of the ruling procedure. The ruling committee has indeed decided to publish all decisions taken since 1 January 2015 individually, which means that the Committee has since waived collective publications. The law establishing a system of prior decisions on tax matters provides that all decisions are published anonymously, subject to the provisions on professional secrecy. Therefore, it is not a legal obligation to publish the rulings individually. For 2015, most decisions were either individually or collectively included in the annual report and thus published. The ruling committee will not return to the decision at the time to publish them either individually or collectively for the rulings that date before 2015. I would stress once again that the Belgian ruling committee is one of the most transparent in Europe. Since 2015, all rulings relating to cross-border transactions have been spontaneously exchanged with the other countries concerned. We have been at the forefront of this in Europe. Finally, as regards the decisions taken for 2015, it is not possible to distinguish between unpublished decisions and the applications for annulment within the short timeframe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u7	Minister, with regard to the situation from 2015, I can only express my satisfaction at this because that is the position that I have always defended in this Chamber, both in the majority and in the opposition. I do regret this, and I believe that we will have to discuss this in the special committee, because I believe that the rulings are part of the area of investigation that rulings from before 2015 will not be published. Minister, I would like to point out that it is wrong to say that all rulings are published either individually or collectively. For example, the 2008 report does not contain any, either individual or collective, mention of rulings relating to excess profit delivered in 2008. I also protested against this at the time. Minister, I believe that we are doing the right thing to bring our legislation into line with the principles that you have just outlined and which apply from 2015. Firstly, we need the abolition of Article 5 of the Royal Decree implementing the Law on the Prior Decision Service. Secondly, I believe that we should include in that law that there are only anonymous individual publications, and that we should therefore abolish the possibility of collective publications. After all, these collective publications are nothing at all, they do not give the transparency that you have been striving for since 2015, and which I have been aiming for for a long time, and where we are each other's allies. I have a bill ready to amend the law on the Prior Decision Service, which I will submit one of the next few days and which goes in the direction outlined just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u8	Minister, what approach does Belgium take in its tax treaty policy, in particular as regards the choice of whether a double tax treaty or an information exchange treaty is concluded with a country? Does an analysis precede that? In what cases is the Belgian attitude not to want to conclude a double tax treaty but only an information exchange treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u9	Mr Van der Maelen, the choice to conclude with a State a general convention to avoid double taxation, a DBV, or an agreement limited to the exchange of tax information, a TIEA, depends on a number of factors. In the first instance, it is examined whether the combination of the tax systems of Belgium and the partner state could give rise to a double taxation for companies and/or for natural persons. It should be borne in mind that Belgium does not have fiscal measures to avoid double taxation of profits carried out by foreign establishments of Belgian companies. The tax burden on the profits of a local establishment of a Belgian company in a given country will therefore be much higher than the tax burden on the profits of a local company or a foreign company which has a DBV with that country or has taken unilateral measures to avoid double taxation. This is very detrimental to the competitive position of Belgian companies wishing to operate in countries with which Belgium does not have a double tax treaty. A high withholding tax on fees from another State, without compensation in Belgium, may also be an important reason for concluding a DBV with the State in question. Secondly, the real economic relations between Belgium and the partner state are also examined. Not only does this take into account the existing situation, but it also takes into account future investment opportunities. I would also point out that more and more Belgian SMEs are becoming internationally active and are starting to engage in foreign activities. Also, and certainly not insignificant, Belgium is only willing to close a DBV if the partner state actually applies the international standards on transparency and exchange of information on tax matters. Of course, the willingness to conclude a double taxation treaty or an information exchange treaty must also be present with the other State before a treaty can actually be concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u10	In your speech, Minister, I miss the principle, which is one of the committee's recommendations on major tax fraud, that Belgium does not conclude double taxation treaties with tax havens. This is a 2009 recommendation which has been violated by successive ministers, except in the period of the Di Rupo administration. I also refer to a 2014 OECD Document Preventing the Granting of Treaty Benefits in Inappropriate Circumstances. It calls on the OECD to be very cautious in concluding double taxation treaties with tax havens because, firstly, it is usually the case that in these havens little or certainly no high taxes are levied and the risk of double taxation is therefore very small and, secondly, the practice shows that these double tax conventions with tax havens usually result in double non-taxation. Nevertheless, this government has submitted double tax treaties several times, in the Foreign Affairs Committee and subsequently approved by the Chamber, with the Isle of Man and the Seychelles to name only two. My appeal is that, especially after the Panama Papers, we not only follow the recommendation of the Commission and the OECD in the future, but that we transpose the existing double taxation treaties with tax havens into information exchange agreements. I think that we would then act as a reliable international fiscal partner that respects the consensus that exists internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u11	Mr President, Minister, it is interesting to know exactly what the concept of flexiloon means. If we can get a very good explanation of this today, there is no doubt that this would save a lot of discussion. We had a discussion on this last time, but it was not held in the light of the latest amendments. It was stated at that time that the definition of the exempt remuneration under the flexi-job contract should be based on the social provisions. They clearly state that only flexiloon and flexi holiday money are included. Thus, all social benefits excluded from the concept of pay, including commercial vehicles, are excluded. You then referred to the pleading in the amendment in question and said that this would be enough to exclude commercial vehicles from the tax exemption. There is still a discussion that, with that responsibility alone, it is not possible to exclude 100% that the commercial vehicles would be covered by this tax exemption. The last version of the text after the amendments were adopted states that the tax exemption refers to remuneration paid or granted under the flexi-job contract. What exactly is the point? There is no more reference to the notion flexiloon. This was replaced by a general reference to all remuneration paid or awarded to a flexi job worker. One can then look at what is being awarded and what can also be used privately. The question is whether the advantage resulting from such a scheme is covered by the tax-law notion of remuneration. It could then be concluded that this advantage can also benefit from tax exemption. If one interprets it lyrically, I think saying that there was more in the initial pleading would be a weak defense. If we agree on the substance, we may have to table a small bill or a proposal. So I want to know whether you are grounded in the fact that this ambiguity can continue to be cultivated. If it can be interpreted literally, then that interpretation must also be followed. Perhaps you think that this is a matter of a few exceptions and that it is not a widespread practice, but it is also not excluded. In that case, you might be able to submit a draft to dot the i. I wonder what will happen to that. Will there be adjustments to exclude, more generally, the benefits of all kinds? It concerns the benefits not granted under a collective agreement concluded in the Joint Committee, in this case by the hotel company, assuming that flexilons are limited to that sector. I would therefore like to see a final settlement to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u12	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, as I have already replied to your oral question No. 9251 must be defined by reference to the social provisions, which clearly state that only flexitime pay and flexitime pay are included. All social benefits excluded from the concept of pay are therefore excluded, including allowances subject to a special contribution, such as benefits in respect of commercial vehicles. The justification for this is reflected in the references mentioned in Article 3 2° of the Law of 16 November 2015 on various provisions on social affairs, as amended by the Programme Act of 26 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u13	Minister, I hope that your answer will be an argument of authority and will be quoted sufficiently, especially for those who say that there is still a lot of discussion about it. It's a good thing your cabinet looked at it again. Some will probably continue to claim that there has recently been a publication "The current wording is not sufficient and that there is some ambiguity in it. Since you have now explicitly confirmed the interpretation, one should almost be of the kind of will to continue to pursue proceedings. I hope that this will not be done and that a draft will not be necessary, but perhaps, for the sake of safety, if that discussion continues to bubbling, we should consider the possibility of a more explicit wording by means of a subsequent law laying down various provisions. It is always good to strive for maximum clarity. If all the provisions, the whole history and the pleading have to be dragged in, then perhaps it can be done better. It may not be a superurgent issue, but it may be a tip for a subsequent law laying down various provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u14	Mr Minister, I have two questions to put to you on the basis of an article published in L.Echo de la Bourse. Firstly, is it true that Belgium has tabled an amendment with a view to an exception for all derived financial products with public debt as active among themselves? Secondly, is it true that Belgium is also advocating an exception to futures and interest rate swaps from the application of the FTT? Can you explain this position? What was the reaction of the other countries concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u15	Mr Van der Maelen, in line with the coalition agreement, I have constantly stressed in this discussion the fact that the FTT tax should not have a negative impact on our government debt. You are also aware of my concerns about the effects on the real economy, pension savings funds and insurance companies. Belgium has always maintained this line in the technical working groups. However, Belgium has not tabled a specific amendment at any time. The concern that has just been outlined arises from the fact that investors have different investment policies according to the size of the countries in which they invest. Because investors do not necessarily have to buy debt from small countries if they wish to invest in the euro area and, more specifically, in euro area government paper, these countries already have a comparative disadvantage, if I may put it this way, in terms of the liquidity of their debt and their debt financing. As a small country, we must therefore pay particular attention to everything that has an impact on the price of our debt and also on the financing possibilities of our sovereign debt, which, as you know, is still relatively high. The FTT can negatively influence the liquidity of the Belgian debt because banks that purchase OLO debt instruments use futures and swaps to cover their position. I would also like to refer in this respect to Mrs Leclercq's presentation on this issue in this committee a few weeks ago. Since several transactions take place in that case, the financial transaction tax will have to be paid several times. Since this cost can and will have an impact on the price and liquidity of the Belgian debt, I am convinced that it is necessary to be vigilant in this respect. We will continue to cooperate in the further discussions to establish an FTT, but I would like to point out that this dossier is gradually transcending the symbolism of fiscal justice. It is my firm belief that we should pay attention to unwanted side effects. At the moment, the state of play is that the ministers of the participating countries have still not reached an agreement on how to proceed with the FTT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u16	Mr President, I have the unpleasant feeling that we have a doublespeak exercise here. Here in the committee the minister says that Belgium is loyal to the creation of a financial transaction tax. However, I am part of an international network of NGOs that follow this closely. All the signals that I get from that network indicate that Belgium takes a diplomatically expressed "diplomatically' very passive to downright negative attitude. This was made very clear here a few weeks ago by a representative of the European Commission. She found that I am sharper than she has since the new government took office, the Belgian representatives' actions have evolved from advocates of an FTT tax to a very difficult partner. Secondly, I would also like to point out that the argument put forward by the Minister and by a representative of the National Bank is not correct. There is a report by the European Commission itself, which shows that for the derived financial products with public debt, on the one hand, it provides an additional cost for the management of a debt of a euro, but on the other hand it guarantees Belgium three euros of additional income. As far as the State Treasury is concerned, the result of the operation is therefore plus 2%. The only disadvantage for this government is that it has to be coughed up by the banks, and this government does not want that. This government is always the advocate of the interests of the banks, while this FTT policy is an instrument for allowing these banks to contribute to the great social damage they have done with the banking crisis. Minister, I would appreciate it much more if you were to say that you are opposed to this tax instead of that doublespeak. With this proposal on futures and interest swaps, you bury the financial transaction tax, because according to the German research institute DWI this means half the proceeds of the financial transaction tax. You know damn well and better than all of us, that if this happens, a number of smaller countries will drop out, because then the cost of introducing the FTT will be greater than the revenue they now have from all kinds of banking taxes. So, Minister, be clear, if you are against the FTT, then come out openly and do not continue your mole work, your sabotage work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u17	We normally stop at 12:30. However, Mr van der Maelen, I would suggest that you put together the three questions that you still have and which are in the same context. You may be able to ask the three questions in telegram style. Some of them already belong in the special committee. However, I would like to give you the opportunity to put them here. Nevertheless, try to be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u18	Mr President, that is an almost impossible task, but I will do my best.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u19	Nothomb zei ooit: "Doing good synthesis is important to Parliament."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u20	Mr Minister, my first series of questions concerns the directive laying down rules to combat tax avoidance practices. Firstly, do you agree that the principle of subsidiarity has been complied with? Secondly, do you agree that the European Union is the most appropriate level of policy to tackle cross-border tax avoidance practices? Thirdly, do you agree with me that the directive in question does not in any way refer to the theoretical deduction? Fourthly, if you do not agree with me, in what article or in what passage does the proposal for a directive relate to the notional income deduction? Fifthly, what problem do you think arises in relation to the notional income deduction? Sixthly, are you aware that the European Commission is in favour of the principle of notional deduction? Seventhly, in the meantime, it has become clear that you are opposed to the European Commission's proposal on the limitation of interest subsidies. Can you explain your position? Finally, what is your response to Minister Dijsselbloem's wish to conclude the dossier at the Ecofin Council in May 2016? Now I come to my second question series. Recently, the government has submitted double taxation treaties with the Isle of Man and Seychelles to Parliament for approval. The majority approved it. In addition, according to our information, negotiations are under way with Panama. The Panama Papers have shown what we already knew, namely that the three countries mentioned are being used prominently for fencing companies. A tax treaty with such countries makes screen companies even more attractive. Minister, what progress has been made with the negotiations with Panama on a double taxation treaty? Do you agree with me that the agreements with the Seychelles and the Isle of Man should be put on hold? Finally, I would like to hear from you on the basis of what reasoning you have decided to remove Panama from the list of tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u21	Minister, you have the floor to answer the three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u22	Mr President, I will try to reply quickly, but a little substantial. Mr van der Maelen, in reply to your first series of questions, I would like to make a preliminary remark. It is clear that cross-border tax avoidance by multinational companies, inter alia using mismatches between tax laws of different countries, cannot be effectively addressed if countries act separately without making clear agreements. The fight against aggressive tax evasion is best done at the broadest possible level, for example in the framework of the BEPS Action Plan, approved by OECD Member States and the G20 countries. On 8 December 2015, the Ecofin Council drew conclusions on this issue, and I refer in particular to paragraphs 17 and 18 of those conclusions, inviting the European Commission to submit proposals on BEPS recommendations on Action 2, differences through hybrid structures, Action 3, rules on foreign subsidiaries, Action 4, rules on interest limitation, Action 6, anti-abuse rules, Action 7, status of fixed information, and Action 13 reporting by country." The proposal for a directive you mentioned is the result of this. Article 12 of the Treaty on European Union instructs national parliaments to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. In the first instance, therefore, it is up to the Chamber to determine whether and to what extent a legislative proposal from the European Commission complies with that principle of subsidiarity. Indeed, the anti-tax avoidance directive does not target the Belgian regime of the notional income deduction. A few weeks ago, in this committee, I expressed the Belgian position on the anti-tax avoidance directive. Let me remind you of this position. The European Union is not an economic island and we must therefore take into account the global context of the European Commission's proposal. To the extent that Europe wants to be more rigorous than the OECD, it is clear that we would face major challenges in keeping business in Belgium sufficiently attractive at international level, both for SMEs and for large companies. It is therefore not so much a question of subsidiarity but rather of ensuring a level playing field between EU Member States and third countries. With regard to the proposed restrictions on entry, the so-called interest EBITDA restriction, I repeat that our country must deal with this correctly but with caution from the point of view of competitiveness. I come to the question about Seychelles and Panama. You will recall, Mr van der Maelen, that a double taxation agreement with Panama was initialled in 2010. It was planned to continue these negotiations with Panama, but it is clear that the conduct of those negotiations and their content will be heavily influenced by recent revelations, better known as the Panama Papers, and by Panama's constructive or non-constructive attitude towards the application of the global standard on the automatic exchange of financial information. Where appropriate, a similar assessment will have to be made for the other jurisdictions covered by the information contained in the Panama Papers. You also know that the concept of Panama Papers arose from the fact that the law firm where all that information comes from is located in Panama, but that it is actually about much more than just about structures that would or would relate to Panama. You also had a question about the Belgian list of tax havens, in particular the recent amendment of that list which was included in the Royal Decree implementing the WIB 92 and published in the Belgian Official Journal on 10 March. In the report to the King published together with the aforementioned decree, the following can be read: "The list has often been mentioned as the Belgian list of tax havens." It is necessary to emphasise here that this is not the case at all. This list is a list of countries whose common law provisions on the taxation of profits are considered to be significantly more favourable than in Belgium. The list that is the subject of this Royal Decree is in no way related to the criteria used by the OECD or any other international body to designate a country or jurisdiction as a tax haven or as a non-cooperative jurisdiction. In order to be included in this list, a country must therefore first have a tax regime applicable to companies and that tax regime must, moreover, either provide for a common nominal rate of tax on the profits of companies below 15% or result in an effective tax burden below 15%. In Panama, the tax legislation was amended in such a way that, when the list was drawn up, a common nominal rate or real tax burden on the profits of companies was fixed at least 15%. A new analysis is, of course, being carried out in the context of recent events and the list will be updated where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic398x.u23	Minister, first the directive. You and I know that the interest deduction is the preferred instrument used by multinational companies to ensure that they pay little or no taxes. This is why it is prominent in the OECD Plan, which was also approved by Belgium in Ecofin. I refer to your own action plan to combat fraud, Minister, which states that Belgium is in favour of a reduction in interest relief in order to establish a uniform system at European level. Mr Minister, I do not understand why you are opposed to the deduction of interest, all the more so because the European Commission has opted for a very cautious approach to the deduction of interest. They are moving towards the lowest possible limitation of interest relief to allow Member States wishing to go further to provide for higher restrictions. But even against this very cautious position of the Commission, which I personally consider to be too cautious an assessment of the OECD agreements, you are going to oppose it. May I also take this opportunity to ask you about what press agency Agence Europe mentioned, namely the E-Directive on country by country reporting. I read: "The Belgian Minister Johan Van Overtveldt stressed the need for caution with the confidentiality of information". Minister, not only as regards interest relief, but also as regards country by country reporting, you are the Minister who, along with a few others, slows down on all wheels. This is not at all in line with the story you always tell here and that I have heard so many times from colleagues from the right-wing parties, particularly that Belgium, as a small country, cannot take individual fiscal measures: they must be taken at least at European level and preferably internationally. When European and international action is taken, we find that our Finance Minister is going to slow down on all wheels. My second question was about the Seychelles. I would like to point out to you, Minister, that this treaty was concluded under the Di Rupo I government and that the then competent Secretary of State and my party in the government refused to forward the Seychelles to the Chamber in view of the changed international consensus on the treatment of tax havens. I note that this right-wing government has no problem presenting double taxation treaties with Seychelles to Parliament. And to my regret, the government is being followed by the majority parties. I continue to insist that, for all the double taxation treaties Belgium has with tax havens, we join the international consensus and turn them into an exchange of information treaty. Finally, there is the agreement with Panama, Minister. The fact that Panama was taken off the list of tax havens by you and your department is an illustration of the lax way in which this government handles it, of the slow way in which this government joins the international consensus that it is done to close its eyes to the damaging practices of tax havens. This government has obviously had no problem with this in the past few weeks and months. I hope that the work of the special committee following the publication of the Panama Papers will lead to a change in the attitude of this government.
