ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the flag holders are real emblems of Belgium, its history and its weaponry. They proudly wear these banners during the commemoration ceremonies, recalling the tragedies that the Belgian population has experienced - deportations, exterminations, shootings - but also the national victories to which our compatriots have been able to contribute decisively. It is they who bear witness to the traces of our history, who recall the brave struggles of our elders and who keep the memory of too many lives sacrificed to defend our freedom. Minister, it seems to me that the common dedication of these women and men, the true cornerstone of the duty of remembrance, should be recognized and emphasized publicly. With this in mind, a day dedicated to flag holders is held annually, but has organizational difficulties in the absence of official recognition. Would you be in favour of establishing a national drape-bearer day? If so, what would be the date? September 1st had been proposed under the previous legislature. Do you intend to follow this proposal or are there other dates that are being considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u2	Mr Senesael, I agree with the desire to express gratitude to the flag holders who are actively involved in the duty of memory. This gratitude was expressed through the Royal Decree of 18 January 2001 granting them a diploma of honour. In addition, they are invited to three national commemoration days. This is 8 May and 11 November for the commemoration of the victims of the two world wars and 7 April for all the soldiers who have lost their lives during humanitarian and peacekeeping missions since 1945. These days also aim to preserve the memory of war atrocities and to stimulate the awareness of present-day generations. Their organization requires a human and financial investment from Defence. Therefore, I am not in favour of the organization, by my department, of a national day dedicated specifically to flag holders, especially since some patriotic organizations have no connection with the Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u3	I thank the minister for his response. I don't share his point of view. Indeed, I am one of those who would like the Defence to recognize these flag holders and above all the duty of memory that has just been recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u4	Minister, a report by Transparency International on the Government Defence Anti-Corruption Index was published in December. A comparison has been made between NATO countries and partner countries and a study has been carried out on how to score possible risks of corruption in national defence agencies. Our country's gonna come out okay. We got a good score. There's a ranking made up. The United Kingdom achieves an A score, the highest score. A number of countries achieve a B score, including Belgium. The other countries are Canada, Denmark, Germany, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland and the US, as NATO countries, and Finland, Sweden and Switzerland, as partner countries. The other countries achieve a C, D or E score. Those are lower scores and there is a higher risk. DOD scored a good score, so much better. There are also recommendations in the report, also specifically for Belgium. I think it's interesting to know how you respond to that. For procurement and operations we get a C-score. So that's a point of interest. It also calls for more attention to be paid to whistleblower mechanisms. Recommendations are also made for the selection procedures of the middle framework and higher framework. There would be an internal Defence Code of Conduct, but it should be made public. Anti-corruption training should be organised on a more regular basis and should also be made possible for staff who do not belong to the middle or upper framework. There must also be an explicit doctrine on corruption in military operations. Public information on military procurement is available, but it is too limited and formulated in too general terms. Higher standards for private companies competing in defence contracts, as well as for subcontractors, need to be developed. These are a number of recommendations from Transparency International. The report was supported or became known by the Peace Institute. Soon it will organise a meeting on this subject. Has the department taken note of the full report? What do you think of the general report of Transparency International? What do you think of the recommendations of Transparency International for Defence? Will you take action in this area in order to implement the recommendations in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u5	Mr Buysrogge, I took note of the results of the Transparency International anti-corruption index for our defence at the beginning of December. I understand that it was the first time that such an index was drawn up for the Belgian Defence Department. I am pleased to note that the department has scored well and is comparable to the neighbouring countries or to the NATO countries, as you yourself said. On the basis of the results, I can say that Defence is doing very well in the area of budget, both in terms of its management and transparency. The internal audit at the Ministry of Defence is also praised. There are, of course, recommendations and I have instructed the defence staff to examine the indications of Transparency. The method of measuring can make a difference. I have also asked for a proposal to be made with the necessary actions in this regard. For the sake of completeness, I can add that both the defence staff and myself will be present at the presentation and discussion of that report in the Flemish Parliament on 17 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can conclude from that that it is a little too early for a final reaction to that report. I assume that you will give that reaction after the colloquium of 17 February. I think it is very interesting to come back to that after that. Once again, I would like to stress that the defence has come out quite well, but I believe that the recommendations made need to be examined. I think it would be very useful to include them and, if necessary, to make some adjustments in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u7	Madam President, Minister, according to recent figures, approximately 90% of the military's positions were held by a staff member. The 10 per cent shortage of staff would be due to the retirement of many staff members. Especially for technical functions, Defence would find it difficult to recruit young people. It is mainly the medical component and the land component that suffer most from the shortage of staff, as retirements continue to decline. Minister, in future recruitments, will particular attention be paid to more technical functions to fill the gap?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u8	Madam President, Ms Jadin, for 2016, 19% of volunteers, 50% of non-commissioned officers and 21% of officers will be recruited in technical fields, representing 204 places out of a total of 700 recruitments. Fifty-three per cent of officers choose their trades during their candidacy and not during recruitment. These figures are the result of the balance to be struck between the needs of the Defence as a whole and the available budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, linguistic balance in National Defence is important to my group. In addition, it is in this sense that, during the previous parliamentary term, the Parliamentary Working Group made a series of recommendations aimed, inter alia, at improving the learning of our two national languages in the army. Therefore, what was not my astonishment when I became aware of a course offer, in 2016, from the Aircraft Recognition Competence Centre. I quote: "The courses are given in Dutch if there are only Dutch-speaking participants. In case of participation of Francophones, the course will be given in English." Minister, how do you explain that a course offer made by your department is only offered in Dutch or English? What is the current policy regarding the use of languages in such courses? Do you not believe that such an invitation is likely to discourage the other linguistic community from participating in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u10	Madam Chair, Mr. Pirlot, the Aircraft Recognition Competence Centre is part of the artillery battalion, which, as you know, is a Dutch-speaking unilingual unit. The Centre provides statutory courses for artillery battalion personnel and non-statutory courses for all Defence personnel. In accordance with the legislation in force, statutory training is given in the mother tongue of the pupils and therefore, in this case, in Dutch. With regard to non-statutory training, article 22 of the Act of 30 July 1938 concerning the use of languages in the army provides that courses are given in the language of the unit, namely, in this case, in Dutch. The artillery battalion wanted to comply with language legislation, but offered the opportunity to take courses in English. The use of this language is timely given the international context and the specific terminology. Each participant in the course receives, at the beginning of the course, a document on terminology in which technical terms are translated into three languages: Dutch, French and English. Over the past two years, fifteen Francophone students have taken the course in English, and all have succeeded. The experience is therefore positive not only as regards the organisation of the course, but also as to how the course is delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u11	Minister, thank you. I recall a previous question in which I was told, at the MR level, that there was no need to convene the parliamentary working group to follow up on the recommendations because everything was settled and everything was going best in the best of the worlds. I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u12	Recently you published a proposal to offer soldiers in the Belgian army of the future only temporary contracts of eight years. In this way you wish to deal with the problem of too old soldiers and too old staff. After eight years, a number of soldiers could move on to a position on the staff or in a job as a specialist. The vast majority of them would have to leave the Department of Defense. You would help in the search for a new job, among other things by turning them into policeman, guard or guard at a private firm. Ex-military could be given priority in selection procedures in government jobs. Is it legally possible to give ex-military priority to selection procedures in transition jobs? Have you researched the possibility of retraining these soldiers into a police officer, a guard or a guard? Do you have an insight into the demand for these functions and the supply that the DOD can offer? Do you have an estimate of the cost of such retrainings? Are you considering retraining ex-military to a wider range of bottleneck professions? Have you discussed this proposal with the trade unions? If so, what is their position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u13	During your presentation of the Strategic Plan, Minister, you referred to your intention to reduce the impact of staff on the budget from 78.5% to 48.3%. You want to achieve this by drastically rejuvenating the armed forces and reducing the number, by a new military statute that could last for a minimum of five and a maximum of eight years and by offering them employment in other sectors. Personally, I think that is a very good approach to this issue. If we want to motivate young people aged 18, 19 or 20 to take on an eight-year job, it is obviously essential that they get a perspective on what happens when they are 25, 26 or 27 years old and have to return to the labour market. You're also Minister of Public Service. So it's gonna be easy to talk to your colleague. It is important to create a clear framework for military personnel who can change jobs in the public sector after their eight-year contractual period. We are thinking primarily of the police, the justice system and the prison system. How will you encourage the transition? How will you facilitate the measure? How will you guide them to make the switch? After all, a soldier is not a police inspector tomorrow. It is important that we examine how military workers who have served for eight years can be attractive to the private labour market. Will this also be attractive with incentives and additional training, or will you conclude agreements with certain sectors, such as surveillance firms, which give preference to ex-military? Will you assume some kind of commitment or will you commit yourself with those young people to a result commitment to later employment? Minister, it is also important that we make it clear that the status of limited duration, which has already been introduced in the past, will be evaluated in good time and that lessons will be drawn from this evaluation. Do you have a view on whether military personnel covered by that statute today indicate how and when they want to switch to another job? It goes without saying that this is a sensitive issue. I therefore assume that you are also consulting with the trade unions in this area and that you are also organising an international benchmarking exercise for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u14	Madam President, Minister, without repeating the words of my predecessors who have clearly defined the problem, I would like to say that the project to rejuvenate the cadres of the army is very ambitious. He asked a series of questions, since careers would be limited to eight years. Will the age limit for applying to the Defence be lowered? Today, this limit is set at 35 years. The question of internal mobility also arises. You are certainly in a position to understand this, given that you have, through the Public Service and Defence, brought together the elements in order to best organize this internal mobility within the CPS. I am also thinking of the opportunities that could be presented tomorrow to these young military personnel in private positions, as my predecessors have said, both in the field of security, but also, as I have read and heard, in crafts. These conversions are possible. How are you going to handle this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u15	Mr Minister, during the previous legislature, Parliament approved adjustments to the military statute, including the creation of the limited duration (BDL), which entered into force on 1 January 2014. This statute makes it possible for young people up to 26 to join the army for eight years. The aim of the adjustment was to reduce the average age of the military to ensure the employability of the units. This is also one of the priorities of your strategic plan for the period 2020-2030. So it is an important element. I have the following questions, Minister. A month ago, you communicated about this. What new aspects have been added to the statute for a limited period of time? What are the new cases? How many soldiers have already made use of the statute? How many of these are volunteers? The follow-up to other sectors after the Staff Regulations have been completed is also important. There is internal and external mobility. How do you see internal mobility to other sectors? Minister for the Interior Jambon announced, following the key tasks debate, that the new Directorate for Surveillance and Protection would be strengthened by 1 600 people. 1 220 of these would come from the BDL statute. Since the BDL statute has only been in existence for two years, I wonder how these 1 220 people can be delivered to the new Directorate of Surveillance and Protection. Another important point is making the job of military attractive. This should also include external mobility, the private sector. How do you see that? What guidance is planned in this respect? Finally, the policy paper states that there will be an evaluation of the adapted military statutes, together with the trade unions. An international benchmarking will also be carried out. What is the status of consultations and international benchmarking? When will Parliament receive the results of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I could refer you to the reply I gave to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez at the plenary session on 10 September 2015. I'm of good will, so we'll get on with this. The BDL Statute has been in place since 31 December 2013. I did not make any changes to that statute. The statute was created as a necessary instrument for rejuvenating the armed forces. Since 2014, soldiers have only been recruited under the BDL statute. On 1 January 2016, 765 soldiers under the Staff Regulations were employed, of which 702 were in the staff category of the volunteers. At present we are looking at the possible flow to public office and to security functions, for example in the police or in the private sector. A number of studies are also under way. It is then about the equalisation of diplomas and possible training which makes this easier. Mr Van Mechelen, we are working towards the private sector and bottlenecks. It is our intention to actively contribute to a flowing possibility. However, there will not be any commitment to results towards the contracted BDLS, but a commitment to resources. The transition to the security corps to be set up, on which Mr Yüksel is allusion, is part of the potential future flow opportunities for BDL. Today we are looking at how we can phase out these 1 220 functions in time for ex-military people. After all, by 2020 at the earliest, the first military BDL Defence will leave by this route. We are looking at how we can fit a sleeve to that, all in view of the rapid rejuvenation of our defense. I also confirm that the BDL member is eligible for training leave, orientation leave, a training credit and a reclassification bonus during his or her end-of-care period. All these things already exist today; they are foreseen. Since the first ones will be outflowing in 2020, we will need to be ready at that time to be able to offer the accompanying measures effectively. However, there is already a great deal to support people. The BDL member can also benefit from a personalized accompanying programme, organised by the public bodies responsible for vocational reorientation. Defence is taking the necessary initiatives to ensure recognition by the private sector of the training received during the commitment period of the BDL volunteer, some of which are vocational training. Let me give you the example of truck driver, which is a bottleneck profession. I can say that most of our people have a driver's degree, that they are used to finding their own way, that they are used to getting there in time and that they also have notes of how a truck needs to be loaded. They are responsible for this in the army itself. These are all atouts, so to speak, which could allow a smooth private involvement for this particular example. An extension to Defense after an initial contract of eight years will be possible for some of the people recruited under the BDL statute. The number of extensions will, of course, depend on the needs of the Defence Department at that time. During the first phase of their career, the military BDL will be largely deployed in operational functions. The requested benchmarking with abroad has not yet been completed. This is in my policy paper for 2016. Today is 27 January and calling for the results of that benchmarking is a bit premature, so to speak. In any case, the benchmarking has not yet been completed, nor has the evaluation been completed. So it has not yet been discussed with the representatives of our employees. However, we have listed with them a whole range of other matters for which we have now drawn up a plan to discuss them. Finally, I would like to point out that the law of 30 August 2013 establishing a military career of limited duration stipulates that the volunteer applicant, that is, the BDL soldier, cannot have reached the age of 27 years by 31 December of the year of its incorporation. In other words, when you want to volunteer in Defence, the age limit is 26 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I note that there is indeed work being done on the follow-up to the Statute and the problems involved. One of the concerns is, of course, that when people enter temporary jobs, they know that this has ended at some point. They then expect to find work elsewhere at the end of this short career or to have a possibility of retraining or training. That's what we've been working on, I'll write it down. It is clear to us that, given the inflow rates and the fact that people are losing weight in the meantime, it is important to describe the job of military as best as possible. The same goes for the offer, to get enough candidates for the Defense Department. If this is not the case and is not streamlined with your colleague in charge of civil service, there is a risk that there will be too few candidates in the long term. This can, for example, be because there is not enough supply to evolve into other functions. Of course, this must be linked to the people and to the legal possibilities. I still have a personal thought about young people's expectations. They start with a temporary position at the Department of Defense and receive a salary. In many cases, the transition to a new job, as listed in my questions, will lead to a perhaps lower wage in the future. It is important to give this information when opening up the vacancy; it is important to clarify and not create too high expectations that cannot be fulfilled. You yourself set the date of 2020 for a first transition. In doing so, you will be faced with a number of disappointed people who will no longer be able to fulfil the function.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u18	Madam President, I would like some additional information. Firstly, as Mr Van Mechelen replied, we are clear about the fact that we are committing resources to the new military, but not a commitment to results. Secondly, the wage is, of course, dependent on what the market is asking for at the time and what supply can be provided. Thirdly, the BDL Statute provides that the volunteer or petty officer with that status can choose to leave the Defense Department from his fifth year if he finds a good job at that time. It is therefore clear today, in the sense that we will be recruiting for eight years without guarantee afterwards, but that there will be additional support measures to find a job. Here's what's important. I told you, some of the military will be able to build a further career with the Defense Department. This is mainly about maintaining the know-how that people have built up. Of course, this will not apply to everyone, because there is a need for operational people and few compromises are possible there. That takes precedence in the whole, especially since the Defense Department is going to get seriously smaller in numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u19	Minister, I agree with your reasoning. We do not always agree, but we do not so much disagree on the fundamentals and on this point. The main focus is effective in providing people with the right perspective and the right retraining. We must also learn lessons from the past, when such a procedure was launched, but it proved unsuccessful. We must learn from the past. If I am right, in the past only seven or eight people have moved to another framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u20	I'm going to speak out of mind, because I don't know the exact figures, but it was significantly higher than those small numbers. We have learned a number of lessons from the past, where such a procedure can or cannot be successful if it is actively pursued. Indeed, in the past, a number of attempts have been made to actively transfer people to other services. For example, the proximity proved to be very important. Jobs offered locally were much more popular than jobs in Brussels, to give just one example. We have therefore made an evaluation of this and on this basis we are working on it, with contacts with the VDAB, FOREM and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u21	Minister, thank you for your reply, but I have a few reservations. At a time when a career of 40 to 45 years does not actually exist with the same employer, I believe that this statute will come in time to be attractive. So I don't think we need cold feet. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the start of international benchmarking. I think this is very important, including with regard to wages. For example, one of the attractive elements for soldiers serving in the U.S. military is that they are particularly well rewarded for that. Thirdly, on one point, I disagree with you, and you say that the vision must be ready by 2020, because the first ones will be out. I'd turn it around. I think we should be ready as soon as possible to facilitate recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u22	Mr Van Mechelen, I mentioned that the first ones started in 2014, so from 2019 onwards, the first can leave us at their own request. I have actually only replied to the comments made by those who believe that benchmarking should have been completed by now. I prefer to have a good benchmarking and I want to be done with that when the need is high. Take it from me that we continue to work on this. I would like to say the following about the recruitments. I do not know the exact figure by heart, but we note that for every job we offered, there was a serious number of candidates. Many people are disappointed because they could not be recruited. So the attraction is still there. At the last meeting of this committee, I also mentioned that the challenge will be to make the perspective effective enough. As far as wages are concerned, here's what I'm gonna do. The point is that we want to recruit young people to put them in surgery. From the moment they are deployed in an operation, it becomes really interesting financially. That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u23	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers to some of the questions we were asking ourselves. I agree with you, of course, and above all with my colleague Van Mechelen. If the goal is to rejuvenate managers to strengthen the operational component, given the new conditions, they need to be very attractive. Attractiveness is also measured by its financial aspect. I also appreciate the enormous challenge ahead of you, and I imagine that it will have to be implemented quickly enough to facilitate conversion. Cooperation with the Regions, for the competences which concern them, is important. They could also play a role as facilitators for the conversion offers of military personnel whose technical training is excellent. Synergies can exist. I shall carefully observe the implementation of this conversion plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u24	Minister, I thank you in turn for the answer. I believe that we absolutely must regard this as an opportunity. If we want to achieve the ambition to reduce age, the proposed measures are an important instrument for this. External and internal mobility is important to make the profession of military appeal. I understand from your reply that from 2020 onwards, the first people with the BDL Statute will be made available to the Security Corps. It is also important that there is work being done on the equalisation of diplomas and the mentoring of people in the process of moving. The benchmark has been announced for 2016. It must be ready as soon as possible to coordinate policies. As the retirement wave will be at its peak in 2018-2019, the system will have to be fully on track by then, so that soldiers who wish to do so can easily be transferred to the private sector, to the public sector, and especially to the police. I was surprised, given the current demand for security, that we have to wait so long before support can be given to the Security Corps. Finally, Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are simply pursuing the policy on the BDL Statute and that there will be no further changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u25	Mr. Yüksel, the Security Corps will start up faster than our BDLs can outflow. The BDL Statute will offer military personnel the option of flowing directly to the Security Corps, where they will be able to do similar work as they have learned in the army. We are now considering whether, in the short term, in the start-up phase of the Security Corps, due to the outflow of other than BDLS, we can increase the recruitment of young people and thus speed up the rejuvenation of Defense itself. Do you understand? That's also an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u27	We're studying that. This is also the subject of political consultation and consultation with the unions. We have formal and informal contacts with the unions. We try to raise these elements with them on a regular basis. That way we want to find a consensus. We want an accelerated rejuvenation. That is the objective. How can we achieve this? How can we continue to help the military, who may not be as operational as others, in a new career? With the security force one is actually outside of Defense but in a similar industry. There are also future prospects other than purely military careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u28	Madam President, Minister, on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2016 included the Belgian operational commitments of National Defence for 2016 – while we are still waiting for your strategic plan. This topic was briefly discussed in this committee some 15 days ago, but I would like to come back to it in order to obtain a little more precise and detailed answers. Minister, what operations will Belgium take part in in 2016, whether in the framework of the European Union, NATO or the UN? How many Belgian soldiers will be deployed abroad in 2016 and what components will they belong to? What will be the budget for these operations for 2016? Do you still have, for example, an emergency provision to finance any operation not provided for in this framework? What guidelines do you intend to give for our country's 2016 operational deployment? What will be the coherence with our international presence at the diplomatic level and with development cooperation (i.e. the traditional 3D: defence, diplomacy and development)?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u29	Minister, on 11 December 2015, the Council of Ministers approved the operational deployment plan of Defence for 2016. This plan has already been published in the press. However, we would have liked to have seen the full operational deployment plan. What are the main lines of that plan? What are the priority regions and priority tasks on which the Belgian Defence is committed? What are the main regions where we will employ people? I read in the first communication that the budget is being increased, from EUR 63 million to EUR 69 million, which means an increase of almost 10%. The use of military personnel is also increased from 600 to 700 men, which is also an increase. However, what is the total cost of military deployment for the operational deployment plan 2016? I have one last question. Over the past few months and weeks, the Committee has often discussed the alignment of defence policy with foreign policy and vice versa. I do not see that as an extension, but as two complementary elements. I assume, of course, but to what extent are the priorities you set for the operational plan also priorities for our foreign policy? The main aim of international action and our contribution must be to prevent conflicts and to ensure fair sharing. This should also serve to put Belgium internationally on the map. Have you discussed this with your foreign minister? What are the biggest and most important parameters in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u30	Mr Pirlot, Mr Yüksel, it is true that agreements on the 2016 Plan of Operations were made within the government on 11 December 2015. Forgive me for not announcing it earlier, but through all the other files, like the Strategic Plan, the file has gotten a little snowy. We now have copies of the full plan, which may be distributed. We will add the text to the report later, so that there is a complete overview of the operations. I'll explain to you the ideas that guide these choices. Within the NATO framework, Belgium will participate substantially in the Readiness Action Plan and the Active Endeavour counter-terrorism operation in a maritime setting and on board the AWACS aircraft. Defence will also participate in NATO Defence Capacity Building and Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. At the same time, Belgium will participate, within the framework of the NATO Response Force (NRF), in the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) with all components, including within the Standing NATO Groups. Within the framework of the European Union, Defence will participate in EUNAVFOR Med (Operation Sophia) and will continue its contribution to the EU Training Mission in Mali until the end of the mandate of this operation. It is planned to extend the contribution to the European Union Security Sector Reform Mission (EUSEC) in the Democratic Republic of the Congo until the end of the operation's mandate. Within the UN framework, Defence will participate in the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) in Lebanon and, in the Golan, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) and the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO). Belgium will participate again in 2016 in coalition air operations against Daesh in support of Iraqi ground forces. As part of international and bilateral support, Belgium will assist Tunisia in the fight against terrorism. The exact content of this commitment is being developed. Belgian Defence is also constantly ready for the missions of evacuation of nationals, an operation conducted under the direction of the SPF Foreign Affairs. It should be noted that an effort is also being studied in the Sahel. As soon as that is completed, I will normally make a proposal to the Council of Ministers next week. The equivalent of 700 full-time persons will have to be carried out for the current scheduled operations in 2016. Staff of the four components will be deployed. The overall cost of 2016 operations is estimated at 125 million euros gross, or 69 million euros net. These expenditures will be covered by the Defence Budget Commitment program. In the event that the appropriations entered prove insufficient after budgetary control, a redistribution to the basic allocation concerned will be carried out within the envelope of the department. The guidelines that ensure the consistency of our international presence are reflected in the analysis of the safe environment that the government approved in May 2015. Mr Yüksel, I can add that we sit together at a PolMil meeting on a weekly basis, together with the Department of Foreign Affairs. Every proposal we make has been discussed and agreed with that department in the first instance. In principle, I ask and I always get the first support from the Department of Foreign Affairs, before making any further proposals. It would not make much sense to put forward proposals contrary to the general foreign policy of the Member States. In the past, as you know, we have always gone into questions to explain the operations in the committee behind closed doors, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u31	Minister, thank you. As far as development cooperation is concerned, have contacts also been made with the department of Minister De Croo? Mr De Croo is also Deputy Prime Minister and his representatives are present at every IKW where this is discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A budget of 120 million euro gross or 70 million euro net is an important contribution. In my opinion, the main lines of the 2016 operational plan are good and allow us to make our contribution internationally. I have two further questions. As far as the 2016 operational plan is concerned, combating terrorism is an important aspect. The EUR 400 million allocated by the government has not yet been allocated. However, I assume that you will claim part of the cake, also in the context of that important challenge. A second question relates to our participation in the coalition against Daesh. Yesterday, the Dutch House of Representatives gave the green light to bomb in Syria. We are co-partner of the Dutch and you stated yesterday in the press that if there is a question you will look at it within the government. Are you expecting that question very soon? After all, we are sitting there with a partner who will be carrying out bombings in Syria next day. We're gonna be in that story for a piece. We can also turn things around. It's a government decision and a possible question from the international coalition is already going to be considered proactively. That's a question, too. I would have liked some clarification from you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u33	Perhaps the Minister would like to answer your first question, but your second question is put here under point 9 by a number of fellow Members. I suggest we treat them then.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u34	Over 400 million euros, there is a deliberation within the government. So I am not going to make any statements about this, but it seems clear to me that defence has a contribution to make to the fight against terrorism and that on that basis we will be able to submit a number of dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u35	It was a good try.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u36	I'm doing my job as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u37	I'll have the table circulated. I would just like to point out that if the sum is added, that will not be right. In addition to a rule, TBC of to be confirmed stands for the commitment in the Sahel with a budget of 15 million euros, which goes to the government. The total will therefore not match the individual figures. I would like to add this for the report, in order to avoid any misunderstandings about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u38	Minister, the Lagland training camp in Arlon is well known both in Belgium and abroad. The barracks are currently largely occupied by refugees, which in substance is no problem, except that there are 970 of them and that the Red Cross would like to make this centre a permanent centre. If the centre becomes permanent with such an influx of refugees, this would pose a serious problem for military personnel who would probably no longer be able to train the 400 to 500 students in good conditions annually. So, Minister, how do you envisage the future of the Lagland training camp in general and of the barracks in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u39	Minister, you recently presented your Defence Strategic Plan for 2030. One particular point has caught my attention: the Medical Component that you are considering merging with the other components. You are liquidating it de facto, while it is essential for the smooth running of missions abroad but also for certain missions of assistance to the Nation, which are also important for our group. This announcement could potentially have a serious impact on the future of the Nivelles military pharmacy that our commission visited on October 7. On that occasion, we were able to see the quality and extent of the services it provides to the army. So, Minister, what will be the direct consequences of the potential disappearance of the Medical Component that you seem to be announcing for the Nivelles military pharmacy? What future do you envisage for this military pharmacy in your strategic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u40	Minister, during your presentation in committee on 13 January, you said in particular that the future strategic plan will have to "ensure regional balance in terms of the geographical distribution of neighbourhoods, staff and capacities". On this basis, I would therefore like to ask you about the information recently relayed by the press, which refers to planned changes in certain components and assignments within the military camp in Marche-en-Famenne. In fact, Lieutenant-Colonel BEM Luc Hanset, Deputy Commander of the Light Brigade, spoke on this subject, evoking a future integration of new components within the current battalions (lancers, Ardennes fighters, etc.).), in the form of inter-armed tactical groups, special operations command comprising special forces, ranger/para-commando-type units, armoured logistics capability and latest generation equipment. He also announced that one or two marine rifle companies could soon be integrated into the Marche camp as part of the development of marine infantry, in partnership with the Netherlands. Minister, is the integration of the new components mentioned in the Camp de Marche-en-Famenne relevant? More broadly, when will you make your overall decisions on the future of the various military districts of our country, particularly in the province of Luxembourg? Under what criteria do you intend to make these decisions? Will these be taken in consultation with military unions and local authorities? For example, in Arlon, there is a trap-shoe village for training in urban guerrillas. This camp is used in particular by the Grand-Ducal Army. It is my responsibility that a financial partnership could be envisaged with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Do you plan to explore this trail? Have you had contact with your Grand-Ducal counterpart about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u41	Mr Dallemagne apologizes. His question No. 8900 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u42	Gentlemen, the framework for the Defence Strategic Plan has just been approved. I presented what we decided two weeks ago. However, it still needs to be implemented and concrete measures still need to be determined. As I mentioned in the Defence Committee on 13 January 2016, it is therefore premature to speculate on the future structure of the Components. The future of Defence neighbourhoods is not yet on the agenda and has yet to be presented to the government. Stakeholders will be consulted in a timely manner. Medical support will continue to be an essential cornerstone of Defence operations. It is planned to keep the number of military personnel in the Medical Component – while the army will increase from 32,000 to 25,000 – which remains very important for the future of Defence. Finally, I come to the creation of a Red Cross centre in Arlon. The functional capacity of Camp Bastin was 1036 places. Following the provision of part of the neighbourhoods by the Red Cross, the camp's functional housing capacity, consisting of accommodation for both training staff and for use in Belgian or foreign military exercises, is now 598 places. This figure differs from the number of asylum-seekers currently present in the centre, because the standards of occupation specific to the Red Cross are not the same as those of the Defence. Some blocks of previously decommissioned housing have been reactivated by the Red Cross. No exercise had to be cancelled as a result of this reduction in housing capacity at Camp Bastin, and this is important. In conclusion, the establishment of the Red Cross Centre has no significant impact on training and has only limited influence on the organization of military exercises in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u43	Minister, I take it that things will be continued in the future and I am pleased to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u44	I thank the Minister for his replies, which appear to be positive with regard to the military pharmacy. I hope this will be confirmed in the future. As you have just said, the quality of this military pharmacy within the Medical Component is important. I'm worried again about the pout you just made. I find your answer positive, but your moth is worrying. I really insist. You know the quality of the services that are offered. You had the opportunity to visit her. I hope we keep this flagship in Nivelles. I draw your attention to the fact that concern is beginning to point at the base of Beauvechain. Various noises are running. I'll have the opportunity to ask you again. It is a quality basis that deserves to be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u45	Madam President, I would like the report to state that I have not said anything about neighbourhoods and that no decision has yet been taken. I'm very firm. I'm not talking about it today. I talked about the dimensions, and the medical support that is very important. I didn't talk about neighborhoods, Nivelles, Beauvechain, or anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u46	I confirm that the Minister has said absolutely nothing, neither about the future of Marche, nor about the future of Arlon, nor about any contacts with the Grand-Ducal authorities for possible funding. I do not have your optimism about the strategic plan announced with great reinforcement of drums and trumpets! We're still in the sketch. To make a parallel with urban planning, perhaps we will soon have the preliminary project, then perhaps a little later the project, before finally the permit is issued subject to the government. The proof is that a number of colleagues from the majority still told me of their shock at the presentation of what was announced as the strategic plan, telling me that some aspects had not been agreed within the government, including the possible purchase of Patriot missiles. Finally, I regret the artistic blurry that still prevails over the future of our barracks, which is obviously far from reassuring the staff who work there. Barracks that close obviously have negative economic consequences for the region concerned. I wouldn't want a campaign slogan I heard: "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" become "Jobs! Jobs! Lost!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u47	Mr Dallemagne's question is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u48	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk to you about Nivelles, Beauvechain, Arlon, Marche, Amay, Oud-Heverlee, Spa, Neder-Over-Heembeek, or Coxide, and I am going through with it. Don't worry, I'll try to get a little bit higher, like the height needed to draft a strategic plan and the height in which the greenhouse gases that our industries, our army and our citizens emit every day escape. In an article published in June 2014 in the Belgian Military Review, Captain Pieter-Jan Parrein writes: "Climate change is considered a threat multiplier. It does not in itself lead to conflicts but it can fuel local tensions by its negative consequences on the supply of food, water and energy." It also refers to the fact that Defence produced around 340,000 tonnes of CO2 in 2013, representing a fraction of Belgium's total CO2 emissions. The inevitable climate change, even if the international community manages to limit warming to 1.5°C as agreed at COP21, will have an inevitable impact on Defence and its future. The global and binding agreement reached on 12 December in Paris puts an end to the absurd exemption that the armed forces of the world have enjoyed so far in accounting for their greenhouse gas emissions. Indeed, the Kyoto Protocol explicitly requested that the military impact not be recorded, although the Paris Agreement allows for its accounting or not. I hope you're going to count it. We know that these programmes are a fact in Belgium but also in theatres of operations abroad. Minister, is Defence working on a plan to decarbonize its operations, either as part of your strategic plan or not? If so, when will it be presented to us? Climate change will lead to a drastic melting of ice in the Arctic, which will make it possible to sail in these areas in the summer. This will eventually open up a maritime route to Asia from the north of the globe, creating opportunities for the port of Antwerp. This one is particularly important to your party. It is a strategic area for our country. Our future frigates (in collaboration with the Dutch navy, if any) will therefore have to be equipped with technical tools to navigate in these icy waters and thus allow the security and the serviceability of these maritime routes. Minister, is Defence already incorporating this new policy into its frigate renovation plans? I know you're going to buy two; it's on the list of races that you presented two weeks ago. Will your future strategic plan take into account this "threat amplifier" effect of climate change? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u49	Madam Chair, Mr. Hellings, within Defence, the commitment to the environment is enshrined in the Defence Environmental Charter. It clearly states that Defence wishes to avoid and limit the direct and indirect environmental impacts of its missions and activities by systematically integrating environmental protection into its plans, programs, orders and directives, particularly during operations and exercises. This charter is the basis of Defence's 2013-2017 environmental policy plan, which has been in existence for three years. In this plan, several targets and indicators relate to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Emphasis is placed on rationalising the infrastructure, i.e. rational use of energy, limiting CO2 emissions from equipment and promoting sustainable mobility. With regard to infrastructure, Defence's 2013-2017 target is to reduce its CO2 emissions from infrastructure consumption by 5%. This is a more ambitious objective than elsewhere. Typically, procurement records for new CO2-emitting equipment such as aircraft, ships and other vehicles take into account fuel consumption and/or emissions as criteria for awarding the contract, often using ecoscores. In addition, for each acquisition, the Guide to Sustainable Procurement is consulted to determine what other criteria may or should be imposed on the new equipment to be acquired. For example, the recent replacement of a large number of old commercial vehicles with a leasing contract will have a significant impact on fuel consumption and subsequently on emissions. To the extent possible, Defence considers these same criteria with respect to renovation files. As for the promotion of sustainable mobility, the goal in 2017 is that 35% of Defence personnel travel in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u50	Mr Minister, you have not answered an essential question, will Defence account for its CO2 emissions in Belgium's overall balance sheet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u52	I invite you to do so because these are programs like the others. Whether CO2 is emitted by Defence or by any other actor in Belgium, these emissions have an impact in terms of climate change. In addition, the military is now present in the streets, particularly in Brussels, including on the Grand Place. Their presence has been an opportunity for us to realize that some of the Defence vehicles are old-fashioned. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the list of races that you presented to us two weeks ago contains extremely expensive equipment. I am thinking in particular of aircraft intended to replace the F-16s. Of course, I am not asking for the new aircraft to operate on bioethanol. However, investing in such expensive equipment will make it impossible for you to acquire useful equipment such as vehicles for the transportation of military personnel. Such investments are, in my view, strategically ineffective. On the other hand, the real issue that your strategic plan should have addressed is climate change and all its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u53	Minister, my question has been redirected to you. Despite the large international coalition that has been operating militarily in Iraq since September 2014, only a few countries have so far taken the initiative to extend the airstrikes to Syria. However, following the vote on the resolution of 20 November by the UN Security Council, which authorizes UN Member States to take all necessary measures to combat the Islamic State, the Western Heads of State and the Russian President have publicly opted for a comprehensive solution to combat the Islamist terrorist organisation over the entire territory it occupies. Minister, what is Belgium's position on the possibility of participation in a global coalition that would intervene militarily in all the territories still occupied by the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u54	Madam President, Minister, the US Secretary of Defense has announced that a summit will soon be held in Brussels in the context of the fight against IS. After previous meetings in Paris, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Australia, the US wants to sit down with the Gulf States in particular. Firstly, will our country participate in this summit? If so, who will represent our country? If so, will the fact that our country is a coalition partner in Iraq but not in Syria have an impact on any participation? Would you mind explaining that for me? Secondly, in what context is the US organising this summit in Brussels? Is our country involved in the organisation of this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, mijnheer Vandenput, Belgium is taking part, alongside some 60 states, in the international coalition against Daesh and in the decision-making process of this coalition. It acts with its means, in accordance with the decisions taken by the Government. Belgium has already committed itself militarily to actions in Iraq, at the invitation of the Iraqi government. Compared to Syria, where various members of the coalition intervene militarily, the Belgian government will decide in due course on possible military participation. At the coalition level, a future engagement in Libya or elsewhere is not on the agenda at the moment. As part of the escort of the French aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle by the frigate Léopold I, Belgium received a right of prior information from the French authorities concerning possible strikes and their location. Belgium was kept informed of the planning and execution of the missions by the presence of a liaison officer on board the aircraft carrier and by a liaison officer at the staff in Paris. As regards the Belgian F-16 intervention zone in the fight against Daesh as early as July 2016, I refer you to the answers to questions Nos 6653, 7928 and 7933. When Belgium takes over, it will operate in accordance with the mandate given by the Council of Ministers. Mr Vandenput, the fact that our country does not operate above Syria has no impact on our participation in the meetings. For Belgium, the use of military personnel today is geographically limited to Iraq and Jordan. However, our country is also active in several of the coalition's major non-military initiatives such as repeling the threat posed by the Foreign Terrorist Fighters and blocking Daesh's funding. Belgium is certainly not an inferior Member, quite the contrary. As regards the planned coalition summit in Belgium, I will represent Belgium. The meeting will take place in the framework of a meeting of the North Atlantic Council, at the level of the Ministers of Defence, but is therefore not linked to NATO. It's important to make that distinction. The summit will take place at NATO headquarters because there will be many defence ministers who are also involved in the international coalition. However, it is not a NATO meeting, it is a meeting of the international coalition. Our country is not involved in the organisation of this meeting. It's the coalition she's organizing, with support from NATO headquarters. I would like to reiterate what I said yesterday, in particular that participation in the coalition is decided by the countries on the basis of their own rules or commitments. Ours are determined at government level. No question has been asked by the coalition, so we do not need to discuss whether or not to operate over Syria today. If that question is asked, it will be a government decision. Since the first start for operations over Iraq has been a Parliament resolution during a transitional period, it is clear that I, together with my colleague for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for such decisions, will be debating with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u56	Minister, thank you for your clarification and for putting into context all the decisions made in the past. The coalition we are participating in in Iraq seems to be bearing fruit because, in many territories, especially in northern Iraq, the Islamic State is in sharp decline. I also hear that an invitation could soon be issued by the United States regarding the opportunity to expand the coalition in Syria. Do you have any idea of the proposed deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u58	I'll come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm glad to hear that the coalition is organizing the business. I think it is good to confirm once again that our commitment is Belgium's commitment. Should the question arise to intervene in Syria too, you will consult with Parliament again or share information. I am satisfied with that answer because then we are aware of what is happening on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u60	Madam President, Minister, at the moment your cabinet would examine whether there is a cheaper alternative to the NH-90 devices that provide rescue operations at sea and inland from Koksijde's base. There would also be a discussion on defence passenger aircraft and the possibility of cheaper alternatives would also be examined in this area. In the meantime, we have seen this in the plans you described. Is it true that both investigations are ongoing? Are there any other pistes under investigation for privatisation by the Defense Department? If so, which one? What is the time frame for such investigations? Recently, Defense purchased four NATO Frigate Helicopters, NH-90 devices, to take over SAR assignments from the Seaking in the future. The investigation into a cheaper alternative to the NH-90 suggests privatisation. What's the status? Does the DOD intend to make military available to a private partner? Will this assignment be fully taken over by the civil or private sector if necessary? Finally, is there any future assignments for the new NH-90 helicopters? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u61	Madam President, Mr Top, tasks for which no military expertise is required can indeed either be entrusted to civilian personnel in Defence or outsourced. The tasks that meet this description and will therefore be investigated. It is much wider than what you said... are mainly in the domain of supporting business processes and general or local support. At the end of last year, the core took a decision on the size of the workforce on which Defence will stabilise, the well-known 25 000 people. In the context of the further development of its implementation, a number of studies will be carried out, including on SAR and in the framework of human resources transport or the white fleet. The SAR study will include all realistic scenarios. Mr Top, I would like to make the following point. You are immediately talking about privatisation and this puts the focus on privatisation. I've asked the Defense Staff to investigate how that happens abroad and how we do it here. Ensuring search and rescue is a government task and that task is entrusted to the Defense Department. In that sense, it seems logical to me that we should carry out this task, but in the most efficient way possible. The NH-90 devices, the NATO Frigate Helicopters, are essentially designed to complete the entire system, frigate with us, destroyer with others. So yes, it's planned for the future. I also said on 13 January that the NH-90 will be further equipped and developed in order to do what they need to do. So I am not giving a preliminaries on the way in which search and rescue will be carried out, in addition to the fact that all realistic slopes will be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u62	Minister, I have received an answer to most of the questions. My questions were tabled earlier than when you gave your explanation of the defence plan. The starting point is, of course, to do the most efficient search and rescue, taking into account the parameters we know today. A question wasn't answered. There is concern among the staff about the timing. It also has to do with replacing the Seakings. When will these studies be completed? What next steps do you want to take to get a new organization of search and rescue? That is the question that arises for many people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u63	Mr Top, you have already asked questions about ongoing studies today. The amount of things that are simultaneously in study for implementation is immense. The demand for timing is repeated over and over again. For me, that would be as soon as possible, rather yesterday than today. A number of things take time, and there is also a need for discussions in advance. In this context, I said on 13 January that it is not our intention to cause shock anywhere in the world. We will discuss any decision taken with the people involved, that seems obvious to me, when the time is right. I can lively imagine that anyone who feels well in the chair he sits on today wants to keep that chair. It is our intention to take decisions as soon as possible on the basis of the results of the various studies and to first communicate them to those involved and to consult them with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u64	This is merely a confirmation of, as you yourself said, the prevailing concern. If people are confident that they can stay in their seats, then there is no problem. Some, however, are concerned because the announcement of this defence plan and the rumours about the SAR studies make them fear that the legs are being cut out of their seats. You can't stop that. That's the situation. So, the sooner we clear up this case, the better it will be for the Defense Department, for our search and rescue objectives and, of course, for the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u65	I have a little announcement to make. It's 11:30 now. The Minister may stay until 12:00, but there is another interplay under item 19. Knowing this, anyone can more or less estimate whether it pays to stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u66	Minister, since 18 November, the Belgian Navy ship Leopold I has accompanied the French carrier Charles de Gaulle. What had to become a standard guidance mission before the start of the mission, has not been as standard since the events of 13 November in Paris. The ship Charles de Gaulle has deployed his fighter planes to carry out bombings over Syria against Daesh. During those operations, our Navy ship is standing by to protect the Charles de Gaulle with all its resources. That means that all weapons aboard torpedo rifles are armed to air defence weapons, ready to be launched at the push of a button. Despite the circumstances described above, the personnel on board appear to be working according to the legal provisions in sub-position 2. Part Mode 2 includes the tasks of maintaining order and monitoring. The partial position within which the soldiers work on board is the same as that of soldiers who, figuratively speaking, fill sandbags. Not only is observed during surgery. The carrier is protected, all weapons are loaded, ready for immediate deployment. In view of the increased risks involved in the mission, Part Two seems insufficient to me. In addition, for past operations carried out with at least the same risk derivatives, an increased part-position 3, protection deployment, or even 4, passive armed deployment, was applied. I am referring, among other things, to the operations Atalanta and Unifil. The risks and threats of the current operation seem to me to be at least the same. Belgium participates in the operation. We're in a coalition and his ally of a nation in a war against Daesh. If our Defense is committed to such assignments, the staff must be paid in a proper and just manner in accordance with existing legal provisions. Have you considered increasing the share of the military on board to 3 or 4? Do you think that part-position 2 is a correct representation of the circumstances and safety risks in which the personnel have to work? Were the risk derivatives of the operation reviewed and evaluated after the events in Paris? Is it true that staff on board receive a duty-free sum of EUR 9.92 per day? Is it true that this fee has to be multiplied by the coefficients 2 or 3 if one switches to Part Mode 3 or 4 respectively? What are the amounts, should the entire crew, which normally ran until 2 January, have received Part Three or Four?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u67	The frigate was deployed under the partial mode operational bet, bet outside the deployment zone. That form of deployment is fully consistent with the other analog operations of the Defense Department. The staff of detachment F-16 under Operation Desert Falcon, which was stationed on Jordan's air base, i.e. outside the deployment zone, was reimbursed under the same bet form and by a coefficient 2. Pilots were reimbursed only for the period of their mission over Iraqi territory under the deployment mode operational deployment, active, armed deployment, with a coefficient 5. On the basis of the laws and regulations in force, only the coefficient 2 can be assigned to the form of deployment. The peculiar status attached to form 2, entitles you to a fixed daily allowance of EUR 31.91. This is the result of 9.92 euros times the index 1.6084, multiplied by two because of the coefficient. That's not taxable. In addition, a taxable allowance of 5/1850th of the individual gross annual wager per day, a taxable allowance of earnings at sea per day and a taxable weekend allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u68	I understand that you refer to the legal rules and to the fact that the military on the basis of Jordan have part-position 2. In my opinion, the risk in the operation for the military is higher both on the basis in Jordan and on board the Leopold I than other situations in which Part Two applies. I'd re-evaluate the descriptions for the bet against Daesh and see if there's no higher risk than Part Mode 2 suits the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u69	Mr Minister, in early July 2015, I asked you about the use of the ATCC (Air Traffic Control Center) as part of assistance to their civilian counterparts in Belgocontrol after the closure of Belgian airspace due to an electrical breakdown. In your response, you indicated to me that you had given your department a mandate to review how organizations could cooperate as closely as possible in the area of air navigation, including air traffic control services, air information services, meteorological services, communication, navigation and surveillance services, recruitment, training and education. The results were expected by the end of 2015. Here we are in 2016, can you present these results?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u70	Fernandez Fernandez, indeed, since April 2015, our department has relaunched the study to examine how Defence and Belgocontrol could cooperate as closely as possible. This study was conducted in close collaboration with Belgocontrol. The profitability analysis must meet, inter alia, the following conditions: the maintenance of the current level of benefits while having a positive cost/benefit balance. This year, this analysis is being finalized. There was a meeting between our services two weeks ago. The finalisation of the study is under way and then it will be time to decide. It is therefore premature to comment on the conclusions, but I will not fail to inform you as soon as the study is finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that this announcement will not be like that of the strategic plan: an announcement and then nothing! I'm waiting for you to come back to us and we can have an exchange on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u72	Minister, as you know, we are at the heart of the diplomatic days, which are held each year at the same time. They allow our diplomats to return to Belgium and to be able to participate in several meetings and meetings organised by the services of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on various essential international topics. In previous years, the Minister of Defence participated in such meetings. Given our participation in many missions abroad, have you been consulted during the development of this diplomatic week's program? Do you intend to take part? If so, what topics do you intend to highlight? If not, can you give me the reason? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u73	Mr Crusnière, the organisation of diplomatic days is a prerogative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u74	Mr Minister, I know of course that this is one of his prerogatives. However, I think he also invited you to these days. According to him, you didn't want to take part. I thought you were gonna give me the reason. Indeed, the participation of the Minister of Defence, like that of parliamentarians, is a tradition in this regard. Your answer is somewhat sibyllin. You always plead for a 3D strategy. You had the opportunity to do it in front of diplomats. But you've snobbled these days. That's really unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u75	Mr Crusnière, I can confirm that yesterday morning I took part in a breakfast with the ambassadors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u76	Minister, Belgium has been part of NATO's Baltic Air Police Mission since 7 January 2016. I have a few questions about that. Can you outline a general assessment of the attitude of Russian troops towards our aircraft and those of our NATO counterparts on the east flank? Last year our soldiers were stationed in Poland, now in Estonia. What operational impact does this have for people? Does this affect their safety? What is the cost or estimate of this new mission? What lessons has detachment taught us from previous missions, especially those in Poland, and how are these possible improvements implemented in our mission in Estonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u77	Mr Vandenput, the assessment of the attitude of Russian troops towards our aircraft will be discussed in the Committee on the Succession of Foreign Shipments, which is taking place behind closed doors. That seems obvious to me. Compared to Malbork in Poland in 2015, the airport of Ämari in Estonia, from which we operate today, allows shorter deployment periods to carry out interceptions. Moreover, the base in Ämari is a little better than NATO standards, increasing the security and comfort of our soldiers compared to last year. For the deployment of the F-16 detachment as part of the Enhanced Air Police Mission in 2016, the costs are estimated, I had it distributed earlier, at a total amount of 4.38 million euros gross. I come to your question as to what we learned from previous missions. Previous missions have shown that communication with the Combined Air Operation Center in Uedem is essential. The necessary means of communication are provided to ensure this link and thus to carry out the assignment in all circumstances. It is also the case that in order to allow optimum air traffic management we have also employed Belgian air traffic controllers in Ämari.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u78	Mr Minister, we will indeed follow the first question behind closed doors. I am particularly pleased that our air force is participating in these NATO missions and that we can continue to do so in the future with the new aircraft we will be purchasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u79	Madam President, Minister, reality is catching up with my question, and that is a good thing for the people of Madaya, because in the meantime there is a convoy on the ground. However, I would like to ask you my specific question today because it concerns the expertise that our army has built up in the early 2000s on snowdrops. That is why I am taking up part of my question, because the moment I submitted it, the people in Madaya were starving. The Syrian army and Hezbollah held that city hostage, making the delivery of humanitarian aid very difficult, especially because there were many landmines in the area. Food, drink and electricity were gone and it was reported that the inhabitants even had to eat grass and leaves. The price of a bag of rice, as far as it was left, swung out. It was impossible to get independent reports on the situation in Madaya, but according to the UN, those reports were credible. Meanwhile, there's been a convoy on the scene. Our army has built up special expertise in dropping food from the air with C-130 devices. The technique of food dropping from the air was developed in 2001 during the famine in Benin. For each drop, 40 000 meals can be dropped in packs of 175 to 200 grams and this can be done from a safe height, i.e. 11 000 feet. Each package of 200 grams is sufficient as a food supply for an adult for one day and for a child for three days. That technique is known as snowdrop. By dropping food from the air one reaches just those people who are bad for it. This technique is particularly appropriate in conflict areas where assistance by road is virtually impossible. The big advantage is that one can drop from high altitude, making the C-130 out of range of any air defense. An additional advantage is that it is possible to drop at night and directly at the places where the population is located. Mr Minister, I have a few questions in this regard. My first question was specifically about the situation in Madaya. Today, I can ask you the following. If the UN had not succeeded in getting the convoy on the ground, would it have been possible for Belgium to offer its expertise to the United Nations? How do you evaluate the snowdrop technique? Does our Belgian army still possess that expertise? Can our people be operationally deployed? Are you prepared to investigate whether the United Nations humanitarian aid, a snowdrop over Madaya or over other conflict areas can be implemented? Will you therefore explicitly offer this expertise to the United Nations? Will the A400-M be able to carry out that kind of mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u80	Mrs Lijnen, as you point out, the delivery of humanitarian aid along the road to Madaya has now begun. We are, of course, always prepared, at the request of the government, to examine any question for so-called snowdrops for their operational feasibility and risk performance, but you also know that this is important to us that there is currently no mandate for us to allow operations in Syria. Dropping food packages should be done from medium to low altitude. That is very important and an essential difference from Benin's example, in that there are risks associated with it, specifically in Syria, namely the intensive control of the area by both Syrian and Russian air defence systems. In addition, the technique of snowdrops also ensures a very large distribution of food packages across the terrain which could pose a risk to the landmines in the vicinity of people who wish to be helped. The situation at the time in Benin and the current situation in Syria are completely different. I just want to show you that the DOD effectively has that knowledge and know-how, and will, if necessary, also offer it. As for your question about the A400-M, the suitability for the snowdrops has not yet been studied. At the time, when preparing the cahier, the suitability for it was not a specific requirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I understand what you are saying. It is indeed necessary to ensure the safety of both the people who fly the aircraft and the people on the ground who can use the food packages. They must not be placed in an even more unsafe situation. I agree with that. Maybe we can look at taking the system of snowdrops to other areas where possible. In the past, the system has proved effective. We have not used it for years, but together we will closely monitor the situation in the world. I hope you will be able to use the snowdrops as an active agent in other unsafe areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u82	Madam President, Minister, in The Last Hour of January 11, I could read that you had sold old military equipment, which brings back €5 million to Defence for 2015. The equipment was therefore sold by the Directorate-General for Material Resources (DG MR), responsible for all military and non-military equipment belonging to the army. In this equipment sold, there was a little bit of everything, except sensitive equipment like weapon systems. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. For 2016, have you planned sales of more sensitive equipment such as weapons systems? If so, what type of equipment did they carry? In accordance with the provisions of the Law of 5 August 1991 on the Import, Export, Transit and Combating of Trafficking in Arms, Ammunition and Equipment for Special Purposes in Military or Law Enforcement Use, and Related Technology, have you submitted such reports to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u83	Fernandez Fernandez, in 2016, only the sale of seven Pandur vehicles to Austria and the sale of a limited quantity of ammunition to the Belgian Federal Police are under way. The refinement of the strategic plan will be key to possible future arms and ammunition system sales initiatives in 2016. In the case of sales covered by the provisions of the mentioned law, the Defence transmits its data semi-annually to the Service Licences of the SPF Economy. This service is the central reporting entity to the House for the whole of the federal government in this area. You ask me if I will abide by the law: yes, I respect the law!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u84	Minister, this is already very good news! Thank you for your answers. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Chair that we are still awaiting an opinion from the Defence Committee. The Committee on Amendment of the Rules of Procedure awaits the opinion of this committee to amend the Rules of Procedure with regard to the resale of arms. Could you be careful about it? I know I think I'm a little monomaniac, but that's one of my flaws. I think the subject is important enough to be discussed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u85	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I share your concern. Sometimes we hear certain things in the corridors. I once learned there that Mr Flahaut wanted to sell old F-16 pawns to Pakistan. I am sure that we can find a date in February or March to discuss your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u86	Minister, I understand that you were afraid that Mr. André Flahaut would come back and want to sell F-16s! Let us therefore amend the rules in order to have all our appeasements!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament 8541 by Mr David Clarinval has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u88	Madam President, Minister, my group and I are very concerned. When you presented the major ideas of the strategic plan, nothing appeared on the notion of duty of memory. I fear that this is not a mere oblivion, but that it hides other more ideological and partisan intentions. I have already had the opportunity to question you often about this, especially the Royal Army Museum (RMA). In my last question, which also dealt with memory work and war victims, you again told me about the future of the public interest organizations under your care. As these various files are linked, you waited until all studies were completed before submitting a comprehensive parastatal reform plan to the government. It seems that this thought has come to an end. It was not my astonishment to get to know, by means of the press, your projects which, and even if it only surprises me in the end very little, de facto dismantles the work of memory by instituting it as a purely touristic mission and thus allowing its regionalization. Even if we must not deny the importance and tourist attraction that Defence goods can present – I am thinking for example of the city of Bastogne, which rotates and lives around the memories of our past – this is of course not their only interest. Your proposal to reform the MRA and the Institut des Vétérans (IV-INIG) would be to merge them into a new inter-federal IOP, while the Museum's connections would be partly relocated. Let me therefore be concerned and ask you to present to Parliament without delay your proposed reform in this area and its concrete human consequences and institutional, budgetary, scientific and logistical rights. First of all, it seems to me essential to make an inventory of everything that belongs to the MRA and what is in the various museums. Indeed, if we are aware of an organizational plan, we know little about its content. We believe it is essential to assess Defence's historical and memorial assets before, perhaps, tomorrow, seeing them distributed so as not to say redistributed or redistributed from there across the country. On the other hand, I have learned that valuables have been stolen or resold at derisory prices or that they have become the quasi-property of some. It is unthinkable that goods in our collective history will be treated so lightly! I also learned that, at the end of 2015, in view of the ambush appointment of the Museum's director, 400,000 euros were not committed to the MRA. However, I know that the agents are working in deplorable conditions and that work is needed. Could you give us a few explanations? Moreover, our collective history is also found in our cities, our neighbourhoods, our streets, which are often places of remembrance and recollection to the memory of those who fought to defend our freedoms. I would also like to know your intentions regarding the future of the management of cemeteries or military squares, steles or other forms of urban art whose management now depends on Defence and which, if it were lacking tomorrow, would be the responsibility of cities and municipalities. I will conclude, Mr Minister, by telling you that, through the future of the Royal Army Museum, its antennae and other marks of our past, it is above all for our history, for our collective memory, that of Belgium, that I am deeply concerned. For the PS, it is unthinkable that it is owned by a single Region. By this alone, it would be betraying those who fought under the same flag and with the same motto, union makes the strength, so that today we live in freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u89	Fernandez Fernandez, in pursuance of the Government's agreement, working groups have carried out or are in the process of finalizing reflections on the future, status and place of the institutions under my supervision. Several elements of these files are linked, which is why comprehensive proposals will be presented to the government. All these working groups carry out their work taking into account certain basic assumptions, such as the starting point of the studies and the current regulations and the missions resulting therefrom. For example, service to the client must be improved or maintained at a minimum. Thirdly, a reduction in staff can only take place with natural departures. In the area of memory, several working groups are working on or have considered this topic. First, a working group conducted an evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of a structural rapprochement between the Office Central d'Action Sociale et Culturelle de la Défense (OCASC) and the Institut des Vétérans – Institut National des Invalides de Guerre, Veterans Affairs and War Victims (IV-INIG). IV-INIG is currently among its tasks, as set out in the Act of 8 August 1981, to promote, within the framework of its moral missions, the recognition due to the victims of war and to the associations which represent them through the information of public opinion. He ensures that the memory of the sacrifices made and of the moral values underlying them are kept alive. To this end, the IV-INIG maintains the memory of the painful trials that the country is experiencing. The Institute also has a legal mandate to take initiatives to commemorate the Holocaust and combat anti-Semitism, racism, xenophobia and intolerance. It is precisely in this context that I go to Auschwitz tomorrow with a delegation of secondary school students. As part of the studies on the future of the institutions under my supervision, it was discussed which organizations could integrate the transmission of the memorandum and what the impact would be. The Defence Historical Centre conducted a study on the maintenance and presentation of Defence's historical heritage, including the transmission component of memory. This study covers, among other things, the missions currently carried out by the Royal Army Museum. The working group concluded that the most timely solution was to create a new cross-cutting federal service responsible for the transmission of historical heritage memory, management and exploitation. This working group also made it clear that the memory affects not only the IV-INIG but also other institutions such as the National Memorial of the Breendonk Fort or the General Directorate of War Victims, which is under the Social Security FPS and which is competent for civilian victims of war. However, the organization, missions, structure, status, staff and the means to be provided in this cross-cutting unit were not precisely defined, and therefore a working group was tasked with detailing this part of the study. It includes both members of the Administrations of the IV-INIG and the MRA and the Historical Defence Pole. By putting this group to work, it is clear that my intention is not to dismantle the memory work, but rather to rationalize and coordinate efforts in the field of memory so that this component can be strengthened. The aim is therefore to centralize memory work in a cross-cutting federal organization. The possibility of working with regional branches is not new, I take as an example the current sites of the MRA in Bastogne or the Boyau de la Mort in Dixmude. In these different regional branches, it is possible to exhibit MRA collections that are currently not accessible to the public due to a lack of space in the infrastructure of the Cinquantenaire Park. This more detailed study of the cross-sectional structure is still under way. In conclusion, as soon as all the working groups have submitted their proposals to me, I will present a comprehensive plan to the government. I shall inform the Defence Committee as soon as the Committee has taken a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am glad that you are aware of the importance of memory work. And I can only welcome your participation in this work tomorrow. Having said that, I have discovered, by going through the press, an organizational chart that I can give you since you seem to ignore its existence, which worries me all the more. As I said in my speech, I see no problem in having the work done in collaboration with local branches. As a municipalist, I believe that memory work must be done in our cities, in our neighbourhoods. But things must be done in a fair manner throughout our territory. There can be no question of decentralizing some of the defence's assets, of some being better served than others, and of regionalizing the memory of the Belgians. Even though I'm a "recorded exhibit" in this story, I'm still a convinced defendant. You stated that some properties had been placed in regional branches due to the lack of space at the Royal Army Museum. Be aware that I went there yesterday to prepare for my arrest. It must be noted, however, that there is no shortage of space, even if certain adjustments are needed. I know that these adjustments require investment, but we have a budget to do so because 400,000 euros have not been committed this year. In addition, there is a rumour that all aviation equipment should be assembled in Coxide, which is cause for my concern. I'm going to send you a copy of the organization chart, and you can see that there is an important regionalization. I am therefore particularly concerned. These are the reasons why I tabled a motion to ensure that the memory work remains federal and that, more symbolically, the Royal Army Museum is protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u91	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, to be correct, the organizational chart you are showing is a working document discussed with the social partners. I'm not gonna discuss it here. To be frank, I regret that despite the good contacts we have with the social partners, I find myself confronted politically with a document transmitted with confidence to feed, document and improve the discussion. As far as regionalisation is concerned, I think the most important thing is memory work. This covers areas for which the federal government is not competent, particularly those of education and schools. That is why I think it is appropriate to involve the Communities in the work of memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u92	I share this last thought. Teaching is indeed paramount in this work of memory. Defence historians can go to schools very well and collaborate with the French Community. I don't know if the lead is mentioned, but why not? I think the more people meet, the better they talk to each other, the better they exchange and know each other, the better we prepare for the future. I can quite agree that this organizational chart is a working document. That's proof we're working. I can only say hello to him. However, I remain concerned about the future in the light of the information available to me. Maybe it's my kind of parliamentarian. The motion has been tabled. She's not far from what you're saying. But beyond reflections, assumptions and working documents, there are facts. And the facts appear in the state in which the Royal Army Museum is now located. Neither my group nor myself are opposed to cooperation and collaboration with federated entities and local branches. It's got to be. We must not dispossess the ground of our history. But we need an inventory, we need to know what we have in order to be able to distribute it in a balanced way throughout the country tomorrow. I'd even go a little further. I tried to find out about the structure of the various local antennas. It's the blur. Perhaps, in this inventory or rather in this state of affairs, to use a term that corresponds better, it should be said that such an organization in such a place has such structure and explain its operation. I hear that, in some antennas, Defence is represented. In others, she's not. All this is a little blurry, at least for me. Could you then give us some clarifications? I'm asking for this inventory, this state of affairs. This should be feasible because you are working on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u93	Madam President, my question concerns exactly the same subject. I do not know how the work of our committee is organised, but I find it regrettable to prevent a member from joining a question that deals with exactly the same subject. This is not a way of organizing our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u94	Mr Dallemagne, I have also asked a question on the subject myself. There are common ground here and there. However, my question is different from Mrs Fernandez Fernandez's interpretation. The other questions will be postponed to another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-27-54-commissie-ic322x.u95	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Sébastian Pirlot and Éric Thiébaut and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government 1. to develop a genuine strategic plan for the MRA and its possible regional branches, as federal institutions, which will put an end to the current situation both in terms of management, the dilapidation of certain exhibition rooms and the loss of certain pieces of collection with particular attention to its staff and its future within the institution; 2. to carry out the work of the MRA in order to meet the pressing needs of its modernization and to maintain as wide and affordable access as possible to the public, paying particular attention to the publicity of its activities and vis-à-vis the school world and tourism; 3. to preserve the essential collections on the site of the 50th anniversary, such as the aircraft room as a major attraction to the public and by inventorying and highlighting its rich collections; 4. assess the possibility of temporarily lending and supervising the Museum's unused collections within regional MRA offices or other museums by ensuring a balanced geographical distribution; 5. within the framework of this scientific policy within the MRA and for all activities carried out as part of this memory work, to make full use of the scientific and human potential within the Defence and the Federal Scientific Institutions and to outsource these tasks only as a last resort; 6. to ensure that our army archives are made available free of charge in order to raise the awareness of as many people as possible in good intelligence with the ASBLs active within the Museum; 7. to renew scientific and historical links with foreign counterparts; 8. to ensure a reform of the IV-INIG which is considered in favour of its beneficiaries and its missions and which does not, under any circumstances, call into question the federal anchoring of the work of memory; 9. to ensure better monitoring of the maintenance of the major symbols of this memory in order to remedy certain shortcomings in the maintenance of the places concerned, but also to combat the vandalism which might occur there in collaboration with the local authorities, especially in terms of human and budgetary means." A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Éric Thiébaut: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, calls on the Government 1. develop a genuine strategic plan for the KML and its possible regional departments as federal institutions, putting an end to the current situation, in particular the management, the poor state of certain exhibition halls, and the loss of certain items from the collection, paying particular attention to staff and their future in the institution; 2. to complete the work on the KML in order to meet the great need to modernise the museum and to keep public access as wide and accessible as possible, paying particular attention to the publication of its activities, including with regard to schools and tourists; 3. maintain the essential collections on the Jubelparksite, such as the pieces of the Aerodrome Hall, which attracts many visitors, and to inventory and exploit the rich collections of the KLM; 4. consider whether it is possible to temporarily and within a strict framework to lend the collections not exhibited in the Royal Army Museum and the Military History to the external sites or other museums, taking into account a balanced geographical distribution; 5. under this scientific policy in the Royal Museum of the Army and the Military History and for all activities in the context of that preservation of memory, make full use of the scientific and human potential of Defence and of the federal scientific institutions and spend those tasks only if there is no other way; 6. ensure that the archives of our army are made available free of charge in order to raise awareness as many people as possible, in agreement with the non-profit organisations active in the Museum; 7. to strengthen scientific and historical links with similar foreign museums; 8. ensure a well-thought-out reform of the IV-NIOO in the interests of rightholders and of the tasks of the IV-NIOO, without under any circumstances questioning the federal anchoring of the preservation of the memory; 9. ensure a better follow-up to the maintenance of the important symbols of that reminder to address a number of shortcomings in the maintenance of the sites concerned, but also to combat possible vandalism in those locations in cooperation with local authorities, in particular in terms of human and budgetary resources." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Renate Hufkens and by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Gautier Calomne et Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Tim Vandenput. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
