ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u1	Question No 14810 by Mr Vanden Burre is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u2	Minister, Human Rights Watch (HRW) published a 67-page report on Friday, November 4, criticizing the anti-terrorist measures taken in Belgium. In particular, the NGO reports the prolonged isolation of detainees accused or found guilty of acts in connection with terrorist activities and the new anti-terrorism laws, which are sometimes too vague in scope, which endanger human rights. However, as the UN specifies, indefinite or prolonged solitary confinement is tantamount to torture or cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, which is prohibited by international treaties, including the European Convention on Human Rights. In this regard, several psychiatrists have also pointed to the potential dangers of prolonged isolation of an individual, both to his or her physical and mental health. Of course, prisons are places that require special attention in the fight against radicalisation, we all agree; however, these measures must at all costs respect the higher standards. It is difficult, however, to argue, as you do, that prisoners in solitary confinement enjoy the same rights for prisoners, since prisoners are forced to remain alone, to eat alone, to wash themselves and to enjoy one hour a day outside in a tiny courtyard, also alone. In particular, the report states: "In the first few months, detainees had no right to physical contact with visiting family members and were separated from them by a window. No organized activities were offered to prisoners." So, at the end of your meeting with the representatives of the NGO in question, I would like to know what initiatives you are going to take to respond to the comments made. Let me ask you the following questions. Do you intend to put an immediate end to the policy of long-term and automatic isolation of prisoners detained in terrorist cases, as recommended by the NGO? Can you indicate how many inmates are currently in long-term isolation, i.e. more than 15 days? Can you detail the specific safety measures reserved for them and their regime? How many prisoners are in solitary confinement up to 23 hours a day?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u3	Dear colleague, first of all, I do not intend to close the D-Rad:Ex sections in Hasselt and Ittre prisons. In my view, Human Rights Watch made two mistakes in reasoning or interpretation that led her to adopt her point of view. Firstly, I do not read anywhere in the report what is meant by "long-term isolation". The level of sensory deprivation, corresponding to such a form of confinement, is not on the agenda in these sections. The aim of the placement of prisoners in these sections is to achieve maximum normalization of life in the prison, in a section that is separated from the other sections. Therefore, the D-Rad:Ex section is a section, like many others, that can be created or already exists, in the context of the differentiated execution of sentences. A stay in this section is a de facto part of the detention route and the detention plan of the detainees concerned. So I do not see directly why a classification for such sections should be assessed other than for other sections of prison. Even more, today, this classification is based on more scientific assessment instruments than some others. Such a methodology should be the norm. I do not hide from you that the offer of activities for these detainees is not yet complete. Their organisation and content are a competence which I share with the colleagues of the Communities, with whom I consult on this subject. If the inmates in this section, and this sometimes also applies to inmates in other sections, are not yet able to participate sufficiently in activities and, as a result, have to spend more hours in a cell than you wanted, I deplore this fact with you. However, it is not specific to the D-Rad:Ex sections and it would be a wrong conclusion to close this section for this reason. We are working hard to develop a worthy offer for assistance, services and other activities for these detainees. As I said, Human Rights Watch made a second mistake in reasoning. The D-Rad:Ex section cannot be seen as synonymous with the imposition of individual, specific or individual security measures. The placements in a D-Rad:Ex section result from the approach of a phenomenon at the collective level, and therefore, in this case, are aimed at preventing co-prisoners who have extremist ideas from exerting a negative influence. The imposition of specific individual security measures or regimes is an individualized security and order measure. Such a measure is subject to the protection of the provisions of the Law of Principles and, more specifically, that of Chapter III of Title VI of the Law of Principles. As far as your second question is concerned, nine detainees are currently staying in the D-Rad:Ex section of Hasselt and fourteen in Ittre section. As long as they are subject to a particular individual security measure or regime, such a measure or regime must comply with the legal provisions that I have just mentioned. In full compliance with the letter and spirit of the law of principles, these measures consist of a personalized package according to the aspects of the regime. The law therefore does not provide for a package of stereotypical facilities and, therefore, I am not in a position to submit it to you. Since measures under the individual security regime are not intended to isolate an inmate for 23 hours (such a form of isolation in our prisons is almost equivalent to placing the inmate in a punishment cell), a list of prisoners who would be subject to it is obviously not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u4	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which I will take pains to analyse in depth. You're telling me that there's a misreading by Human Rights Watch about long-term isolation. The total isolation of persons for more than 15 days is considered to be long-term. The whole thing is, of course, to close the sections that exceed this period or, in any case, to respect human rights, i.e. not to leave the detainees alone for 23 hours, to allow them to see their families, etc. It is true that the execution of sentences must be differentiated, but it is essential to respect European human rights conventions, while ensuring the necessary security and order measures for these detainees under specific conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u5	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is another issue with regard to inmates. Indeed, we have recently learned that the Step by Step projects in Wallonia and Prism in Brussels, which aim to facilitate and improve the care of drug addicted prisoners when they leave prison and which were financed by the SPF Justice, are no longer funded by you. As a result, a number of support schemes for prisoners who are drug addicted to prison have been abolished. However, these associations play an essential role with this vulnerable public in several respects. There are many requests for assistance, showing the importance of such support. It appears that the Finance Inspectorate has given a negative opinion on this funding, as it claims the Communities have jurisdiction. Yet the competence "Health in prisons" remains essentially a federal competence. The budget for the care of drug-addicted prisoners has also remained in your scarlet. We are therefore surprised by this decision. Minister, could you please explain the reasons for stopping this funding? Could you make available to us the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate dealing with this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Özen, as I said earlier, the contracts of the Central Contact Points for Drugs in Walloon and Brussels prisons ceased at the end of September without a temporary extension being offered. Since the end of October, the Finance Inspectorate has dealt three times with a file from our PPE Directorate-General with a temporary extension of funding for the Central Drug Contact Points in prisons. For the first time, on 30 October 2015, the Inspector of Finance asked further questions about the contracts that had expired in the meantime and questions about the legal basis for the extension of contracts. Our administration then completed the file and again submitted it to it with the argument that the legal basis stems, on the one hand, from the obligation to ensure continuity of care and, on the other hand, from the federal responsibility of the FPS Justice to guarantee health care in prisons. In its opinion of 22 December 2015, the inspector considered that this legal basis was not relevant. He indicated that the extension of contracts should be by way of competition. A new file with a proposal to consult the contract for a temporary extension was submitted to the Inspector of Finance on March 30, 2016, but the file again ended with a negative opinion. In its opinion, the Inspector of Finance referred, on the one hand, to the federal jurisdiction in question, in the light of the division of powers laid down in the Special Act on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980, in particular Article 5(1), (2), (7). On the other hand, it is also referred to funding. During the budgetary control, no additional means had been allocated to DG PPE for the task of the central contact points, in particular because of the discussion on competences. Finally, I refer to the Budget Minister's decision of 30 August last year in the context of our appeal against the negative opinion of the Inspector of Finance. Wilmès questioned the federal jurisdiction of the FPS Justice with respect to the funding of central contact points. The fact that competence for the organisation of assistance to prisoners with drug addiction problems cannot be unequivocally attributed to a level of federal competence and, more specifically, to Justice and Public Health, but to the Communities, is also apparent from a legal study carried out at the request of the Flemish Minister of Welfare, Jo Vandeurzen. According to the study, the provision of medical care in prisons and assistance to prisoners, when drawing up their detention plans, is undoubtedly a federal responsibility, while the Communities remain competent for assistance to drug addicts, specifically with regard to long-term rehabilitation and preventive health care. It is therefore now necessary to analyse in depth the activities developed by the central contact points, to check what services should continue to be provided, how they should be provided and by whom. Last week, impact assessment researchers came to present their findings and recommendations to the Prison Health Care Unit, following which it was agreed to hold a trilateral consultation with each Community separately over the next month. The scientific researchers will attend us on this occasion. Indeed, the context and landscape of assistance to drug addicts differ in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. Thanks to this, we hope to achieve a real restart of the functioning of the central contact points with a clear definition of competences and responsibilities and, ultimately, the possibility of providing better services to this very vulnerable group of prisoners. Assistance to drug-addicted prisoners on parole is crucial for preventing recidivism and achieving social reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u8	Mr President, Minister, an agreement seems to have been reached at the government table on a preliminary bill to better combat the so-called "paper baby" phenomenon. It aims to facilitate the work of the various public services in the face of the resurgence of this phenomenon. Various measures would be envisaged, including the possibility for the registrar to postpone or refuse suspicious recognition applications more easily. The draft law would also include criteria for joining a municipality in connection with registration, in order to prevent people from going from local to locality until an administration accepts their request. Finally, a law enforcement component would be envisaged to strengthen sanctions for abuses and allow for the annulment of fraudulent acts. At the outset, I congratulate you on these advances, which will strengthen the legal system in the face of a phenomenon of which children are, of course, the first victims. However, I would like more details. Minister, what exactly is the scope of the draft bill under debate? What are the aims? What measures are planned to facilitate the work of officials in the municipal administrations and thus to strengthen possible synergies with the federal services concerned? Do you have data on the phenomenon of "paper babies"? What does he represent today in our country? Finally, what is the planned agenda for the adoption and entry into force of the proposed legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u9	Minister, to my earlier questions concerning the false recognition of children, in which children are abused by the father or mother for the sole purpose of either cheating or obtaining a residence permit, you replied that you would draw up a concrete text proposal in consultation with Secretary of State Francken. A new legislative text is now ready to prevent the abuse of residence legislation. It provides for both preventive and repressive measures. We are very pleased about this. Firstly, does the new text include measures relating to false recognition certificates established abroad? Secondly, if a false recognition is established, will an investigation be linked to it in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings, as well as to falsehood in written and false documents? Thirdly, when a false recognition has been proven, will that mean an end to the right of residence of the person who has cheated? If the connoisseur is still abroad, will he still be able to enter the country or will access the territory be refused? Finally, given that legislation in this area is not or is not yet uniform in several countries, will there be work at international level to standardise legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u10	Mr President, the Council of Ministers has in fact approved, as part of the implementation of the government agreement, a preliminary draft law to combat simulated recognition. The intensification in recent years of the fight against marriages of convenience and legal cohabitation of convenience has had the effect of shifting this problem on the recognition of children. Recognition of a child is easy under Belgian law and the establishment of filiation gives the right to family reunification. In the most obvious cases, several children, sometimes more than ten, are recognized by one person. The draft law is based on the rules for simulated marriages and legal cohabitation of convenience. The draft amended the Civil Code, the Judicial Code, the Consular Code and the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to and residence, establishment and removal of aliens. In general, this means that the registrar may suspend the drafting of the act of recognition or even refuse to establish it. The Public Prosecutor's Office may also act. The Registrar may request the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but the Public Prosecutor's Office will also be able to request the cancellation of a simulated recognition. It is also planned to limit the territorial jurisdiction of the registrar in the area of recognition. For the time being, the recognizer can choose the registrar before whom he wants to recognize the child and this can promote the shopping forum. Finally, the preliminary draft makes simulated recognition an offence. The persons concerned will therefore also be able to be prosecuted in criminal proceedings. Judicial review will ensure respect for the interests of the child, particularly in the context of the judicial search for kinship, which is the last way to determine filiation if recognition is refused. The concept of the interest of the child is also interesting in the context of the recognition of complacency. Recognition of a child for the sole purpose of obtaining an advantage in the matter of residence and therefore without any intention of respecting the rights and duties related to filiation or caring for the child, can hardly be considered to be in the interests of the child. The purpose of the preliminary draft is to prevent recognitions that are made solely for the purpose of obtaining a residence benefit related to the establishment of a filiation bond. It is therefore intended in principle to cover the same persons who fall within the scope of the provisions on simulated marriages and legal cohabitation of convenience, but who use the recognition of a child to achieve their purpose. As far as the work of communal agents is concerned, the main aim is to limit the territorial competence of civil registrars. In addition, the databases on simulated marriages and legal cohabitation of convenience will be supplemented by information on simulated recognitions, so that there will be a better flow of information. Communal agents will have the same means as for simulated marriages and legal cohabitations of convenience, i.e. the possibility to request the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to obtain the relevant information from the Office of Foreigners. All this will be specified in a circular. They will now be able to redirect their efforts towards simulated recognition. Currently, civil registrars do not have a specific legal basis for refusing simulated recognition. Some prosecutors actually try to act by making use of the public policy clause referred to in Article 138a, § 1 of the Judicial Code. Since there is no specific legal basis, I have no figures on this phenomenon. The draft law will also have implications for recognitions made abroad. Such recognition shall be granted in Belgium only if its validity is established in accordance with the law applicable under the Private International Law Code. For recognitions, that applicable law shall be the law of which the person recognising it has the nationality. This means that, when it comes to the recognition of a Belgian child by a person of foreign nationality, that foreign law applies. If that foreign law does not or does not prohibit false recognition, which will often be the case, the draft law would lose much of its usefulness. It is therefore important that Belgian law on fake recognition should also apply when the determination of descent is governed by foreign law. For this reason, the definition of fake recognition, which is included in the Civil Code, will constitute a priority rule, a police law, as referred to in Article 20 of the Private International Code. That priority rule should be applied whenever the establishment of a line of origin for one of the parties concerned can have a right of residence. With regard to linking an investigation in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings to the establishment of a false recognition, it is up to the court to decide, on the basis of the file and the information at its disposal, whether an investigation into trafficking in human beings should be conducted. As I said earlier, the draft law provides for the possibility for the public prosecutor to claim the nullity of a false recognition. If the nullity is pronounced, the judicial decision will be sent to the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is then up to the Foreign Affairs Office to settle the consequences of the right of residence, such as the removal of territory or an entry ban. There is currently no legislation at international level to deal with the problem. That has not happened either in the field of marriages of convenience. The existence of phenomena of marriage of complacency, legal cohabitation of complacency and recognition of complacency are also victims. However, I do not think the creation of a new federal agency for the care of these victims is appropriate. As you point out, different associations are already providing valuable work in this area. In addition, victims should also be able to apply to the regular victim care system where they may be able to find specific attention to these issues. The preliminary draft had been approved by the Council of Ministers and the Council of State now had to deliver its opinion. When it is returned, the preliminary draft will eventually be adapted to be submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u11	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u12	Of course, Minister, we are pleased that the problem is being taken seriously, because we believe that it is becoming more and more widespread. We support an initiative to reduce the problems. Among other things, civil servants and the public prosecutors will be given more legal means of refusing recognition. It is also important that the right of residence should also be abolished once the false recognition has been proved, as the object of the right of residence is, as it were, removed. Apparently, that decision is now left to the Foreign Office and it's just a possibility, not a certainty. So that's something to look at. We're looking forward to seeing the design soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, the minutes for speeding up the prosecutor's office are congested. This is a reality and we are not going to go back to the subject. There is also a reflection within the public prosecutor's offices to reduce the related workload. One suggestion was to impose quotas on police areas. Prosecutors would not deal with excess minutes of such quotas. Then, finally, the idea was abandoned, in any case at the level of the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office, for reasons of organisation and injustice between the different police areas. As a result of these various findings, a solution had been suggested: to organize consultations between prosecutors and police areas in order to reduce the number of minutes for speeding up, with a qualitative rather than quantitative approach. When I asked you about this a few months ago, you confirmed to me that several consultations had already taken place, also with the federated entities, in order to ensure a match between the new competences of the Regions and the criminal policy of the prosecutors. Minister, can you give me an update on this issue of the handling of minutes for speeding by the public prosecutor's offices? Do the other public prosecutor's offices follow the example of Liège in this respect? What is the status of the dialogue between prosecutors and federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, the College of Attorneys General, which has consulted with the public prosecutors' offices at first instance, informs me that it is clear from the latter that if the track of quotas could not be followed, consultations have indeed been set up in the majority of judicial districts. The aim of these consultations between prosecutors and the police is to establish the most effective means of monitoring in the chain of observation and repression. This dialogue is essential in determining priorities based on the deployment of available resources. In road criminal policy, it is important to focus on quality rather than quantity. Thus, priority must be given to controls at places known to be dangerous and also taking into account the days and hours at which they are to take place. Criminal policy notes are under discussion, particularly in the judicial districts of Liège and Antwerp. To stimulate the involvement of prosecutors, there are currently federal and regional projects. The Cross Border of Justice project will speed up and improve the collection of driving fines due from foreign and Belgian drivers. Following the European Cross Border Directives, the full working process of collecting driving fines has been reviewed and will be fully computerized, so that the bottlenecks with the Public Prosecutor's Office are removed and quotas are over. A data bank of fines will be developed to which the Justice, the Police, and the Mobility Department will have access in order to be able to carry out a better security policy and to combat recidivism more effectively. In addition, it is planned to work with La Poste to print and send fines. La Poste will also set up a call center that will be able to answer questions from Belgians and foreigners in all European languages. Thus the administrative tasks will decrease sharply and prosecutors will be able to free up time to concentrate on their key task, i.e. to continue. Payment will also be made easier and feasible by electronic means by means of a credit card for foreigners. Coercion will be reinforced on three points: the creation of an enforceable order by the Public Prosecutor's Office (order to pay), the execution of the subsidiary prison sentence in case of default of payment and the use of the ANPR scanners of customs for criminal fines. The payment deadline will be reduced by sending the minutes and the invitation to pay under one fold instead of two separate shipments, as is currently the case. However, it is important to draw attention to the fact that the collection of road fines is currently carried out on the basis of the invitation to pay and the proposed transaction. The Cross Border project was the subject of a broad consultation with the Regions and their opinion was requested on 28 October. The Cross Border project was approved at the last federal budget conclave, during which the additional decimes and fares for driving fines were increased. Since 1 January 2015, the Regions have been responsible for a large part of the road safety legislation. I therefore refer you to them for any questions concerning their plans. The representatives of the Regions have been appointed to participate in the work of the network of "road traffic" expertise of the College of Prosecutors General. Members of the Walloon Region have already come to present their plans. The Flemish Region will do so soon. However, the representatives of the College of Attorneys General have already participated, for several months, in setting up meetings in the Regions as part of the Sixth State Reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u15	Minister, I thank you for the completeness of your answer, for the progress that has been made. You took stock so that we could see more clearly. This is an important issue on which we will return.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u16	Question No 14949 by Mr Brotcorn is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u17	Mr Minister, at the beginning of this year, following an open letter of three kings, I and a number of other fellow Members asked you a number of questions about the recent law on family rule at the beginning of this year. In your reply, you mentioned a number of interesting issues relating to the Royal Decree on an indicative list of diseases in the context of family management, the medical certificate in the context of the simplification of that new law, the development of a framework to make the function of director more accessible to the Family Director in cooperation with the Communities, and the consultation of actors to evaluate the human qualities of directors, once the Royal Decrees relating to this law have been approved. Given that this has not been evaluated since my previous questions, I would like to re-inquire about the state of play. First of all, has the KB with the list of diseases been finalized in the meantime? If so, when can it be expected to be published? If not, do you have any idea of the deadline? Secondly, has the discussion of the medical certificate also examined how this can be made easier in practice? Has there already been any determination as to how this will happen? Thirdly, has a framework already been established to make it easier for a family director to take on this task? Finally, have the actors in the field already been consulted in order to draw up an evaluation of the human qualities to be met by directors? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u18	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has not arrived yet, and that is why I give the floor immediately to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u19	Mrs Uyttersprot, as I have already mentioned in my replies to previous questions on this subject, the improvement and further implementation of the law of 17 March 2003 is currently being fully pursued. In practice, several suggestions were made to simplify and improve the functioning of the law. These suggestions will be examined and included in a preliminary draft law, the draft of which will be finalized shortly and will shortly be submitted to practitioners so that the draft law can be optimally aligned with practice in the light of the spirit of the law. The suggestions you have made will also be examined in the further development of the preliminary draft budget and the implementing CSFs. Indeed, the figures relating to the number of statutory contracts registered under out-of-court protection from the database managed by the KFBN are correct. The KFBN indicates that the use of the so-called care power is very popular and that this also meets the need in today's society to entrust the management of the assets to a particular person, also taking into account the ageing population and the need for a certain succession planning at an older age. They have also recently reported on this in the weekend edition of De Standaard of 3 September 2016. However, the figures relating to judicial protection from the statistics of the FPS Justice need to be considered critically. The remarkable increase in the heading "New cases' on the general role of the application Article 488bis Civil Code is a consequence of the entry into force of the new law of 17 March 2013 on 1 September 2014. According to Article 228 of the Law of 17 March 2013, all provisional regimes which had been governed before 1 September 2014 should be subject to the new provisions concerning the regime of the goods. If necessary, the justice of the peace will use this tilt of its own motion. As a result, many cases are closed and re-registered. This will lead to a significant increase in the number of newly registered cases in 2015 and this effect is likely to continue to be felt in the coming years. With regard to the biennial evaluation in general, I can tell you that it will be reformed in the preliminary draft law, inter alia at the request of the peace judges and the high workload it entails, without affecting the spirit of the law. A system of continuous evaluation without excessive formalism is under consideration. I did not take a circular on the first evaluation of the reversal of a dossier in the new regime, but I am considering including such a provision in the preliminary draft in order to make the evaluation system more efficient, less time-consuming and less expensive. The essence is that at any time during the reign customization must be monitored in a simple and accessible manner. The exercise of political rights, including the right to vote to which you refer in your question, will be included in the list of acts contained in Article 492/1 of the Civil Code, on which the peace court must expressly rule in its decision to take a judicial protection measure concerning the person. In view of Article 1.15e of the Royal Decree establishing the information contained in the population register and the alien register, as amended by the Royal Decree of 21 July 2014, this Decision will also be included in the population register. This will put an end to the current uncertainties in this respect. The draft Royal Decree on the list of health statuses is almost complete. A preliminary draft text has already been drawn up in cooperation with the Minister for Health, who is also responsible for this matter. In accordance with Article 492/5 of the Civil Code, the preliminary draft Royal Decree is submitted to the Order of Physicians, now the Order of Doctors, and the National Council for Persons with Disability. The text will then be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. During the preparation of the preliminary draft for simplification, the medical certificate, and in particular the indication of the effects of the established state of health according to the international qualification determined by the World Health Organisation, were indeed considered. The problem with this mention is that only psychiatrists are familiar with this instrument. The preliminary draft will draw up a concrete proposal which takes account of these concerns, without losing sight of the need for qualitative information for the justice of the peace. After all, a well-framed medical certificate contains particularly valuable information which should allow the peace court to make the statute effective and tailored. My policy cell has already had a number of contacts with the field, in preparation for the royal decision on the director's profile and making the law on family directors more accessible. Further concrete steps will only be taken after the draft law on simplification has been finalised. With regard to the correct application of the law of 17 March 2013 by banks, banks are expected to comply with the legal provisions in force and must comply with and enforce the decisions of the justices of the peace concerning the incapacity and protection of the person.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply, which I will read with great interest. I am certainly pleased to hear that there is a draft law in the pipeline to remedy the gaps and uncertainties that exist today. It is certainly a good thing that you are improving on the basis of the suggestions that apparently live in practice. It is still our job to make legislation which in practice meets the needs and which remains at a very low level. We look forward to your text with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u21	Mr President, Minister, in this matter on which I am asking you regularly, we are going from discovery to discovery and surprise. In following up on the questions I asked you last Wednesday about the strange circumstances in which the amicable criminal transaction was implemented between May and August 2011, I would like to ask you a few additional questions. These are, on the one hand, questions that remained unanswered last Wednesday and, on the other hand, questions that follow new revelations in the media. The latter are, moreover, much better informed at this stage than this Parliament; what I find problematic for our monitoring mission. It turns out, minister, that despite a commitment made before the Senate at the time by the Minister of Justice and clear instructions from the Attorneys General, the principle of amicable criminal transaction was applied in its first version between May 16, 2011 and the coming into force of the correcting law on August 11 of the same year. You confirmed to me on 9 November that, in the short term, it was always possible to propose a criminal transaction in cases where public action was pending but not for facts for which the legislator had determined a wider material field. Last Wednesday, you told me: "In May 2011, pending the law of reparation, the general prosecutors near the courts of appeal issued temporary directives. In particular, they provided that if the law of reparation limited the scope of the cases in which an extended criminal transaction could be proposed, it was not recommended to apply this new article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, nor to propose extended criminal transactions until the law of reparation had been published in the Belgian Moniteur." However, in view of the time limits within which my question had been submitted, you were unable to provide me with further figures on the application, in the meantime, of Article 216a. Minister, my first question is, can you tell me in what form the Attorneys General issued the temporary directives mentioned above? Was it in the form of a circular? If so, what is its date of publication and reference? Can it be passed on to me? Do you confirm that at least one amicable criminal transaction was concluded between 16 May and 11 August 2011, specifically on 17 June 2011, in the Chodiev case before the Brussels court? How can you explain that the temporary directives of the Attorney General have not been applied in this case? As Minister of Justice, do you not find this problematic? How many cases, beyond that, were the subject of an amicable criminal transaction between May 16, 2011 and August 11, 2011? For what type of offence? In which courts? Where appropriate, if there has been a failure to comply with the instructions given by the public prosecutors, have any sanctions been envisaged or applied against magistrates, such as a general lawyer, who would have failed to comply with the temporary directives mentioned above? Let me turn to my second question. I have read carefully and with interest the newspaper Le Soir and its survey published on 14 November, in which the daily publishes more precise information on this subject. There was reportedly an exchange of letters between the Attorneys General and the Minister of Justice and several circulars from each Attorney General to his prosecution. It seems that the one issued by the Prosecutor General of Brussels, Mr de la Court, stated at the time that if, however, in very exceptional circumstances, the Prosecutor's Office considered that such a transaction should be proposed, a detailed report should be sent to him, justifying these particular circumstances and seeking his agreement in advance. Do you confirm the existence of separate circulars from the Attorney General on the subject? Is it the practice, in relation to a specific injunction, to issue a different circular for each court? What justifies separate circulars rather than a single circular? Can you give me these circulars, and in particular the one signed by the Attorney-General of the Court for the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office? Do you confirm the terms used in the Evening Article, providing for "an exception to the rule of temporary non-application of Article 216a"? Have other Attorneys-General introduced such an exception regime through their own circular, or is it a Brussels specificity? In the case before us, namely the Kazakh trio, have the conditions laid down by the Brussels Prosecutor-General, namely the transmission of a detailed report justifying the particular circumstances and prior agreement, been complied with? If so, what was the content of this detailed report? What was the basis for this proposal by Advocate General De Wolf? If so, has the Attorney General given his consent and in what form? What justified this agreement, in contradiction with its own circular and with the instructions given by the then Minister of Justice and his commitment to the Senate, which I reminded you last week? We also learn in this article of the Evening - and this is a new element - that it would have been the lawyers of the Kazakh trio who wrote the text of the transaction. Is it the norm within Belgian justice that litigants themselves write the terms of this type of transaction? Is there not there, in your opinion, Mr. Minister of Justice, a major problem? Finally, two related issues, perhaps of lesser importance, but nevertheless. The same article of the Soir publishes information which refers to the decision of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office of 22 February to appeal the decision of the Chamber of Council of 18 February, a decision which was in his favour, in any case at first sight, since it provided for the prosecution of the persons concerned. I would like a clarification on the matter. Who decided to appeal the decision of the Board? What are the reasons and elements used for the prosecution's appeal on 22 February 2011, when the decision to refer the case was favourable to him? Finally, detail or perhaps not: the Evening article subreptitiously refers to an intrusion into the office of Advocate General M. From Wolf shortly before the conclusion of the criminal transaction with the Kazakh trio during the weekend of 4 and 5 June 2011. I did find a Belga dispatch, which I attached to my question, referring to this intrusion and the theft of a laptop and a briefcase with documents belonging to Advocate General M. Wolf. Given the temporality and sensitivity of the case, it is particularly challenging. Do you confirm this intrusion? Has an investigation been conducted into her? By whom? When? What was his conclusion? What was the result of this investigation? Were documents or electronic media taken away? Are you confirming? Did they have anything to do with the file we're dealing with? Is it usual that there are intrusions into the Brussels courthouse? Can you tell us about this for the last five years? These are my many questions. They are not the first, and they will probably not be the last, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u22	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague has just said, there are many revelations in the press about the Chodiev case. I'm not here to talk to you about leaks, let's be clear. I suppose you realized this when I read my question because I think the most important element is not there. The problem lies in the entry into force of the possibility of making criminal transactions, the entry into force of the law of reparation and the time of conclusion by the Attorney-General's Office validated by the judgment of the Court of Appeal of this transaction in the Chodiev case. I come to the most important element that needs to be put forward in this case. If there was no circular from the Attorney General, was there a request to that effect in the minister's office at the time? It's up to you to answer me. I guess we can find this in the archives. However, there would be a circular from the Brussels Public Prosecutor who, like his other colleagues, calls on the Advocates-General in a directive not to make use of the criminal transaction, unless exceptional circumstances are justified in a detailed report. The other element that raises questions is, of course, the assertions that there had been assistance to the Advocate General in the drafting of this significant agreement on the transaction. As we all know, the transaction must come from the prosecutor's office and not from the party prosecuted, but the party prosecuted must agree. This is important because it is the Advocate General who must propose the transaction to the parties. Mr Minister, in view of the secrecy of the information and the presumption of innocence, do you confirm the existence of a circular, a written document, of the Prosecutor General of Brussels, Mr de la Court? It's important to know that. If so, why can't this circular be made public? According to the press, it would appear that elements of a confidential nature contained in the circular would object to its being made public. That seems paradoxical to me. Why is it not made public, since it should be of general application, since it applies to the entire body of the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels? This is not about a particular case. I guess we didn't do a circular just for the Chodiev file. Had Mr. de le Court's colleagues, the other four Attorneys General, taken similar initiatives? Are there also circulars that have been drawn up? Let us assume that there is a circular and that it clearly states that the criminal transaction cannot be used unless exceptional circumstances are justified in a detailed report. Do you believe that, without a detailed report justifying exceptional circumstances, the Advocate General nevertheless proposed this transaction? If so, from the moment he violated the instructions given by his head of corps, had an administrative procedure been conducted; had disciplinary proceedings been initiated? Question of expediency: Could the Advocate General not have proposed the transaction after the entry into force of the restorative law, especially since it extends the scope of application? Since at that time, false writing is clearly referred to in restorative law, which is not the case in the former. The following question, which seems important to me: until the entry into force of the restorative law, i.e. between 16 May 2011 and 21 August 2011, I am not interested in the number of transactions carried out, even if I would like to dispose of the figure if you have it, but have detailed reports justifying the criminal transaction been submitted to the Attorney General? If so, how many? If you have the number, then I wish I could get it. The press says that the solicitation would have been drafted, that there would have been help or that the Advocate General would have been suggested to propose a transaction. Is this a regular practice? If that had been the case, had any proceedings been conducted with respect to the standing magistrate who would have initiated such proceedings? Finally, the final question is that the situation is also a matter of concern - I am not going to go into the substance of the case - and it is known that the Advocate General was the liaison magistrate between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the member of the government concerned, the Secretary of State. Are there any specific rules to avoid any conflict of interest? In this case, it could easily be understood that there is a conflict of interest, since the liaison magistrate is aware of the implementation of a reparation law and that he cannot take certain initiatives. It seems to have opened up, if the information published in the press is correct and if the statements made by lawyers to the French police services are also correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, it is true that without the investigative work of the press and that of the Belgian and French investigators, which could prove to be one of the greatest state scandals in recent history, a fortiori if the facts were confirmed, would have remained hidden. Let's not hide it. If this manipulation is confirmed, this interventionism of a neighbouring State in the sovereignty of our State and in the autonomy of its powers, at the initiative of an eminent parliamentarian, given its past functions and its influence in the spheres of power, is unprecedented. It is probably a case that will take on a historical dimension if the facts are confirmed – but they are already substantial, since the testimonies, since what the press reports is confirming, are overwhelming. I'm not going to ask you questions that may still fall within the scope of investigative duties. One thing to be surprised, however, is that an investigating judge has not yet been brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's pretty amazing. I say this because, as you have a reflection on the future role of the investigating judge, this case clearly demonstrates the importance of the role of an investigative judge independent of the prosecutor's office. If the facts which are still reported by the press and which call into question a general lawyer are proved, it is not possible for the prosecutor's office not to entrust the continuation of the investigation and investigation to an investigating magistrate independent of the prosecutor's office. That's a finding. One may wonder why so far the prosecution has not put this case to trial. I would not like there to be any doubt tomorrow about the Prosecutor's ability to contribute to full transparency and the truth of the facts in this case. Secondly, as Minister of Justice, you can question the superior magistrates. Today, Mr. De Wolf is no longer a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office. He is a judge of the seat. Following these revelations, did you ask his superior, the president of the Brussels Court of Appeal, to start the proceedings, at least at the hearing, of Mr. Wolf to check his version of the facts? It would be difficult to understand whether the judicial authority took any initiative in this case in order to ascertain whether a magistrate who had dealt with the case, in the context now known, had ensured strict compliance with the law and the circulars issued by the Attorney-General's Office. I therefore wonder what the procedure which may be initiated by the superiors of the Advocate General mentioned in this case – I say not in question, but quoted – is today in order to verify, if necessary, his version at the time he dealt with this case. You announced that the investigative duties would be completed in the near future. In answer to a previous question, you also said "in a short time". What do you mean by "short-term" and "short-term"? Perhaps it is not for the Minister of Justice to know what the course of the investigation can be and its precise content, but do you think that, if there is an end to the investigative duties within a reasonable and close time, Parliament should take up the aspect that I call the "political" aspect of this matter? Regardless of what the criminal consequences would be, there is at least a political assessment to make of this case. That is why I have resubmitted my proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I would like to thank the colleagues who wanted to join this proposal. It will be debated in due course. It would be difficult to understand that the executive power, which you represent in this case, does not accept that an investigation can be carried out into the political links in this case, and in particular, because it is the root cause of this whole issue, the political links that made Mr. De Decker intervened, it seems, since he himself would have said so, at the request of the entourage of the President of the French Republic. As I said, this is a serious violation of the sovereignty of our State, of the independence of its powers. Whatever the criminal consequences, we cannot, if we have any sense of the dignity of our functions, leave this aspect of things under the bushel and not have the courage to deal with it in the open in a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Why a parliamentary committee of inquiry? Because it has investigative powers that no other parliamentary committee has. It would be a false leak to say that we would make a kind debate in the Committee on Justice on the subject. This is much more than what needs to be done, it is a real work of hearings with the powers of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I hope that the executive will not hinder the Parliament's ability to assume the fullness of its powers, even though there would have been an attempt to use the legislative power at the time to serve particular interests in a matter of particular gravity. Is it worth recalling that Mr Chodiev and his colleagues were charged with serious offences and that we are probably not dealing with the most honest clients to whom the Belgian courts had to deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u24	Mr. Chair, Minister, this case is an explosive cocktail, the ingredients of which are class justice, conflicts of interest that could prove to be quite serious and a sign of dysfunction in the justice system that is challenging. In 2011, there is a transitional period in the application of the law of extension of the criminal transaction from 16 May (date of promulgation of the law) to 11 August (date of promulgation of a law of correction). Normally, during this transitional period, transactions could not be granted, except in exceptional circumstances. And yet, Mr Chodiev benefited from a transaction sealed on 17 June 2011, during this period. The newspaper Le Soir of this 14 November 2016 published excerpts from a circular which would be dated 18 May 2011 and signed by the then Brussels Attorney General, Marc de le Court. I quote: "I have the honour to draw your attention to the law published in the Monitor on Friday, May 6, 2011. To the extent that the scope of application is reduced in the law of reparation, it is currently contraindicated to apply this new article 216 of the Code of Criminal Investigation and to propose transactions until the law of reparation has been published in the Monitor." This circular, which you are going to confirm or not exist, would add: "If, however, in quite exceptional circumstances, you feel you have to propose such a transaction, I should be given a detailed report justifying these particular circumstances and seek my consent in advance." The same edition of the Soir cites a hearing of Mrs Catherine Degoul, French lawyer for Mr Chodiev, where she states that the text of the criminal transaction and a draft indictment were drafted not by Advocate General M. From Wolf, but directly by Mr. Chodiev's lawyers. Minister, when was the criminal transaction with Mr. Chodiev concluded? Why was it in this transitional period, which normally excluded such an agreement? Has a detailed report been provided to the Attorney General to justify this transaction? Has there been any prior agreement from the Attorney General? If this report exists, is it possible to obtain a copy? Do you confirm that the text of the transaction and a draft indictment were drafted by Mr. Chodiev's lawyers? If so, how do you judge such facts? Finally, do you not consider, Mr. Minister, that this case reveals serious obstacles to the separation of powers, particularly with regard to the actions of Mr. Chodiev's lawyers? I point out here in particular the Belgian parliamentarian, Armand De Decker, but also Mr. De Wolf, whose caps are multiple and who acts, at the same time, at the level of the judiciary as Advocate General, at the level of the legislature as adviser to the CD&V parliamentarians on the issue of the expansion of the criminal transaction and at the level of the executive as liaison lawyer in the Cabinet of Ministers of Carl Devlies, then Secretary of State in charge of the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u25	Mr President, gentlemen, my answer is threefold. As regards, first of all, the legislative process, you will recall that this process led, in two stages, to the expansion of the criminal transaction, the first step being the law of 14 April 2011 containing various provisions. This bill was tabled in the House on February 11, 2011 in the Finance and Budget Committee. The article providing for the enlargement of the criminal transaction was introduced by an amendment No. 18 by MPs Servais Verherstraeten, Gwendolyn Rutten, Guy Coëme, Carina Van Cauter, Josy Arens, Raf Terwingen and Philippe Goffin. The wish of the authors of this amendment was to allow the criminal transaction to be extended to offences punishable by imprisonment for more than five years. With regard to the material scope of Article 216bis, the text provided for the possibility of a criminal transaction "where the Crown prosecutor considers that a contravention, an offence or a crime liable to be corrected, pursuant to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act of 4 October 1867 on mitigating circumstances, must require only a fine or a fine with confiscation". This amendment was not disputed in the House's Justice Committee, and the text was voted in plenary on 17 March 2011. The text was then referred to by the Senate, which submitted it to its Committee on Justice. During the debates in the Senate, university professors, Raf Verstraeten and Adrien Masset, identified a fundamental problem regarding the material scope of the text under review. Indeed, if a crime is corrected, according to article 80 of the Criminal Code, the minimum penalty is one month. Unless an unlawful sentence is required, the King's prosecutor cannot simply demand a simple fine. As already stated, the proposed criminal transaction regime is only possible when the King's prosecutor considers that he should only impose a fine or a fine with confiscation. In this process, the law, contrary to the wishes of the authors, might therefore fail to achieve its objective, for in important social and fiscal affairs there are almost always false scriptures. Despite these objections, the parliamentarians decided to maintain the original text while immediately drafting a law on reparation, with the aim that these two pieces of legislation would enter into force at the same time. Second stage: the Act of 11 July 2011 amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, and article 7 of the Act of 6 June 2010 introducing the Social Penal Code. This law of reparation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Christine Defraigne, Francis Delperée, Philippe Mahoux, Martine Taelman and Peter Van Rompuy. The justification for the material scope of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation referred specifically to the interventions of university professors Verstraeten and Masset and their objections to the material scope of the law. As a result, the legislator clearly agreed with the interpretation of the original text developed by these professors. In addition, the objective of an effective simultaneous entry into force of the text extending the criminal transaction and that of reparation was explicitly recalled during parliamentary proceedings in the Senate, by Minister of Justice Stefaan De Clerck, and in the House by MP Verherstraeten. As far as the legislative context is concerned, this is the first part of my response. Secondly, on the implementation of the new legal provisions by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the so-called "Kazakhgate" case, the Attorney General of Brussels sent me the following reply, which I translate to you: "The Minister of Justice wrote to the College of Attorneys General on 2 May 2011 stating that, for the proper functioning of the law of 14 April 2011 on the criminal transaction as well as the provisions of the future law on reparation, which was pending at that time in Parliament, were to be applied together and that, in order to ensure that under the law on various provisions, pending the publication of the law on reparation, the Minister would ask the College to issue a circular to that effect. At the request of the Minister of Justice, by the same letter of 2 May 2011, the new provisions on the expanded criminal transaction were discussed during the meeting of the College of Attorneys General, the Council of Attorneys of the King and the Council of Labour Auditors under the chairmanship of the Minister of Justice, it was decided that the Attorney General of Antwerp would prepare two circulars on the expanded criminal transaction: one to indicate that it was not recommended to make use of the new legal provisions before the law of reparation had entered into force and one on the expanded criminal transaction as such. By letter dated 26 May 2011, the President of the College of Attorneys General transmitted to the Minister of Justice a copy of the circular which had been circulated by each Attorney General to the King's prosecutors and to the auditors of the work within his jurisdiction. In this letter to the Minister of Justice, however, the President of the College stated that, pending the entry into force of the law on reparations, he joined his colleagues at the College of Brussels and Antwerp for whom the possibility of resorting to a criminal transaction was not totally excluded in the meantime, but was subject to special attention and prior authorization from the General Prosecutor's Office. The circular was issued by the Attorney General of Brussels on 18 May 2011 within his jurisdiction. This is Circular PG3/2011 of 18 May 2011, which can be communicated to Parliament." I have a copy with me. "This circular therefore referred to the possibility for the King's prosecutors and labour auditors, in quite exceptional circumstances, if they felt they had to propose such a criminal transaction, to submit a detailed report to the Attorney General justifying these particular circumstances and to seek his consent in advance." In the case in question, the appeal was brought after consultation between the King's Prosecutor and the Attorney General against the order of the Chamber of Counsel of 18 February 2011, on the grounds that the order, in addition to the dismissal of the main accused, was not in conformity with the prosecutor's request, since the Chamber of Counsel declared part of the public action inadmissible. Since, in the disputed case, the criminal transaction was carried out by the Attorney-General's Office, there is no report from the King's Prosecutor to the Attorney-General to request the criminal transaction. I quote the current Attorney General, always translating him: "The Attorney General and the first Advocate General have been properly informed, by the magistrate in charge of the case, of the progress of the extended criminal procedure in this case. On 17 June 2011, the minutes containing the extended criminal transaction agreement were signed, according to Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. By judgment of 30 June 2011, the Indictments Chamber found that the parties which had accepted the agreement had complied with it and therefore found that the public action had been terminated." The Prosecutor-General of Brussels, in his letter addressed to me, states the following. I will quote it this time, literally, in Dutch. This extended friendly settlement could still be concluded after the entry into force of the repair law of 11 July 2011. I continue with the quotation of the letter from the Prosecutor General of Brussels, translating it again. "With regard to the burglary between 3 and 6 June 2011, in the office of the judge holding office at the General Prosecutor's Office, located in the Brussels courthouse, I can inform you that the criminal proceedings did not provide any information which could lead to the identification of the authors, nor to any connection with the files processed by this magistrate. The other issues relate to the ongoing criminal investigation. In order not to endanger this criminal investigation and to preserve the presumption of innocence and the rights of the defence and in view of the secrecy of the investigation, no further information may be provided. I can confirm, however, that the criminal investigation is in its final phase." With regard to the third set of questions concerning the number of criminal transactions allegedly carried out during the interim period between 16 May 2011 and 11 August 2011, the Prosecutor General of Brussels informed me that there were no official statistics to answer this question, since the computer system did not allow the specific registration of this transaction at that time. Indeed, it was only after the entry into force of a joint circular of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General of 30 May 2012 that criminal transactions were specifically registered in order to enable the Public Prosecutor's Office, if necessary, to report on the number of criminal transactions or those that were refused. However, according to a manual check carried out at the five public prosecutors' offices, in addition to the case in question, there appears to have been, without absolute certainty, only one case within the jurisdiction of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, where a criminal transaction has closed the proceedings for some defendants, while others prefer to continue the proceedings. I have no further information on this point at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u26	Minister, I welcome the effort. Usually, it is much more difficult to obtain information. However, I am still hungry for specific questions that have been asked. You will allow me, on the basis of the last part of your reply, to confirm my astonishment at the FPS Justice's inability to provide more accurate statistics and information on the number and nature of criminal transactions. I think this is a real gap on the part of the original law. I'm coming to your point one. From the outset, our group has challenged the way in which we legislate without the advice of the Council of State. In the meantime, the text has been broken by the Constitutional Court in an extremely rapid manner. The substance of the text creates a form of justice that allows those who have the means to escape punishment. You recalled the legislative path of the text, which we know, since we were on the front line on the file. You will confess that it is not common to vote at the same time a law and a law correcting it. You will also admit, and this is one of the elements of the problem, that you have failed to bring the two laws into force at the same time. We stressed this and until the last moment we had tabled amendments to try to avoid the current problems, but they were rejected. For the rest, with regard to the application of the directives given by the Minister of Justice and relayed by the Attorneys-General, I can only be surprised that the law in Belgium is applicable everywhere except at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office, since you indicate in your reply that a choice has been made at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office to provide for an exception to the rule of non-application of the law between May and August 2011. I can only be astonished by this fact, which is confirmed by the fact that there is, if we understand correctly, a case which has been the subject of an amicable criminal transaction. As far as the matter before us is concerned, you confirm, Mr. Minister of Justice, that there has been no written report and justification by the Advocate General for the reasons which might justify an amicable criminal transaction. Why? Why didn't you abide by this rule governing what was already an exception, which eventually allowed a transaction to be implemented on June 17th? What justified, on the merits, the granting of a criminal transaction on 17 June 2011 without a legal basis to Mr Chodiev and his two acolytes? This question remains absolutely unanswered. It alone, Minister of Justice, justifies our request to set up a commission of inquiry. I think this Parliament should be able to hear the then Attorney General, the Advocate General and the judges who, on 30 June, validated this transaction, which had no legal basis. You have made the effort to answer me a little more precisely than you usually do in this case, on which I have been following you for a few years now, and your predecessors too; please excuse me, but I am doing my job of controlling the executive. However, there are still areas of shadow which are enormous in terms of the motivations for decisions, not only in contradiction with the circulars of the prosecutors general, but literally illegal, without a legal basis, and when we are also aware - as the press has reminded us - of the external pressure exerted on the Belgian State in this matter. So we've also touched the legislature. Our Parliament has legislated in an absolutely unqualified manner. Someone or a few people in the government are convinced that it was the Kern to make these amendments to the law and the judiciary is also involved. Why? I ask myself the question and I think it really deserves further parliamentary investigative work, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u27	Mr Minister, I would like to join Mr Gilkinet's thanks for all the elements that you have given us, both the summary of the course of the various legislations and the elements that have been put in place to respond to certain problems. I'll come. In addition, you reminded us of the situation with regard to statistical issues, etc. The first mistake in this case is that it is not realized that there is no transitional provision or date of entry into force in relation to the first text to be voted on. The then minister of justice realizes this and rightly says: "Okay, we're going to make a law of reparation! I have to take an attitude and a measure. So I'm going to check with the College of Attorneys General. Let's fix this first mistake." I believe that when the Minister of Justice asks for a directive, a circular from the College of Attorneys General, he has an interesting approach. That's right, the law is there, it's regular. It was voted and promulgated. It has entered into force. She's here! Someone decides to apply it; it applies it. To say that the legal basis is questionable, I hear it well, but there are courts and tribunals to say so. That is what our Constitutional Court will say. In any case, the legal text is there. It was voted by parliament. It is published and in force. But what about its implementation? As we know, it's the prosecutors who say at some point, "Sir, I'm offering you a deal." They don't have to. At that time, the initiative of the Minister of Justice is to say: "Attention, we are going to make a law of reparation. I want a circular from the Attorney General's office. So I don't want the King's prosecutors, prosecutors general, auditors and others to implement the law and therefore make proposals." The circular is binding on all when it is issued by the College of Attorneys General. I do not understand why it is an individual circular, from each prosecutor general, addressed to his general prosecutor's office, to the various prosecution offices of the king's prosecutor or to the auditorates. The strength of the circular of the College of Attorneys General is much more important - it is binding on all, without any discussion possible - than the individual circular of each of the Attorneys General. I have no doubt for a second that you will still be digging into this case, as you have done so far, for the reasons why the College of Attorneys General does not make this kind of decision. Each Attorney General therefore sends a circular copy, which you have told us, to his Advocates General, to his Prosecutors of the King, to his auditors, etc., while specifying that there is the possibility of a transaction if the circumstances are special. It therefore requires a report to the Attorney General and prior agreement. I have not heard that it does not apply to the Advocate General, that he may not comply with the procedure. Unless the circular says something else. It would be wise if it were tabled in Parliament, if all the documents were tabled in Parliament. I'm not doing the same analysis as you. It is not because it is Advocate General De Wolf who makes a proposal for a settlement, since he is seized of the case, that he must not write a report to his Attorney General of the Court, in order for him to sign his prior agreement on the report in question, to justify that these are indeed special, exceptional circumstances. These are important elements. There are clearly instructions that have been given and that are not followed. There's a request for a parliamentary inquiry. There are clearly elements that need to be developed in this case. I asked you earlier about the possible initiation of administrative and/or disciplinary procedures. I finally got the answer. These procedures have obviously not been initiated. The Attorney General was of the opinion that this was not a problem, since he is a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office and, therefore, the circular did not apply to him, if I understood correctly. I find this particularly short. When we ask for justifications, it applies to everyone, whether we are the first Advocate General or Advocate General. I thank you for reviewing the statistics, but I admit my astonishment. In Belgium, we are compiling statistics on everything, even more so within the Ministry of Justice. You tell us that there has been no official registration, but that your department is now in charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u29	In general, there are statistics on everything that is possible and imaginable. This is even part of the work of the magistrate, who is obliged to prepare reports. I am surprised that both files were not reported. I am thinking in particular of the one on Chodiev. I assume the other is within the jurisdiction of the Antwerp Court of Appeal. I hope he's not a jeweller or a diamond dealer. Clearly, the press seems to indicate that it was only in these two cases that these laws were applied, namely, diamond dealers and Kazakhs. I believe that we will, unfortunately, still have to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer, which does not clarify the whole issue, but has the merit, at the very least, of accrediting the malaise surrounding the Chodiev case. Indeed, we already knew that, for the legislative power, the procedure followed in the House had been particularly twisted. But, moreover, when you describe the way in which the two criminal transaction files have been dealt with by the judiciary, we can only note that, again, we are faced with exorbitant procedures. I'll qualify them that way for the moment. The real question is: now that it is established that Mr. De Decker did a job as a lobbyist, so let's call it (he himself says he did a job as a lobbyist lawyer), it is to know who, within the government of the time, who, within the parliament of the time, who, within the judiciary that knew this Chodiev case, knew the purpose of the steps taken by Mr. De Decker to have the law passed and perhaps to have it applied in a certain way to a particular case in the interest desired by the highest French political authorities. That's the real question! Which magistrates, which members of the government, which ministers, which parliamentarians knew the purpose of the whole process set up to finally achieve the result that Mr Chodiev achieved? This question is legitimate. This issue must be dealt with by the judicial authorities in the context of a criminal investigation, provided that the facts can be criminally qualified, but they must certainly be politically qualified in the light of the gravity of the approach requested by the entourage - there too, it would be necessary to identify who, in the entourage - of the then President of the French Republic, in order to obtain the result which was finally obtained. This is perhaps the most disconcerting thing: how can we believe that this work could not be carried out in the interest desired by certain authorities in France, without the help of several speakers to achieve the desired result? This is the real question we cannot escape! Some will, of course, evacuate him and will be complicit in what I call a state scandal if the facts are confirmed, or there is still a break in transparency in this country and we must accept the parliamentary committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u31	Mr Minister, first of all, what appears is that these circulars, of 18 May 2011 for Brussels and I no longer know what date for Antwerp, give instructions that do not correspond to what the law imposes, if I have understood your answer correctly. It's still challenging. Not only are we in a transaction arrangement, which is already tailor-made, and we have the impression that, in the context of this tailor-made arrangement, we are still tailor-made in the two particular cases of Brussels and Antwerp. You're telling us that the circular was asking for a report. However, there was no such thing. For me, there are two concerns: first, we do not even respect the conditions imposed to violate the law – if you pass the phrase – then, without this report, we do not know the underside of the case. I'm not saying he'd deliver them all, but we don't even know the beginning. So your answers are very problematic. They confirm what has been published in the press, but bring more questions. You did not answer my question about whether it is true that Chodiev's lawyers wrote the text of the transaction themselves and even a draft indictment. You also did not answer – what I may understand – on Mr. From Wolf, who is on top of the judiciary, legislative and executive branches. Finally, I have two conclusions, Mr Minister: that a commission of inquiry should be even more necessary after your replies; that your answer and this whole case confirm the position taken from the outset by the PTB against the criminal transaction extended to these financial crimes. We did not vote against it at the time. The PTB ruled against it. Without parliamentary representation, we have spoken against and continue to do so, as this type of business shows that in such transactions there is a whole series of conflicts of interest and dubious ties. This is intrinsic to these types of provisions. That's why we have to get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u32	In recent weeks, since the closure of the refugee camp in Calais, we have seen in the vicinity of the port of Zeebrugge that again many refugees are trying illegally to make the crossing to the United Kingdom. Over a hundred people have been arrested in the last two weeks. Those who have to maintain order there note that the refugees are very assertive and sometimes even very aggressive. They are well prepared and operate in large groups. I do not think I need to tell you about this; you have undoubtedly heard this through the media. Not so long ago, we adopted the law of 20 May 2016, which criminalizes entry into the port with a one-year prison sentence when an illegal person makes a habit of entering port facilities. More and more refugees are being apprehended now. In our committee there has been a long discussion about the definition of the term habit: is that once, is that twice. I believe that it is more than once when one speaks of a custom. How exactly is the concept defined in practice? Apparently, asylum seekers have already been arrested according to the article. Some of them have indeed already made a habit of it, according to a review. How is the concept of habit implemented in practice? On the basis of how many files do we get that description?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u33	Mrs Dumery, on your question of how, in legal practice, the legal concept of Article 564/2 of the Criminal Code in the case of the activities in question is to be applied, I can tell you the following. In the judicial district of West Flanders, where the problem arises, legal proceedings have already been instituted several times on the basis of Article 564/2 of the Criminal Code. The pressure exerted by smugglers and transmigrants on the West Flemish seaports and mainly on the port of Zeebrugge is the cause of this, because it is frequent, and during certain periods almost daily, that the port in question is invaded. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall act in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the Law of 20 May 2016 on ingress into port facilities. The preparatory work for that law stated that the mere repetition of the same fact or crime is sufficient for the concept of habit. Reference was made to the terms in Article 434 (f) of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings and to a judgment in cassation of 22 June 1999. Those who enter the port only for a second time can therefore legally be prosecuted for the intrusion with the aggravating circumstance of habit. In accordance with the preparatory work, the prosecutors shall at least take the appropriate measures, in accordance with the principle of opportunity. So far, they have taken the policy option not to prosecute first and second intruders and to give the intruder the opportunity to comply with the law in the future. This means that, at the earliest, in the event of a third intrusion, the person concerned shall be prosecuted by means of a subpoena before a proper court. In the event of a subsequent intrusion by the person concerned, a lead shall be given to an investigating judge and the arrest of the intruder shall be requested. In all judgments handed down so far by the correctional court of West Flanders, the aggravating circumstance of the custom was proved, in accordance with the prosecution's claim. A total of 12 judgments have been passed up to today. There are other cases pending before the court. It can therefore be concluded from that case-law that three times of entry into a port can in any case be treated as the aggravating circumstance of the custom. Finally, at the level of the police, the shipping police in particular, as well as at the level of the parquet and the magistrate, sufficient capacity was released to react ad brakely to the intrusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answer. The figures alone show that we in Parliament have done well to approve the legislative amendment. Once again, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have done so. With both the majority and the opposition, we were able to introduce this change very quickly, much faster than what we are used to in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u35	Minister, there are a lot of nurses working in the prison medical service. Many of them have been working with temporary employment contracts for years. A number of recruitment examinations for statutory nurses took place during the past summer, i.e. not for temporary work places. The intention was to quickly accept the success, because by the end of 2016 the contracts with the temporary agency would be terminated and therefore no nurses would come from that office. However, we are currently November 2016 and would still have no recruitments; the end of the year is in sight. Minister, how many nurses with an interim contract are currently working in the Belgian prison system? How many nurses will be recruited by law? How many candidates passed the exam? Can you confirm that the contract with the interim office expires at the end of 2016? Will the new nurses be recruited by then? If not, what measures will you take to ensure that nurses in the prison medical service can continue to work optimally in 2017? What is the possible reason for the delay? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u36	Mrs De Wit, 60 full-time equivalents are being used in the interim. The selection procedure of September 2016 resulted in 21 French and 22 Dutch laureates. The aim is to guarantee the operation of medical services in prisons with their own staff. This is independent of the quality of care provision. Interim staff are as high-quality as their own. However, it has to do with the stability of the work situation and with the cost of providing care. Interim costs are one and a half times higher. In order to be able to recruit legally, sufficient financial resources are needed on the staff envelope. This is fully supported by the budget requests and by the discussions on the 2017 budget. A transitional period will therefore be necessary to ensure that the necessary care is maintained and that the use of temporary nurses can be stopped. I am talking to Mr De Block to optimise and better manage medical care in prisons, both financially and in terms of quality of care. I hope to achieve a breakthrough in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u37	Minister, I note that by the end of 2016 you will probably not be fully ready with the implementation of statutory staff and that there will therefore be a transitional period so that medical support can continue to work. That's very reassuring. After all, it would be bad if that support stopped. We have experienced this with the CAP. If this also happens to ordinary nurses, we really have a problem in our prisons. It is certainly good that you are looking for a way to optimise care both in terms of quality and in terms of cost efficiency. As long as we don't fall into a gap, we're fine. So I note that there will be a transitional period, which will remove a great deal of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u38	Minister, the potpourri I Act of October 2015 has substantially amended the advice of the Public Prosecutor in matters relating to minors. The cases are still notified to the prosecution, but the advice has become optional. The prosecution therefore no longer gives an opinion in all cases, but only when it considers it useful. The family court can also always ask the public prosecutor to give advice and then the advice is mandatory. The new legislation creates many practical problems in the organisation of hearings in the family court in the field. First of all, the new regime is applied differently from court to court. The parties and lawyers must be properly informed in advance, as there is no homogeneous application. Furthermore, in some courts, hearings are divided into files and files without a public prosecutor's office. The problem is that this distribution is not made known in advance and that, moreover, there is no line in which files with and which files go without a public prosecutor. That creates a lot of frustration during the sessions. I have the following questions, Minister. Are you aware of the practical problems posed by the new regulation? What's your reaction? Will you take an initiative to find a solution and, if so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u39	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I have so far been informed of no problems with regard to familiarity in family matters with minors. Questioning by my administration at some civil offices shows that the organisation of the communication and the provision of advice are very diverse in practice, but that is not surprising in itself. As you know, this is also the case, among other things, with the organisation of the inaugural sessions at the family court, the demand for personal appearance, the hearing of minors and the functioning of the chambers for amicable settlement. The legislator has left a great deal of room for the family courts to organise their own proper functioning. However, with regard to the issue raised by you in particular, we would point out that Article 765/1 in conjunction with Article 764 of the Civil Code provides that, in order to ensure some uniformity in practice as well as to provide advice in cases in which it is indispensable or at least useful, the College of Attorneys-General was given the power to issue binding guidelines for the provision of an opinion in cases which may be disclosed under the law. In accordance with these provisions, the circular COL13/2015 of the College of Attorneys General was issued in the courts of appeal. The so-called "Justice Directive' relating to the opinion of the Public Prosecutor in civil matters pursuant to the Law of 19 October 2015 amending Civil Procedure Law containing various provisions of Justice. I will not fail to inform the College of Attorney General of the difficulties you have raised. The College may take any measures it deems useful within the framework of the powers conferred upon it by the legislator. Furthermore, I believe that it is appropriate to await the evaluation of the functioning of the family courts as a whole, as provided for in Article 273 of the Law of 30 June 2013 establishing a family and youth court, before taking any new measures. This could perhaps be solved by streamlining practices and implementing good practice in all family courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u40	Question No 14948 by Mr Christian Brotcorne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I was asking you last month about the establishment of the National Human Rights Institute, which should be set up before the end of this Parliament. I must ask you again, however, because some of my questions were not answered at the time, and some of your answers fed my questions or even my concerns. While you said that all the organisations and associations that defend human rights in the broad sense had been consulted, I was informed that the Human Rights League had not been consulted on this subject since June 2015. I don't know if this information is accurate. In addition, I have not obtained a list of civil society organisations that will be heard in a second round of consultation, nor a specific guarantee as to the protection of language rights and the fight against any form of discrimination based on language. As far as the latter is concerned, you will understand that I expect clear and sufficient commitments since, unfortunately, for many years there has been a legal vacuum on penalties for discrimination on the basis of language. It is well known that the 1997 law – if I remember correctly – aimed at combating all forms of discrimination does not take into account discrimination based on language. You told me that the institute that will be set up will be a dome organization that will oversee and coordinate the existing institutions. However, none of them is competent to combat language discrimination, which remains a serious gap in our institutional system. The Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities, Unia, cannot know about it, although it has expressed its wish in its last report. Minister, I would therefore like to come back to you and ask you very specific questions. Thus, which associations will be consulted again in the context of the elaboration of the cooperation agreement establishing the National Institute for Human Rights? What guarantees can you give with regard to taking into account the problem of combating discrimination based on language? This requirement is essential in that discrimination on the basis of language is the only category of discrimination for which the Centre for Equal Opportunities is still not competent. When will the bill to establish this institute be introduced? How do you intend to ensure the pluralism and independence of this future institute in its composition? As part of your second round of civil society consultation, do you undertake to meet with all the associations concerned, in particular with regard to discrimination based on language?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u42	Mr President, Mr Maingain, it is true that I have explained this matter several times in the Committee on Justice in February and last September. As you said, all the organizations and associations that are on the UPR list and that defend human rights in the broad sense were consulted in June 2015. This was also the case with organizations for the protection of children's rights, since the National Commission for the Rights of the Child would be integrated into the national human rights mechanism. As soon as the development of the dossier allows, a second round of wider consultations will be organised, to which the associations which have expressed a wish to do so are invited in any case. With regard to your second question, I have already explained that in order to respond to the Paris Principles, the mandate of the future national human rights mechanism must be able to cover, in principle, all human rights issues, including all forms of discrimination. In accordance with the Paris Principles, the starting point is that the new mechanism will exercise residual jurisdiction over mandates and activities not so far covered in Belgium. However, it will be for the mechanism itself to determine its activities and priority areas. The Government cannot therefore include specific topics in the cooperation agreement establishing the mechanism, otherwise this would undermine its independence. The establishment of an independent national human rights mechanism must be achieved through a cooperation agreement. For me, the dossier is ready to launch consultation with the Communities and the Regions. I look forward to hearing from Mrs. Sleurs' office, who co-chairs the work. The aim is to be able to sign the cooperation agreement in 2017 and declare the human rights mechanism operational by the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u43	Minister, thank you. You did not answer the specific question whether the Human Rights League had been consulted in the first round.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u44	I forgot a paragraph, Mr. Maingain. The composition of the human rights mechanism should be further defined in the cooperation agreement. In any event, pluralism and independence are prerequisites for obtaining international status A, in accordance with the Paris Principles. It is therefore obvious that its composition will satisfy it. Finally, as part of a second round of consultations with civil society, I will gladly commit myself to consult the associations that have expressed their wish to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u45	Mr Minister, the last sentence is indeed essential, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u46	Minister, we have had a singular experience in recent months, a session of the Hainaut Assize Court that has been sitting on a file that has had a great deal of media coverage. In particular, the session highlighted a problem concerning the use of languages in criminal investigation and the processing of procedural documents. Without going back to the nature of the facts, it is known that the accused was French-speaking, and that he was heard as soon as he was arrested by Dutch-speaking investigators, given the place of commission or finding of the alleged facts at that time. The minutes of the hearings drawn up by the investigators and the examining magistrate were obviously in the language of the proceedings, that is to say the Dutch language, but, after translating the statements of the person heard from the French to the Dutch language, or even other persons, but I will only speak here of the main person in question. This hearing, which constitutes one of the first fundamental parts of the procedure, had to be fully translated from Dutch to French for the session of the Hainaut Assize Court. It was indeed her who was competent. The change of language had been settled at the time of the procedure before the Indictments Chamber. Obviously, these successive translations of the documents in the file, in particular the minutes of the hearing, and a fortiori if it is the hearing of the accused person, can give rise to many approximations, contradictions, if any, and even totally incomprehensible sentences – it was also questioned by the person concerned himself – which obviously weakens the credibility of the investigation work, or even of the investigation. I have already announced, and my bill will soon be tabled, that it would be preferable to provide for a change of language in the proceedings, from the first hearing before the investigating judge. This would ensure continuity in the proceedings, in a single language. But it is a wide-ranging debate that begins with this idea of simplification with regard to the use of languages in criminal proceedings, especially those in which an investigating judge is seized. In the present case, what was the total cost for the translation of the pleadings, for the trial before the session of the Hainaut Assize Court which closed on 6 October? How many pieces had to be translated? At what point in the procedure do they correspond? I recognize that this issue may be a little detailed and may be surprising. How many people had to devote themselves to this translation work? Has this work been entrusted to external translation offices? Has there been any share in the court registry? Is there not a need for a broader reflection on the cost of translating the pleadings? You are looking for budget savings, in particular, and for greater efficiency in criminal proceedings. The cost of translating the pleadings, especially in our ambiguous system of use of languages in judicial matters, could be reviewed and would save the State a lot of time and credit. In addition, is there no reason to generalize the filmed hearing of the person liable to be charged or called into question, in any case, when he is arrested, heard by the investigators or the investigating magistrate in a region other than his region of residence and especially if it is in a language other than the language normally used by him?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u47	Mr President, Mr Maingain, I answer your questions as far as possible. The total cost of translating the documents of the case before the Hainaut assizes, which ended on 6 October, was paid through the appropriations of the provisions account available to the Registry of the Hainaut Court of First Instance. In order to ascertain to what extent the statements of costs owed to translators responsible for the translation of documents have already been received by the Registry of the Court of Assizes, have already already been budgeted and forwarded for further processing to the Registry of the Court of First Instance of Hainaut, it is necessary to question these judicial services in concrete terms. I am not in a position to communicate to you, within the very short time prescribed by this question, the total cost you wish to know, the number of documents translated, or at what specific time of the procedure these translations were carried out. The request of the translators is made by the magistrate who is in charge of the criminal case, so that it will also be possible to answer your question as to how many translators have been required to carry out the translation of the case, only after having specifically questioned the requesting magistrate and the head of the judicial services. EU Directive 2010/64 guarantees suspects and accused persons who do not speak or understand the language of the proceedings, the right to free translation of documents essential for the effective exercise of their rights to defence and, beyond that, the safeguarding of their rights to a fair trial. In any event, charges or indictments, judgements and custodial decisions are considered essential documents. In proceedings relating to the execution of a European arrest warrant, the executing Member State must provide any person covered by the warrant, who does not understand the language in which the European arrest warrant is established or in which it was translated by the issuing Member State, with a written translation of the warrant. Other documents may be considered essential for translation purposes. This should be considered on a case-by-case basis. EU Directive 2012/29 ensures that victims, who do not speak or understand the language of the proceedings, receive a translation first of all of the information made available in the Member State's national criminal justice system, which is essential for the exercise of their rights during criminal proceedings. The translation of this information shall include, as a minimum, any decision terminating the criminal proceedings relating to the criminal offence suffered by the victim, the reasons for the decision, a brief summary of these grounds, and then information on the date and place of the trial. These directives are transposed into Belgian legislation by law supplementing the transposition of EU Directives 2010/64 on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and EU Directive 2012/29 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing JHA and Council Framework Decision 2001/220. This law was ratified by the King on 28 October and will be published shortly. In addition, I confirm that the right to translation and interpretation is largely regulated in Belgian law, inter alia, by Articles 38 and 22 of the Act of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial proceedings, which provided for free translations in certain cases. Article 10/1, 2 of the Act of 19 December 2003 provides for the assistance of an interpreter and the Code of Criminal Investigation already contains many articles regulating the rights of defence of accused and victims in terms of understanding the language of the proceedings, either by written means, by means of translation or by oral means, through the presence of interpreters. As far as the filmed hearing is concerned, I do not have the answer at the moment. I could've had it. I ask you for a little patience about this. I'll send it to you as soon as possible. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that it takes a certain period of time to obtain from the Registry of the Court of First Instance of Charleroi a set of precise information on the commitment of budgetary appropriations. I assume that you will agree, Mr.Minister, to forward this information to the secretariat of the committee as soon as it is received so that I can receive it. Thank you. I would also like to thank you for having, in response to the last question, recalled the European directives which lay down a minimum set of rules on the use of languages in criminal investigations and proceedings for European nationals or persons subject to proceedings at the initiative of the judicial authorities of the European States. There is, of course, no prohibition on a State to go beyond the guarantees of the use of languages for the benefit of the person accused, charged, prosecuted, and to extend these rights of correct linguistic understanding of the criminal procedure that is weighing on it. It is therefore a debate that we can continue, particularly when we discuss the bill that I will be tabling shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u49	Mr Minister, the report of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre states that the scale of the problem of child abuse is inadequate or unknown. However, a policy can only be pursued if one knows the problem or the size of the problem. Complaints are possible with different organisations, but apparently various services have different interpretations, with the result that they register child abuse in other ways. There is therefore a lack of uniformity on the ground. Child abuse includes several categories: from rape, beatings and injuries, and neglect to family abandonment and non-release of children under rights of access. There is a code "child abuse' at the time of registration, but in certain cases registrations are recorded under a less specific code, such as for example "shapes and injuries' or "shape child in danger'. In this way, it is impossible to know the correct figures of child abuse. There is also a call for better legal regulation of relations between aid workers, police and judicial services, taking into account professional secrecy. In that context, I had a number of questions. What steps have been taken in the meantime to recognise child abuse and prevent escalation? Are you prepared to better coordinate existing systems related to the use of definitions and definitions? If so, at what time? Will there be an adaptation of the general framework allowing certain services to report child abuse with greater confidence? Is uniform registration provided for by police and public prosecutors? If so, when can this be expected? Will the information relating to the physical, psychological and sexual integrity of minors, as well as violence against minors, be centralised? How and on what service will that happen? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u50	Mrs Uyttersprot, the concept of child abuse is a very generic term. There is no uniform definition used by the various authorities. Nevertheless, there is one constant, namely Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Child abuse may be about rape, beatings and injuries, murder, but may as well be about neglect, family abandonment, non-giving children and so on. In applying the principle of subsidiarity, youth assistance for intra-family child abuse is considered the most appropriate way to tackle these forms of violence against children. Within the various Communities, therefore, the situations of child abuse are primarily directed towards the competent services, which means that the police, the police and the court are not necessarily aware of these situations. Nevertheless, an integrated and integrated policy has been in place in Belgium for several years. I refer to the protocol on child abuse of March 2010, which was officially signed by the then Minister of Justice and the Flemish Minister of Welfare and updated in May 2014. It also contains a step-by-step plan for child abuse, which is a guide for the various professionals and on the basis of which the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse was established. In the short term, it is also intended to modulate the Roadmap on child abuse for the police forces, with a Roadmap on child abuse, and to provide police officers on the ground with a checklist to further improve the approach. In the French-speaking German-speaking part of the country there is also a protocol d'intervention "maltraitance des enfants" entre le secteur médico-psycho-social et le secteur judiciaire, and there is a structural consultative body, namely the Conférence permanent de concertation "Maltraitance." A brochure was worked out "Que faire si je suis confronté à une situation de maltraitance?," "Que faire si je suis confronté à une situation de maltraitance?" approved by the various relevant Ministers of Justice, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Walloon Region. The framework note "Integral Safety 2016-2019' also addresses a specific form of child abuse, namely sexual abuse of children, and in particular the forms committed or facilitated via the Internet. The aim is to tackle them in an effective and integrated way, both through Community awareness-raising campaigns and through appropriate measures at federal level, for example by improving inter-service training using special detection methods. There is not really a reporting code at the moment, but there are several roadmaps, roadmaps and circulars that pay attention to the approach of this phenomenon. As you know, I do not believe that the legally regulated exceptions to the professional secrecy laid down in Article 458 of the Criminal Code are far enough away. In recent years, several important projects on child abuse and intra-family violence have tested the limits of professional secrecy by setting up a case-by-case consultation between the various actors involved. I refer to projects like the Protocol of Courage, CO3, Link, and De Korte Keten. In fact, the necessary case-by-case consultation that in some of these projects is being settled in the Family Justice Centers which find further expansion in Flanders lacks a legal basis. Hence my support for the legislative proposal of People's Representative Raf Terwingen, which aims to make a further extension of the right to speak legally possible for various forms and contexts of case-consultation. Finally, I also refer to the COL 3/2006, which developed a uniform definition of intra-family violence and extra-family child abuse, and the identification and registration of the files by the police and the public prosecutors. Unfortunately, given that priority is given to updating the charge codes to the detriment of the context codes, such as the (...) intrafamily descendants, certain child abuse files are not recorded uniformly in the statistical databases. However, good registration is a continuing concern of myself as well as of the various judicial and judicial services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u51	Minister, you conclude with what I started with, in particular that good registration is a source of much information. Measuring is a sure thing, especially in this business. Apparently they are working on a schematic or checklist for the field. This afternoon I just had the honour of attending the presentation of the annual report of the Commissioner responsible for Children's Rights. It also refers to a meeting of the European Network of Children's Ombudsmen, which proposed ten measures which could be very interesting for a drastic reduction in child abuse. It is interesting to include those ten measures listed in the report and, if necessary, to include them in the checklist, because they have already been researched at European level. I'd be happy to give you the suggestion to check that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u52	Minister, the new pro-Deo system has been in place since 1 September. On the one hand, it strengthens the conditions for second-line assistance. From now on, all revenues, including assets, will be charged. All suspicions also become rebuttable. A kind of brake fee is also introduced. On the other hand, the nomenclature is being reformed. Lawyers are now more closely monitored on the number of points for the work done. Almost simultaneously with the introduction of the new pro-Deo system, the Court of Justice has also ruled on the VAT exemption for lawyers' services. According to the European Directive, a reduced VAT rate can only be applied to welfare and social security activities of a charity. More specifically, the Constitutional Court asked the Court of Justice whether pro-Deo services are exempt from VAT. It is feared that the 0% levy will be called into question. This will entail considerable costs not only for the government, but also for the lawyer, who sometimes has to wait two years for the compensation on the other hand. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is there any chance that VAT will have to be paid on pro-Deo performance? Will this fall within the closed envelope that is now being provided? If VAT is to be paid, should lawyers advance it, as is customary for VAT, while they only receive the payment of the fee more than a judicial year later?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, you summarise the most important changes concerning the legal assistance that entered into force on 1 September 2016. I would like to add a reference to the new income limits that will apply from 1 September 2016 in order to qualify for second-line legal assistance. These limits were increased and now amount to EUR 978 for a single person and EUR 1 255 for a single person with a dependent person or living with his husband or with any other person with whom he is an actual family. With regard to free of charge, the forks apply from 978 to a maximum of 1 255 euros for a single person and from 1 255 to 1 531 euros for those who are an actual family. The Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment on 28 July 2016 on a reference for a preliminary ruling made by our Constitutional Court on the interpretation of the VAT Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax. In the current state of the proceedings, I cannot yet clarify the consequences of that judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union because we are still waiting for the judgment of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic535x.u54	Minister, that is clear. We shall await the response. In view of the conditions, however, I fear that we are already aware of the final judgment in this matter. At the time, on 1 January 2014, when the VAT for lawyers was introduced, we felt already wetness. The fact that the exemption was not introduced at the time, but the reduced rate of 0 %, was perhaps already somewhat a harbinger at that time. We can only hope that we will be able to get an effective conclusion quickly. If that conclusion is reached, we hope that the fund will be able to join at the same time, so that the additional costs can be met, because in addition to the costs under the Salduz legislation, the pro-Deo fee may also increase by 21%.
