ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you all enjoyed a good holiday and that the batteries are charged to fight it. Our first meeting is about Turkey. First, the Minister has the opportunity to make an introductory statement and then I give the floor to the members of the committee, first those who have bothered to put forward an oral question and then the others can join in. Minister, I have heard that you have other obligations. Can you tell me what time you wish to leave the committee meeting so that I can try to arrange speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u2	Normally at 4:00 p.m., Mr President, although I think it will be a little later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u3	Yeah, it'll probably be a little later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u4	Mr President, I will try not to take too long, but there are many elements to mention. I'll start with a repeat of the facts. On 15 July around 16:00, the Turkish intelligence service MIT receives the message from other intelligence services that there would be a coup d'état in Turkey. From 22:00 onwards, between 3 000 and 5 000 soldiers from different military components and rank will roll out tanks in the streets of Istanbul and into air strikes on the Turkish Parliament, among others. The displeasure of parts of the army as a result of a wave of redundancies and lost promotions expected in August 2016 would have been an important reason. The timing of the coup d'état, in the evening rather than in the middle of the night, shows that the putschists have rushed. However, it gave President Erdogan the opportunity to mobilize the population into the streets. The population came to the streets in large numbers. The violence that took place all night demanded more than 246 deaths and 2 000 injuries. The attempted coup was written relatively quickly by President Erdogan on the conto of the Gülen movement and his US resident leader Fethullah Gülen. It appears that the composition of the group putschists would probably be more diverse. I can tell you that I am obviously not in a position to comment further on the authors of this coup attempt or on Fetullah Gülen's involvement in the organisation of this putsch. The state of emergency entered into force on 21 July for a period of three months, renewable on the basis of article 20 of the Constitution. In this context, the executive may govern by decree, thus not subject to judicial review by the Constitutional Court. Several decrees were adopted, with the following consequences: extension of the period of police custody to 30 days; freedom for law enforcement officials to carry out searches without the supervision of a judge; strengthening the authority of prosecutors and limiting the rights of defence lawyers; closure of many institutions considered to be linked to the Fetullah Gülen movement – more than one hundred and thirty media, but also companies, universities, schools, etc. – the dismissal of many officers from the army, the gendarmerie, the police; the structural and organizational change of the army. Purges continue within the state apparatus. The numbers are constantly changing. The current estimate is as follows: 80,000 suspended staff, another 6,000 dismissed, including more than 4,000 military personnel. In addition to the military and the police, the sectors most affected are education, health and justice. In addition, 20,000 people were arrested for links with the Gülen mobility. Purges also affect large public companies and the private sector - seizing companies, placing them under guardianship, arresting CEOs - as well as the very apparatus of the ruling party: the AKP. An in-depth restructuring of the military and intelligence apparatus is under way. The Gendarmerie and the Coast Guard are transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. The civilian control of the army is strengthened. The intelligence services of MIT (Millî İstihbarat Teşkilati, National Intelligence Organization) lose their powers in terms of internal intelligence to the benefit of the police and gendarmerie. In terms of human rights, one of the first steps taken by the Government was to resort to article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 4 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in order to derogate from certain obligations in this regard. It should be stressed that, even under this derogation, Turkey continues to have obligations to respect in terms of human rights. This has been pointed out to him on several occasions, in particular by the Council of Europe bodies. Moreover, even where temporary derogations are permitted under the Convention, the Turkish authorities remain bound to respect the criteria of necessity and proportionality in the measures they undertake. Despite these obligations, which remain, despite the state of emergency, we have serious concerns about compliance with the criteria of necessity, proportionality criteria and fundamental rights. At least 131 media outlets have been closed and more than 100 journalists arrested, which constitutes a serious violation of freedom of expression. NGOs reported torture and ill-treatment. Violations of the rights of defence and intimidation of lawyers are reported. Passports are improperly suspended, thus depriving lawyers, journalists, academics, businessmen, etc. of the right to leave the country or to travel from third countries. As I have told my Turkish interlocutors, it is legitimate for those who have fomented the coup to be prosecuted. But the presumption of innocence must prevail, as must the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. The rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial must be respected. At the institutional level, I believe that the Council of Europe is the preferred platform for ensuring that the various initiatives taken by President Erdogan do not endanger human rights, the rule of law and democracy in Turkey. In addition to the European Court of Human Rights, the Council of Europe has established a significant number of mechanisms, some of which seem particularly relevant in the current context such as the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Venice Commission. I strongly support the missions of these institutions to Turkey and this has been reminded of the Turkish authorities. On the ground, I also support a pro-active policy for human rights defenders. Our diplomatic posts take part in concrete solidarity initiatives to defend fundamental rights. I regularly instruct our diplomats to attend trials of journalists or other categories of persons prosecuted for reasons that we believe contradict Turkey's international commitments. For example, our embassy in Ankara recently seized the European Union delegation in Turkey in order to reinvigorate exchanges in the field of human rights protection and to coordinate concrete support actions, including with regard to the situation of the recently arrested journalists. Another example: our Consulate General in Istanbul attended this Friday, 2 September, the open trial against journalists from the P24 platform. I would like to address the situation in Belgium and the impact of this coup attempt and the reactions that have taken place in Turkey on the situation in Belgium. The Belgian authorities reacted very quickly to condemn the coup d'état. On the night of 15 July, I called for a return to calm and respect for constitutional order and spoke by telephone with the Turkish Minister for Relations with the European Union, Ömer çelik. On the morning of July 16, the Prime Minister and I issued a joint press release. Our unequivocal condemnation of the coup d'état is accompanied by a call to respect the rule of law and the expression of our concern about massive arrests and suspensions and violations of fundamental rights. I also reminded my Turkish colleague Ömer çelik at the meeting we held on Saturday with all the foreign ministers of the European Union. I also made a clear statement on the red line that would be the restoration of the death penalty in Turkey. If Turkey were to decide on such a reintroduction, the negotiations on accession to the European Union could not continue. Fortunately, it has been noted since mid-August that the Turkish authorities are less vocal on this issue and that no parliamentary initiative has been undertaken to date. I believe that the firm position taken by Belgium, like many other partners in the European Union and the European Union itself, has had an influence on this development of the situation in Turkey. I also note with deep concern that the climate of polarisation prevailing in Turkey has repercussions in Belgium and is fuelling tensions between supporters of the AKP and persons and associations considered to be linked to the Gulenist movement. Like many others associated with the Gülen movement, Zaman Belçika's editor-in-chief has received many messages of intimidation. Parents of students attending schools in the Stars or schools in Lucerna were also threatened. Acts of vandalism were committed against property and buildings. Faced with the height of these bullying campaigns, which are particularly virulent on social media, a dome of some seven hundred gulenist-inspired organizations Fedactio, filed a complaint against X. It was in this context that I requested the convening by my services of the Turkish Ambassador on 20 July. He received very strong messages against any Turkish interference in Belgium during this interview. The Turkish Ambassador in Brussels reacted constructively, including by contacting certain political authorities, including to apologize. I recall that tensions tend to decrease, but I remain very attentive to developments, in coordination with my colleagues in the Interior and Justice, directly concerned with the maintenance of public order and the possible prosecution of troublemakers. In order to assess the impact of events in Turkey on matters relating to the competences of other departments, I have put in place a very wide-ranging consultation, the "Task Force Turkey", which meets in Foreign Affairs. At the end of August, we had another meeting. My concern about the import of tensions into the communities of the Turkish diaspora is shared by my European colleagues. At the informal Council of Foreign Ministers held in Bratislava on Saturday, 3 September, we had a constructive exchange on how to prevent these tensions from getting worse, particularly in the context of the school year. Until proven otherwise, Belgium does not consider as dangerous or terrorist the activities carried out by associations and schools legally established in Belgium which would have ideological or programmatic affinities with the Gülen mobility. Unlike some Member States, Belgium has not received any formal action from the Turkish authorities to close or prosecute some of these institutions. If that were to be the case, it would be answered that any such request must be accompanied by evidence and follow the appropriate legal procedure (request for mutual legal assistance, request for extradition, etc.).). Any request will thus be considered within the framework of the legislation in force in our country. With regard to the situation in south-eastern Turkey and, in particular, the Kurdish question, in addition to the consequences of the attempted coup d'état, the Kurdish question and the situation in this part of Turkey remain extremely worrying. The security situation has deteriorated sharply in Turkey, on the Syrian border, in the south-east, but also in the country's major cities. Turkey is facing a double terrorist threat and is undergoing repeated attacks by the PKK and Daesh. The continuation of military operations in the south-east is accompanied by an increase in terrorist attacks by the PKK not only in the south-east but also in other cities in the country. The latest heavy-weapon or car bomb attacks mainly target law enforcement officials, while causing a large number of civilian casualties. On several occasions, I have condemned the attacks carried out by the PKK which we consider to be a terrorist organisation in the European Union and I have reminded the Turkish authorities of our willingness to continue cooperation in the fight against terrorism. Having said that, the Kurdish question will only have a political outcome in the context of an inclusive peace and negotiation process. It is important to distinguish the terrorist organisation PKK from a political party represented in parliament, the HDP, which is a legitimate political interlocutor in an inclusive process of resolving the Kurdish question. As regards the security of Belgian interests in Turkey, and in particular that of Belgian tourists, my services are following the situation very closely, in coordination with the OCAM. Our travel notice is regularly updated to reflect developments on the ground. We consider that the terrorist threat has thus increased considerably throughout Turkey and that further attacks are not to be excluded in the coming weeks and months. These can also target Western interests and tourists. Even if Belgians are not specifically targeted, greater vigilance remains. To date, I can confirm that this travel notice is very similar to those of the major European capitals. There are also a number of other issues relating to the situation in Turkey, sometimes also in cooperation with Turkey. I am thinking here of a number of geopolitical developments. First and foremost around Syria and our anti-Daesh or anti-IS coalition. The Turkish operations in Syria had to liberate Jarablus from Daesh. However, criticism is increasing because Turkish actions are increasingly targeting Kurdish fighters, including Syrian Democratic Forces. The FSA fighters, who are carrying out the actions in and around Jarablus together with Turkey, after all, the resources deployed by Turkey have also been subject to restrictions, which can hardly be described as moderate and are grounds for concern. Jarablus would be under FSA control by now. Most of the Kurdish fighters would have been withdrawn behind the Euphrates by now, as Turkey also asks. However, the fighting between Kurdish and Daesh forces around Manbij, which was recently recaptured on Daesh, continues, with the help of US air support. Here too, there is a risk of confrontation with FSA troops, who would move towards Manbij with Turkey's support. The United States had announced a provisional agreement between Turkey and the Kurdish troops in order to avoid direct confrontations. However, that agreement was immediately denied by Turkey. On Sunday, the meeting between President Obama and President Erdogan at the G20-Top was an opportunity to discuss this. On the occasion of the Foreign Affairs Council in Bratislava, my European counterparts and I had an in-depth exchange on the situation in Syria, where the priority must be the fight against Daesh. Turkey must commit itself as a matter of priority within the coalition against this organisation rather than opening a new front against Syrian Kurdish forces. We must also encourage him to better coordinate his actions with the other members of the coalition. Turkey is also a member of NATO, so they must also be reminded of our cooperation in defence and security in Europe. Turkey is a strategic ally of NATO. After the United States, Turkey has the largest military apparatus of its allies and geostrategically plays a pivotal role between the West and the Black Sea Strategic Area, a crossroads of regional spheres of influence. Turkey has an important NATO headquarters in Izmir. Much of the air operations against Daesh are conducted from the Incirlik base, which is not a NATO base. Also in the context of the fight against Daesh, NATO Awacs fighters fly into Turkish airspace. Patriotic batteries of NATO allies have been installed on Turkish territory as an assurance measure to protect Turkish airspace from intruders from Syria. This decision was taken by all NATO partners and is carried out by a number of them, including the Netherlands. In the context of the refugee and migration problems, it is important to highlight the activities made available by NATO in the Aegean Sea to curb the influx of illegal refugees. This leads to information between maritime NATO components and national authorities, including Turkey, and Frontex, the European Agency. With regard to the impact on NATO of abuses in terms of respect for fundamental rights, it should be pointed out that the Alliance's accession clause is rigorous in terms of respect for the rule of law and democratic standards. However, there is no collective security procedure which can lead to the suspension of a Member State. There is also an evolution in the relationship between Turkey and Russia. The recent rapprochement with Russia, illustrated by high-level contacts in St Petersburg in August, already took place before the attempted coup d'état. There were mostly economic imperatives on the basis. Russia and Turkey need each other both geopolitically and economically, for example in terms of energy and tourism. At the same time, the meeting between Putin and Erdogan on 9 August should not immediately be seen as a threat to Ankara's NATO loyalty, as shown by Ankara's reassuring language. There is neither the question of leaving NATO nor the search for a strategic alternative. According to Turkey, this is a standardisation and reset of relations that has already been established. Nor are there any indications that this rapprochement would be directed against Europe or that the relationship between the two countries would become so close that Russia and Turkey could offer an alternative to NATO's security partnership. The many contacts between the allies in NATO and Turkey are continuing with a view to further clarification. Once again, until now, we have no indication that Turkey would move in a different direction than through cooperation within NATO. In the same spirit of normalization, concerning relations with Israel, in parallel with the normalization of relations between Turkey and Russia, I must also highlight another development with Israel. Since the end of 2015, there has been renewed diplomatic activity in order to negotiate the normalization of diplomatic relations worsened in 2010 by the Mavi-Marmara case. An agreement has finally been reached, approved by President Erdogan, and the two countries are expected to exchange their ambassadors again in the coming weeks. With regard more directly to Turkey's relations with the European Union, I would like to return to the discussions we had in Bratislava with my colleagues in charge of foreign affairs last week. Prior to this meeting, I called for an in-depth discussion on Turkey between the Member States prior to our meeting with the Turkish Minister for Relations with the European Union, Ömer çelik. This meeting at 28, last Friday, resulted in coherent messages for the next day's meeting with our Turkish interlocutor. On behalf of the European Union, High Representative Mogherini reiterated our commitment to continue the implementation of the 18 March agreement in all its aspects and the importance of the related criteria. Turkey is indeed a key partner of the European Union, particularly with regard to security, migration and the fight against terrorism. We must therefore continue dialogue and cooperation with Ankara. However, we also make it clear that any progress will depend on how the Turkish authorities comply with their commitments and the related criteria. As Turkey's main economic and trade partner and as the European Union is preparing to renegotiate its customs union with Turkey, we have an important lever. The rule of law and fundamental rights must continue to play a central role in European conditionality. In the context of the accession negotiations and following the EU-Turkey Declaration of 18 March 2016, a new chapter was opened on 30 June 2016, in particular Chapter XXXIII "Financial and budgetary commissions'. This brings the number of chapters opened to 16, one of which is provisionally closed, in particular Chapter XXV Science and research. The European Commission wishes to update, in the short term, in September 2016, i.e. this month, the screening reports on Chapters XXIII and XXIII of the Constitutional Treaty and fundamental law, the framework and XXIV of the Constitution, freedom and security, in order to draw attention to the dysfunctions in Turkey, but also to launch a debate between Member States. With regard to visa liberalisation, in its latest report, the European Commission had indicated that Turkey still did not meet 7 of the 72 criteria of the roadmap, including the revision of its anti-terrorism legislation and practices. In the current circumstances, the Turkish authorities do not hide the fact that they do not wish to bring their anti-terrorism legislation into line with European standards. Belgium's position has always been clear on this point: visa liberalisation can only be envisaged if all the criteria are met, including the sensitive criteria of revising anti-terrorism legislation and practices. With regard to the Migration component of the EU-Turkey agreement, Belgium has committed to hosting 1,100 people from June 2015 to the end of 2017 under the European Resettlement Scheme. In this context, we welcomed 149 Syrian refugees in 2015; for 2016, Belgium offered to welcome 350 Syrians as part of the resettlement. Two hundred and fifty of them would come from Turkey under the One to one programme. A hundred more would come from Lebanon. A Belgian mission went to Turkey in June 2016 and made an initial selection of 108 people, 106 of whom are actually presented at the Embassy and Consulate General. The first arrivals are expected in the coming days, including two groups of refugees. Respectfully 31 and 32 people are expected to fly to Belgium on 8 and 9 September. A second mission will depart in the fall to select the rest of those who will benefit from relocation. With regard to assistance to Syrian refugees in Turkey, Belgium has asked the European Commission for guarantees in order to exercise better control over the funds on the ground. The Belgian contribution to the Facility amounts to €57,644,000 out of a total amount of €3 billion announced. I come to a few issues to conclude this speech. First of all, the case of our young compatriot Bilen Ceyran. I am glad that she was released and was able to join Belgium on Sunday. My services and our embassy in Ankara have followed this issue with great attention. We have been in contact with his mother and lawyer and have taken steps with the Turkish authorities. In particular, our embassy in Ankara called for the detention of Bilen Ceyran in the best possible conditions, stressing also the specific needs of our compatriot. We will continue to follow her case if she or her lawyers so wish. With regard to the closure of the Belgian edition of the newspaper Zaman, it is obviously difficult to comment on the reasons which led to the closure of the Belgian edition of this newspaper. They are, no doubt, multiple. We can, however, consider that the climate of tension and the campaigns of intimidation against its journalists, the pressure on its readers and advertisers, have played a role, beyond the fall of its readership, which has also been observed directly. We already knew that Zaman Belgica's editor-in-chief was personally targeted on social media. It was in particular to mention this type of intimidation that the Turkish Ambassador was summoned to Foreign Affairs on 20 July. Mr President, I have received a series of questions concerning my colleagues in the Justice and the Interior. I am obviously referring to these colleagues, including my colleague from Asylum and Migration, for specific requests. These include, for example, asylum applications, the role of the Diyanet in our mosques or demonstrations in Brussels, including the pro-Kurdish demonstration. Another set of questions was asked about specific figures. I have mentioned a few of them, but you will understand that we do not have a very precise account of the situation of arrests, dismissals or expulsions that may have occurred. I gave some indication earlier. Belgium was among the first countries to condemn the attempted coup d'état. We will always react in this way. There is no question of accepting, and certainly within the European perimeter, actions by military officials to take power in a country where elections are held regularly. The conviction fell immediately. I reminded my Turkish colleague last week. We immediately called for proportionality in the response. From this point of view, we have to live up to our commitments on both sides. If we speak very directly and very openly to the Turkish authorities, it is because it is a particular partner. He is a partner in NATO, he has been a partner in the accession process in the European Union for many years. So we have a very special relationship with this country. I could cite examples in the world where we are not talking in the same way about the death penalty, for example, because these countries are not candidates for the Union, and are not in our immediate neighbourhood, even though Belgium remains a leader in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty, regardless of the partner we meet. Turkey therefore occupies a very special place. To honour our commitments, that means, to be very clear, and I said so to all my colleagues but above all to our Turkish colleague in charge of relations with the European Union last week: in the context of the accession process, any return to the abolition of the death penalty is an inconceivable red line that would ring the bell of any discussion on this subject. In the area of visas, I have just pointed out that failure to comply with certain criteria in amending the Terrorism Act would also constitute an impossibility of moving forward on visa liberalisation. As far as the migration issue is concerned, we have to respect our commitments on relocation as well as on the support of concrete projects. This always requires direct funding of projects and not budgetary support for the Turkish budget. In the contacts we have just had, I can at least welcome Turkey's commitment to respect its relations and its place in the Council of Europe. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of parliamentarians will probably have to participate in the debates in the Council of Europe assemblies, since Turkey has committed itself, even with certain derogations provided for in the texts, to comply with all its obligations within the Council of Europe. It is therefore a fairly strong means of exerting pressure on freedom of the press, individual freedom and the rule of law. Beyond that, we will of course continue to follow the situation very closely and to demand, in all possible steps towards Belgium coming from Turkey, respect for all the procedures laid down in our law. I repeat, for the time being, we have no indication, even if we receive a certain amount of information from the Turkish authorities. We have no indication of the real reasons and the origin of the attempted coup d'état in Turkey. But we will continue to work on this plan. Above all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that we are dealing here with a very special partner in NATO and in the European process, a member of the Council of Europe. Therefore, our speech is of a different nature to what we may have towards other partners in the world, who do not have this particular relationship with our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u5	I shall now give the floor to Members, first to the questioners. May I ask not to replicate too long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u6	Mr Minister, I thank you first of all for being present in this committee. The current situation in Turkey deserved this debate. Then I thank you for your very comprehensive presentation. Of course, this situation requires constant attention and vigilance by the international community. You have an essential role to play in this area. I am not going to focus on the political side, because it will be my colleague Blanchart who will take care of it. My question was about the agreement reached in March between our country and Turkey, which you mentioned. Counterparts had been proposed. You mentioned the visa waiver and the opening of the new accession chapters. I am more concerned about the release of funds. No vision is given to us. Moreover, I had already asked the Prime Minister before the holidays about what had been given and how those funds had been distributed. You've talked about some projects. Can you tell us how this is going and who gets that money? What is effective control? The agreement referred to a sum of six billion, which is not nothing. We criticized this agreement very much when it was concluded. The current political context makes it even more difficult to apply. How do you envisage his future? I know that the head of Greek diplomacy has already asked the European Union, at the Bratislava meeting, to reflect on a plan B if this agreement is to be called into question. Have you had an opportunity to look into this possibility? We have given Turkey a central role in the migration crisis. However, we see that the situation is very complicated. Consideration should be given to this issue. I give the floor to my colleague for the more political aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u7	Minister, you have answered many of our many questions. However, I would like some clarification on the rapprochement between President Putin and that particular partner, Mr Erdogan. Has NATO already responded formally? Have you had any feedback on this? Although the Turkish President wanted to reassure NATO's partners, this rapprochement is not an insignificant element. You talked about the Kurds, who are targeted by purging. This is the effect of a boon, since the purging is thus extended to all opponents. Have you received any information on other minorities in Turkey in this regard? With regard to the right of asylum for Kurdish nationals, I understand that it is necessary to address your colleagues, but I think it is wise for you to say a word about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u8	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his introduction. The developments in Turkey are, of course, not negative. During the months following the coup d'état, there has been a kind of new coup d'état, at least a cleansing of democracy in many forms in Turkey. A lot of arrests have happened. It concerns at least 67 000 teachers, judges, soldiers, of course, professors, officials and others. So developments are worrying, because Turkey should really be an ally for us. Because of its geographical location, Turkey is an important country for us. It is thus important that we keep the lines and the dialogue with that country open. However, the situation is so worrying that our attitude must be very alert, very assertive and very sharp. I have five questions, Minister. Firstly, Mr Gülen is clearly being pointed out before the coup d'état. However, has Turkey already shared evidence of this with Europe, with the international community and with the United States? They have clearly put a question to the United States. Evidence could therefore be assumed to be provided. Has that been the case? Do you know that? Secondly, freedom of the press is being restricted. A Kurdish station, Özgür Gün, and a Kurdish newspaper, Özgür Gündem, were silenced. The Zaman newspaper also had to close down its offices, reportedly for intimidation of its readers. It is clear that Turkey imports the conflict into our country in many ways and does not deter it from doing so. It doesn't turn the hand to do that in a very conscious way. Our government must put a clear stop to this and increase the pressure on the Turkish embassy in our country. You have given an overview. To this day, you have reacted fairly assertively, supported by increasing criticism of Turkey within the European Union. There is growing consensus within the European Union, to be quite critical. The criticism can be systematically increased. There is potential in this respect. However, the most recent convocation of the Turkish ambassador by you dates from 20 July. Perhaps it is time to consider repeating that initiative and thus keeping the pressure high from Belgium. Thirdly, in relation to the Syrian conflict, Turkey intervenes in Syria, especially in northern Syria, very active and very visible. It is clear that the country wants to create a buffer along its border to cut, sabotage or make impossible a cross-border autonomous Kurdish region or state in two. The problem is that in northern Syria the Kurds are still almost our only allies on the ground. There may be bombing in Syria, but reliable ground troops have so far been only the Kurds. To what extent do Turkish attacks on the Kurds jeopardise the military operation in Syria? The fourth point concerns relations with Russia. The ties between Erdogan and Putin were renewed. Both heads of state seem to agree well. You call that a normalization of relations. Perhaps it is, but I would ask you to remain particularly alert. There are still countries in Central Asia, for example Armenia, which try to bet on two horses each time, NATO and Russia. I hope that it does not go that way with Turkey. I certainly believe that NATO as a military alliance should not remain blind to such anti-democratic developments in one of its Member States. I believe that NATO also shares a number of values. Is there a red line within NATO in this respect? Where is the red line when it comes to one of its Member States? Before I come to the final point, namely relations between Turkey and the European Union, I would like to touch on the refugee agreement. There is a new development. Over the last few days, Turkey has allowed more refugees to flow to Greece across the Mediterranean. How do you interpret that? Should we see this as a kind of counter-stabbing from Turkey, a first expression of blackmail, a threat in response to the increased pressure from the European Union? Turkey says it can open the door again. How do you interpret the new development? Minister, when it comes to relations between Turkey and the European Union, you say that the death penalty is the red line for you. For my group, the red line has actually been crossed a long time. When we see to what extent this Turkish democracy is putting human rights under pressure, the Turkish rule of law is being dismantled and the independence of judges is being attacked and undermined, I believe that the red line has already been crossed and that Turkey can no longer be a member of the European Union. I would also like the Belgian Government to make a clear statement in this regard. A new chapter was opened a few months ago, as you said earlier. You know our position, and I said at the same time in plenary that we did not think that was a good idea. But neither has the Belgian Government opposed the opening of this new chapter in the European Union. I leave it to all the Belgian government parties concerned to make that decision. For me, however, it was new that a number of chapters which have already been closed should be re-evaluated. In any case, it is a good thing that some of these matters are being reviewed. You yourself say that we have a number of economic levers in our hands, the customs union and so on. That's a strong and good signal you're sending here. We're totally on the same page. The European Union is Turkey's most important trading partner, which, of course, is not the case. Turkey's dependence on the European Union is, at least economically, much greater than the other way around. These are things that we can certainly put in the balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u9	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, your presentation was obviously tinged with diplomatic prudence, particularly in the analysis of the circumstances associated with the attempted coup d'état on 15 July. It is true that observers would be very daring if they claimed to know who was at the instigation of the attempted coup d'état. Nevertheless, no one can deny the fact that one is convinced that, after this event which deserved to be condemned by all States respecting the principle of the rule of law and democratic values – and whatever one thinks of the Erdogan regime, this is not a reason to encourage or participate in any coup attempt – there has been a willingness for the regime in place to make a genuine settlement. For who can believe that in so short a time, so many tens of thousands of people could be identified as having a necessarily indisputable close connection with the perpetrators of the coup attempt? In almost all categories of the public service and well beyond, the press, the world of education, there was a real purge. I am not talking about Turkey's behaviour with regard to its more pronounced intervention in the Syrian conflict, which allowed the Erdogan regime to continue its determination to counter any rise in power from the possible emergence of a Kurdish power at the gates of Turkey. We will not always be able to avoid this debate. One day we will have to have the courage to say what status we will want to grant to the Kurds in the various states of the region, including Turkey. The Kurds are one of the most bullied minorities in this part of the world. The courage of this population and its combatants in their confrontations with the terrorist group Islamic State must also be praised. If there were not the Peshmergas and other allies, I am not sure that, on the ground, the coalition would be able to take on the successes that it is partly responsible for at the moment but perhaps decisively. That is the first question I wish to put. In the long run, what is our vision of the role of the Kurdish people in Turkey and outside Turkey, and what can we give them institutional recognition? Secondly, is it true that we will always have this ambivalence within the European institutions? How far can it be considered that the need to continue the dialogue with Ankara favours an ability to limit the excesses or temptations of the current government in terms of repression? And how far do we accept that these excesses are committed as we can see? This is a sensitive issue, but it still deserves more clarity from the European Union as to the limits that must not be crossed. There is a sense not of habituation, but of a reluctance on the part of the European Union to state more clearly its course of action in relation to what Ankara allows itself as human rights violations, undoubtedly established by various testimonies. I am not in favour of having a black or white vision in these debates but rather of research, which can advance democratic dialogue. I acknowledge, for example, that the Prime Minister, in a response to interventions in the House in mid-July, had had strong enough words to condemn the abuses of repression after the attempted coup d'état. Is there the same will in the European institutions and in all European governments? Interests are not known to converge, particularly in economic or strategic terms. Then there are the judicial aspects. The Ankara government is calling heavily on other states to contribute to the criminal imputation of all those who, by far or near, have links with imam Fethullah Gülen. Let us be careful, I do not think that the current of thought of imam Fethullah Gülen is of the greatest democratic demand. I am not convinced that it is in this thinker's ranks that there is the best understanding of the rule of law and democracy. But this does not justify that those who have sometimes found refuge in our country, because otherwise they would be severely prosecuted in Turkey, can now suffer the consequences of the purging carried out in Ankara. I take a very concrete testimony that I have received. There is a school in Haren, whose organizing power is close to the current of Fethullah Gülen, the School of Stars. A number of parents no longer dare to bring their children to this school for fear of reprisals. As communal organizing powers in the Brussels agglomeration, we receive parents who ask to be welcomed into the communal schools and a guaranteed security since we feel, they say, to be identified and that we could be prosecuted in one way or another, or even threatened. It is always very difficult to determine the part of real and psychological. But it is undoubtedly an anguish and it is also happening in other parts of the country. In the province of Limburg, we have seen facts of particular gravity. I heard you had the ambassador summoned by your department. You will probably have to take initiatives of great firmness because it is undeniable that the regime in place uses its relays in part of the public opinion of Turkish origin in Belgium to contribute to its goal of eviction of those who do not join its policy. We will be very attentive to the way in which your department and your authority will remind Turkey that interference with our country's internal security is not acceptable. That, Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, is the set of questions and comments that I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for all this information. You've already answered a series of questions I've asked myself. When he was questioned about this shortly before the start of our parliamentary holidays, around 20 July, the Prime Minister recalled that he strongly condemns any disproportionate drift in relation to this coup. Do we know a little more about the responsibilities in this regard to date? We're talking a lot about the "gulenist" movement. However, when we look at the scale of the purge, we can see – these are the figures of the Turkish Prime Minister – that there are 40,000 people arrested and half detained; 80,000 officials suspended; 5,000 dismissed; 5,000 soldiers removed; 4,000 foundations closed... And we can also see, Mr. Minister, that this repression far exceeds the "rulenists" and concerns - as we have noted in the events of last week - in particular the defenders of secularism in Turkey or of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. We also talked a lot about torture. Is this true or verifiable? Is it possible, in particular, to confirm these facts? That would be really challenging in relation to all the values that we are defending in a common way. I also think that the European Union could do so much more firmly, but also NATO, Minister, which has in its core values respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Turkey's relative strength within NATO must also be stressed. This issue has not yet been addressed. Turkey is the Alliance's second-largest army, with 750,000 troops. Here, too, there are questions about the assurance of the security or loyalty of the Turkish military present on the basis of Incrirlik, where American nuclear weapons are present. We know that the commander-in-chief of the base was arrested after the coup. The question is, therefore, what is the role of the army in this missed putsch? What reforms are aimed at strengthening civilian control over the Turkish army? What one might consider a priori to be a good thing if one is based on this possibility of having been able to do a coup d'état from the military force. Some colleagues have talked about the relationship with Russia, given some very strong condemnations and others not enough about the violation of fundamental rights. The rapprochement with President Putin could be a logical consequence. This raises other questions, particularly with regard to the Syrian side, since recent Turkish interventions to prevent the control of their border with Syria by Daesh or the Kurdish militias of the PYD will have consequences for intra-Syrian negotiations. Do we know a little more at this point? It would be pretty interesting to hear you on this. We talk a lot about purging, we talk about the pursuit of the Gulenists but also of the other minorities. Do we know a little more about the consequences of this coup d'état? Mr Minister, I would like to welcome the fact that you had this conversation with the Turkish Ambassador to Belgium, in particular to put an end to the intimidation practices carried out by Turkey, particularly in Belgium. What is the situation today? Is there still evidence of a movement in this direction? What are the means available to us to put an end to what I personally consider to be interference in the affairs of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation and all the information you have provided. Much has already been said and asked; I will be brief. Firstly, I have another question concerning the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. We believe that the opportunity should be taken to emphasise once again that there is an open end to the accession talks. In other words, the European Union has decided to negotiate the candidature, but the negotiations certainly do not necessarily lead to accession. We even prefer a kind of privileged partnership rather than effective accession. Given the current context, I wonder what your view is. Secondly, in connection with the cleansing and emergency situation, thousands of people were arrested or dismissed, including teachers, academics, journalists and judges. Some media even speak of a witch hunt. We condemn the coup d'état, of course, but the reaction of the Turkish Government to the coup was disproportionate and disturbing on a number of points, especially because we have seen a number of trends in this direction before. We have also seen the impact in Belgium, also cited by you, with Zaman shutting down and the threats of parents sending their children to certain schools. The whole situation can lead to intellectual refugees, persons being persecuted for their opinion, applying for asylum in Belgium. If those persecuted journalists, academics and human rights defenders come knocking on our door, what will be the reaction? It is reported that passports have also been withdrawn or declared invalid, including persons detained somewhere in Europe with a passport which is suddenly invalid. Do you think that our country should and can take responsibility for these people? What's your attitude on the matter? Finally, I have a more general remark. You emphasise very strongly that we must be careful in our way of speaking: Turkey is not just a partner. The situation leads to simple, unambiguous answers, but of course it is very complex. It is in everyone's interest that Turkey be and remains a stable political, economic and military ally. The next few months will be crucial. You're right to call for attention. You have addressed the pressure on freedom of the press, human rights and the rule of law. Do you not think that, especially in the light of the story of the European Union with a very strong emphasis on the values and standards of the European Union, our country should ask Turkey for much stronger accountability over the whole situation with a worrying lack of legal status, the pressure on political freedoms, the lifting of the immunity of parliamentarians and the pressure on the media and civil society? Do you intend to take further steps in this area, given that the coming weeks and months are crucial? A colleague mentioned here that your conversation took place on July 20th. Will there be follow-up talks about this, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u12	First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for your thorough introduction, in which you analysed the very brutal and bloody coup d'état and the admirable way in which the Turkish people reacted to it, which resulted in the coup d'état failing. You are also analysing the Erdogan government, which has undoubtedly been engaged in a power struggle for a few years, and the way in which it has used the coup as a lever to strengthen the evolution towards an authoritarian regime that was already under way before the coup d'état. Personally, I think that our measure should always be a measure of democracy. Democracy can be measured by the speed with which derogations are introduced, and I must say that the Council of Europe has some understanding for it, to my surprise. Democracy can also be measured by the way in which a fair trial is to be pursued, by the content of the announced constitutional review, by the speed with which it is implemented and by the extent to which it is far-reaching, and above all by the return of a non-violent approach to the Kurdish question. We can ask ourselves whether democracy in Turkey is not under pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u13	Some Members have already asked what is going on with the accession negotiations. On the basis of the information provided by the European Commission itself, one of the 33 chapters of the Accession Treaty has been completed, perhaps the easiest, namely science and technology. Who can oppose technological developments and investment in science? Until recently, there were 14 chapters in negotiation, mainly socio-economic chapters. None of the chapters were completed. Eight chapters have not yet been started, because of the Cyprus issue. At the end of June, a new chapter was discussed on financial and budgetary matters, which fulfilled a promise following the migration agreement with Turkey on 18 March. On 15 June, in a press release on the implementation of the migration agreement, the European Commission added: "The preparatory work will continue in an accelerated manner in order to make progress on five chapters." The preparatory work has been completed in the field of energy. The Commission will finalise the documents relating to the judiciary and fundamental rights at the end of June. The Commission finalized the joint position on education and culture on 2 June. The European External Action Service published its external, security and defence policy survey report on 20 May'. At the regular accession conference of the Council and the European Commission with Turkey on 30 June, the Dutch Presidency and the Commissioner for Enlargement reaffirmed their assurance that, with the implementation of the summits between Europe and Turkey on 29 November 2015 and 18 March this year, the European Union will aim to re-encourage the accession process." The three billion that has been given to Europe in the context of the migration debate is very often discussed. I find it particularly striking that between 2014 and 2020, Europe allocated EUR 4.5 billion to support Turkey's accession process. Most of them, 35.5% or just under EUR 1.6 billion, are concerned with justice, fundamental rights and home affairs reforms. Slightly less than 10%, 450 million, goes into all kinds of social policy, where, fortunately, there is a bit of gender equality. If we go into further detail, we can see that this year alone, the European Union is spending 240 million on the promotion of democracy and human rights in Turkey and has earmarked 930 million for the years 2014 to 2017. Those are certainly the years since when, from 2013 onwards, Turkey has gone on the authoritarian tour. This, of course, puts the whole debate on how Belgium should act as part of Europe in the negotiations with Turkey. There are three basic options. Sometimes I feel that the accession negotiations with Turkey should be seen as a mutual marriage deception. None of the parties want the wedding, but they're moving on anyway. There isn't even a marriage here yet, so it's a wedding deception before there's a marriage. Turkey could be added for strategic reasons, because it is a buffer between Russia and the Middle East. But by taking Turkey as part of Europe, we are also importing this problem into Europe. In addition, Turkey would be one of the most populous Member States of the European Union and thus involve the European Union even more in the Middle East. I am convinced that Turkey is and will remain an important neighbour, preferably a good neighbour. Of a good neighbor, I hope there is openness and democracy. In this case, this means a maximum form of association and connection, as perhaps will be the case with the British. However, I do have a number of questions, particularly about the budget that Europe is already spending on Turkey today with a view to preparing for accession to the European Union. Minister, to what extent do you see the funds that Europe is already giving Turkey today? Do they effectively ensure progress in the area of democracy, fundamental rights and equality between men and women? To what extent are these budgets useful? I must honestly say that, when we look at the facts, most of my fellow Members of the European Parliament have doubts as to whether progress has been made. I'm gonna say it very carefully. Minister, have you heard of an evaluation of the measures taken? Is there going to be a revision of the budgets? Frankly, my personal opinion is that these budgets should be frozen until it is clear what position is really being taken in the negotiations on Turkey's accession to Europe. In view of the developments, not only in recent months but in recent years, we are all warning against being cautious. So I wonder why we are giving EUR 4.5 billion to Turkey during that period. That is a very large amount of money. That is why I am asking for an evaluation of the measures. Do they work? Sort that effect? Minister, I also wonder if you have an opinion on whether this aid should be suspended until it is clear and the European Union knows what it will really do with regard to Turkey. I have a rather technical and practical question. Has the European Council of Foreign Affairs or COREPER heard what the European Commission means by 'I quote 'the finalisation of the documents on the judiciary and fundamental rights' at the end of June? Has any consideration been given to reconsidering them in the light of recent events? It is a rather technical question. I see the sentence, but I don't know how to interpret it. More than looking at the money that has gone into the recent migration deal, I wonder what happens to that amount of EUR 4.5 billion, which has been given over the past few years. Should this not be urgently suspended pending a decision on what we will effectively do with Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u14	Minister, I have a personal, general comment and also a question. Mr Minister, my personal comment is as follows. In the first place, this criticism does not focus on the positions taken by our members of the government. However, I have a general feeling. There is little talk here about what I would like to call the elephant in the room, especially the refugee deal that has been agreed with Turkey. I feel that Europe is prepared to forget its values for a moment in order not to compromise that deal. I fully agree with you. You said earlier that we have the right to judge Turkey differently from other countries. We can raise the bar. Turkey is a member of NATO. He is also a member of the Council of Europe. We have also been negotiating, albeit for 50 years, with Turkey to possibly integrate it into the European Union. I fully agree with that. I believe, however, that in your speech, but also in the attitude of the European governments, I see a contradiction in what the Americans call walk the talk, or else put, in doing what they say. We do not, however, do so. We must not forget that it has already been very problematic. If we test Turkey from before the coup against those higher standards and demands we make, then it was already clear that there was a movement going on. I refer, for example, to the approach taken by Cumhuriyet, a newspaper whose two editors flew into prison after they had published an article indicating the involvement of the Turkish security services in supplying arms to certain warring groups that we did not like to see strengthened in the conflict in Syria. So there was already a fundamental problem. By the way, one of the assumptions of the coup is that there were further preparations by Erdogan to further clear the political field of the opponents in Turkey. So there was already a problem! You rightly pointed out, Minister, that, even if a country calls for a state of emergency, the international obligation to apply proportionality to the necessary measures still exists. I believe that there is agreement in this committee on the absence of any need to dismiss professors and teachers. I cannot imagine that they were directly involved in the preparation and conduct of a coup. I don't see the need to meet those people. I shall then come to proportionality. When one hears how many newspapers and television channels were closed, and how many journalists were addressed after the coup because they have written critically about Erdogan in the past and whether or not they were associated with the Gülen movement, one can only decide that this is far beyond it. Minister, you just referred to the Gymnich meeting on Saturday. I do not know whether the representation in The Guardian is correct, but it says that Europe and Turkey have made a deal that will not cancel the refugee agreement if visa liberalisation is not immediately achieved. Turkey has just given the signal that they may not be prepared to stop new flows of refugees. Minister, this is my point of criticism of European leaders. If I am not mistaken, it will be held tomorrow in the Council of Europe. I do not want to hide the fact that I was disappointed when I saw the press conference after the visit of Secretary-General Jagland to Turkey. I almost felt ashamed. The institution that incarnates respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and respect for human rights goes to Turkey and is satisfied with a promise from Turkey that it will follow closely whether the way in which the coup is handled is consistent with it. It is quite clear that these behaviours do not correspond to the high standards, values and demands we make. My first conclusion is not so much the Belgian Government, but all European leaders. People are making the mistake of sending a signal that we will regret later. In the case of human rights violations in other countries later on, we will be riddled with Europe's attitude and behaviour towards Turkey. I do not know whether you yourself are going to be the ambassador, but I hope that when the Council of Europe looks at this matter tomorrow, Belgium is calling for a much more courageous attitude from the Council of Europe and Turkey, the signal that what has happened and the way in which it has reacted is unacceptable. My second point, Mr President, has already been referred to by my fellow Members, and I am concerned about the activities of a special department set up in Turkey which bears the title 'Turkish abroad'. In the English versions of the Turkish media a report was published which clearly shows that on 28 July there was a meeting of this department, at which it was agreed to call all Turks abroad to join the fight against the Gülen movement. So what we have seen in the various European countries is not spontaneously blossomed from the Turkish population. No, Minister, it is my firm conviction that this is directed from Ankara. I mention a few things. For example, the freedom of the press is affected by threatening Zaman. I also mention signals, as yesterday, for example, from the Netherlands. Yesterday, the Dutch police arrested a person who had received 50 complaints of threats and blackmail against certain parents whose children are in Gülenschools. Yesterday in the newspaper De Morgen there was also an article about a young Belgian student who made a final work on AKP and also had links with Zaman, who was approached by someone who called himself state advisor, asking him to provide Zaman's subscription list or reader list. Minister, perhaps I should address my questions not so much to the Department of Foreign Affairs, but you are the first minister present who we can speak to after the summer holidays. I think that our Belgian Government should take these matters very seriously. With regard to the activities of the department for the Turks abroad, it is important to clarify precisely what the activities have been in Belgium. I fear that we will have to make a strong response to Ankara to say that this will not be patient in our country. Freedom of education, freedom of the press and freedom of opinion are issues that some people may question in Turkey, but we absolutely do not want to see restrictions imposed by foreign activities in our country. I am therefore counting on our government to investigate this very carefully and, if necessary, to react very strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u15	Madam President, first of all with regard to asylum applications, I have asked that the debate also take place with the Secretary of State responsible for asylum. Requests were made to Belgium by magistrates and journalists who were sometimes in transit with us. There are indeed passport problems. Fifty-six applications were submitted, of which six concerned persons with diplomatic passports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u16	Président: Dirk Van der Maelen. It is always possible to give more details, but this is primarily the responsibility of my colleague, the Secretary of State. I have also been in contact with colleagues in Europe and with the European Commission in relation to specific cases. For example, I remember a journalist who was in Belgium, in transit to the United States; with or without a passport, it was not obvious. We are going to try to find a solution. There are asylum applications; I know 56 asylum seekers, six of whom have diplomatic passports. As far as projects are concerned, we often put the question to the Commission. Relatively few resources have been committed in relation to the amounts quoted. I would remind you that the three billion, in the framework of the migration agreement, which was then increased by another three billion, will be spread over several years. I do not want to make comparisons in every direction, but for the same number of years, the cohesion funds within the Union amounted to EUR 300 billion for the countries that joined us recently. So, sometimes we have to go back to certain realities. If we are able to spend six billion euros in a few years on the reception of refugees in Turkey, this amounts to between two and a half million and three million refugees. I would remind you that last year the European territory received just over one million of them. I would not dare give you the total amount spent on this. This is obviously without common measure with what is being proposed as a means to Turkey. Germany alone has spent much more on its territory than is announced today. In concrete terms, how does this work? The first step is to identify the projects, verified by the Turkish authorities and the European Commission, with a possibility for the Member States to monitor on the ground how things are going. Turkey has requested budgetary funding on several occasions. This has always been refused. This is project-by-project funding, mainly for schools and hospitals. These investments can also be used by the Turkish population. In any case, even if these figures are still impressive, they must be confronted with reality. I will return to the interference in Belgium, but with regard to contacts with the Turkish officials, following information that has come to us, I asked for the Turkish Ambassador to be summoned. This is not the last contact we had. I repeat, at the end of last week, I met again with Minister Omer Celik, who is in charge of relations with the European Union. However, I believe that when I speak to him, the message passes at least as strongly as when my administration receives the ambassador in Brussels. Any interference in our territory is totally unacceptable. We said that during the contact with the ambassador, and I obviously repeated it to the minister mentioned above. Now, I must also tell you that, when we hear comments, we encourage those who talk about pressures, threats and other concrete actions to file a complaint. We live in the rule of law. It is clear that if they can report threats or direct actions against them, it is quite possible for them to file a complaint with the police authorities or the prosecutor's office. Such action by a Turkish government on our territory is totally unacceptable, but it is the responsibility of a number of people in Belgium to complain. That is the best solution for a follow-up process. There's also a division. There may have been actions by the Turkish government, but there were also spontaneous actions by the Turkish community in Belgium, as in the Netherlands and Germany. The Turkish community in Belgium consists of different groups. At the last elections, we noticed that about two thirds of the Turkish community voted for Erdogan. This is not just about Kurds and members of the Gülen organisations. There are also many people who join the AKP. It is therefore normal to see a number of actions from Turkey, although it has to be said that this is unacceptable. However, there are also local discussions, and perhaps more so, between the different groups within the Turkish community. But that is not only the case in Belgium, I have heard about it in Germany, the Netherlands and a number of Scandinavian countries. I would like to come back to five points. First of all, the coup d'état. From the outset, it was made clear that it was impossible to organise a coup in some European country. Not only in the European Union, but also in our environment and even throughout the world, but certainly in European territory. That was a clear and clear condemnation of the coup. Here's what I want to say. I was in Mongolia during the coup d'état for a meeting with our Asian colleagues, with the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs. I said that it was not a defence of a president or a government, but a defence of the democratic institutions, no more and no less. It is only that, it is a condemnation of the coup d'état and a defence of the democratic institutions. But, and I will come back to this, there were some other proposals in the European Union. However, our position was clear and clear: it was the European Union's position at the end, namely a condemnation of the coup d'état and the defence of democratic institutions. With regard to the origin of the coup d'état, I have now heard with certainty from the Turkish Government that it is the responsibility of a specific group of people, the people living in the Gülensphere. That was said quite clearly last Saturday at the Gymnic meeting in Bratislava. The Minister responsible for relations with Europe has said this clearly and clearly, with information about it. Do we have any proof of that? We received many documents from the Turkish authorities last week. Mr. Maingain asked the question earlier. In Bratislava, I received documents about interrogations following the coup d'état. What made me react – it may have gone unnoticed in previous statements and we will check, like other Member States or not in the European Union – is this information according to which 55 000 people would have been identified as exchanging messages on encrypted messaging, occasionally, before, during or after the coup. This would explain lists. This courier, ByLock, I don't know, would have been decrypted by the Turkish intelligence services. We will continue to receive information on these kinds of elements, but I repeat that, for us, any action can only be done through the provision of clearly verifiable evidence that can then lead to actions beyond them. But to date, I cannot give any indication of the exact origin of the attempted coup. Elements are presented from the beginning but we cannot yet certify them. We will continue to work on it. That said, the message from Turkey is very clear. There is no doubt in this regard. There were some questions to the United States so far regarding Fethullah Gülen himself, but there were also questions to other countries. I also said that we did not receive any questions for Belgium about the schools or other members of the Gülen group. Second point. We immediately asked the Turkish authorities to apply the principle of proportionality in the response to the coup d'état. So far, there has been a positive reaction from Turkey in relation to the Council of Europe. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe and has so far tried to follow all the rules. They had a question for some exceptions to the convention, but they confirm that they are asking for cooperation with the Council of Europe. From the Council of Europe, Secretary-General Jagland visited Turkey with a clear message, first and foremost on the death penalty. I am convinced of such evolution: with clear and clear language because of the Council of Europe, the European Union and many other partners, we have not heard for more than a month about a possible decision on the death penalty. There is neither a bill nor an initiative of the government. We haven't received confirmation yet, but our response has been effective. So it remains important to do so. The members of the Council of Europe will also be asked, by way of an instruction from our ambassador, to use all the instruments of the Council of Europe. What is important to me is that the Committee for the Prevention of Torture, the Commissioner for Human Rights, a number of Council of Europe bodies should be able to visit, check and report. Or we should not ask for a real debate on the situation of the rule of law and human rights in Turkey. We need to use the instruments we have at our disposal. And if possible not to vote resolutions in an assembly without having the reports of these various instruments available. I will return to this for the European Union. You will see that if you put forward the unanimity of at least part of the members of the Council of Europe, it will not be so simple to have a firm position on all aspects. There are nuances. I am not talking about all the countries of the Council of Europe, whose composition you know. Even for countries coming from the European Union, there can be nuances. I stress this because on the death penalty but also on freedom of the press, individual rights, etc., the Council of Europe is the best place to have this real discussion with a member. I would remind you that Turkey is not a member of the European Union. In the Council of Europe, a real debate with one member is possible and I believe that parliamentarians have a role to play in this. I know that you have had experience in an African case to meet with the Ambassador of Burundi recently. It would be interesting if you would meet with representatives of the Turkish Government to see what dialogue we can have on a number of issues. A third point concerns international relations with Syria, Russia and NATO. There is standardisation with Russia. I remind you of the incident with a plane. The relations between Russia and Turkey were almost completely non-existent. This was not the case with the European Union, Belgium, the United States or others. There was a complete lack of relations between Russia and Turkey. How did this standardisation come about? There has been a contact between both presidents with the request to re-establish normal relations. I don't want to make a comparison, but during the G20, there were many contacts between Presidents Obama and Putin. I didn't say anything about that relationship. I will try to be in touch with my colleague, Sergei Lavrov. It is very useful to have a dialogue. So far, there is no indication other than normalization. We may fear a different evolution, but so far it is only a normalization. This was also stated clearly and clearly by Turkey. The same applies to NATO. We will have a lot of contacts within NATO next week, but so far Turkey has always confirmed its true cooperation with all its allies within NATO. It is therefore too early to say a little more about relations between Turkey and a number of partners. A fourth point concerns the Kurdish question, which I raised again on Saturday with the Turkish Minister. I spoke to her in Ankara when I went there with my colleagues from the Interior and Justice. With Koen Geens, I had met representatives of minorities, representatives of human rights organisations, but also lawyers of the arrested journalists. On the Kurdish question, there is no hesitation: the only solution is political. In one way or another, the international community must press for negotiations to begin at some point on the situation of the Kurds in Turkey, with the HDP, which is political representation. The Turkish government must take this path. This is systematically recalled. This is not the case at present, but it is not the only conflict where, for the time being, we cannot put the parties to the cause around the table. This has been mentioned by several: the Kurdish question goes beyond that. The debate also concerns the presence in Iraq and Syria. The solution will be a negotiated solution, which will have to be discussed in the context of Turkey's relations with Kurdish minorities, but also in the context of internal relations with other countries, such as Syria and Iraq. We are not at the end of the road in this area. We do not have much specific information about other minorities, such as ethnic or religious minorities. There are a number of obvious problems, which often come to us through individual cases, but less so than what we are living with the Kurdish community. With regard to the last point I wanted to mention, the European Union, I remain convinced that the mistake was made for a decade or so not to negotiate with Turkey. For a long period of time, the negotiations were suspended. We cannot suspend negotiations and, at the same time, ask a State to remain very close to what we want to see set up as a political system or as rules in that country. The negotiations really remain a way of getting leverage on the situation in Turkey, as with any other partner in an accession process. I shall now reply to Mrs Turtelboom's questions on the statements made at the end of June. They dealt with the preparation of a possible opening of Chapters XXIII and XXIV. I will not say that there are no problems with justice and human rights. We certainly need to talk about this with Turkey, perhaps also with Europe. What are the possible positive evolutions? It is true that we are giving Turkey 4.5 billion, although I do not know the exact calculation. There is progress: the abolition of the death penalty is a clear example. Now, however, we see that this situation might change. We sometimes make progress in relations with one country or another, not only with Turkey, but at some point, due to a new local situation or another relationship with a neighbouring country, there may also be a decline. This was also the case for many countries in the Balkans. We have made progress in the Balkans, and now we see that we can go even further, but sometimes it was impossible to go further. It is true that we are making a considerable effort with regard to Turkey. Now there are problems with the rule of law and a number of principles, but again, I compare the situation with the Balkans. These 4.5 billion will be spread over a few years. During discussions with our partners on the enlargement of the European Union to include the previous 12 or 13 countries, 300 billion was spent on support through the Cohesion Fund. Questions were also raised at that time about the rule of law, about justice and about human rights. I would just like to say that this is an important amount for our budget, but in general the various problems of previous accessions were greater than those of Turkey. A second point is the situation within the European Union. We are trying to achieve unanimity. It always is. We had very long discussions with the 28 Member States on Friday in order to achieve unanimity. I have to tell you, there were different opinions. I confirm that during the speech in the presence of the Turkish Minister on Saturday, we were in the group of three or four who held the same language on everything I have just told you about the death penalty, human rights and the situation of interference in our country. Both in the presence of the Turkish Minister and before the Belgian Parliament, I have heard many speeches about the importance of partnership, the very strong relationship, the need to block the phenomenon of migration. When we want unanimity, whether it be on Russia or Turkey, the European position that emerges from it may not always be the position that you would like to hear. But I can tell you that the Belgian position in this debate has been very clear and I have no problem repeating it now. As far as accession is concerned, whenever we talk about opening new chapters, I am entitled to at least one article saying "You are for Turkey's immediate entry into the European Union". It would be fair if I were for Turkey's immediate entry into the European Union! Mrs Claerhout had a question about accession or another partnership. There are several possibilities. We can stop the negotiations. I have pointed out that this is possible if the death penalty is re-implemented in Turkey. After all, that's a red line. In that case, it is impossible to continue the negotiations, which I do not hope, of course. It is also possible, although this is somewhat hypocritical at European level, to decide to proceed with the negotiations. They can last another 50 years, a century or two centuries. I don't know. Perhaps an agreement could first be reached on one chapter, as proposed by Mrs Turtelboom, after which negotiations could be held on another chapter. There is a third possibility, which is in line with my position, as I stated last Saturday. It may be too early to have an open debate on this in the European Union, but the Brexit may allow for other partnerships. A country will no longer be a member of the European Union, but it will still be in close relationship with the European Union through all kinds of strong forms of cooperation, a concept that we will have to develop for Britain after the Brexit. As far as Turkey is concerned, I remain convinced that we will have to ask ourselves what this means. There are nineteen of us in the euro area. Not all of us are in Schengen. Not all European countries are even in NATO. Not all of us are in politics. This will be more and more the case in the future. There will be varying dimensions. So what is the dimension of the relationship we want to have with Turkey in the light of the developments we will experience in the coming years? This is probably one of the major issues. At some point, we'll have to ask ourselves, perhaps in stages, where we're in the relationship and not keep hiding behind arguties. The legal situation of the European Union must, of course, be taken into account. We'll have to ask ourselves what we want to go to. This will be true in the Balkans, for the Eastern Partnership and for the whole southern part of the Mediterranean. No one thinks that Turkey is at the door of accession. From time to time, we'd like to make it look like we both want it, but we're a long way from it. We're in a discussion process. This process must lead to something: either a rejection, but I do not see the point of without a partnership, or the definition of what this partnership would be for at least a long period, as we are doing in the Council of Europe, in NATO, and as we should do in the relationship with the European Union. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is what I can tell you about the situation to date. We will, of course, follow her very closely. I will have contacts with my Turkish colleagues, but do not expect an ambassador to be summoned every day. If we did, it would have no effect. We must do so at a time when specific things need to be reported on our territory. However, this does not prevent us from conveying very clear messages to the Turkish authorities themselves. I would like to conclude on the question of my own, which I share with participants in these last discussions with Turkey. Of course, the reaction seems disproportionate and we must ask for explanations. The doubt arises from the fact that we do not have the habit of coups d'état at home. This is difficult to consider in our home because it involves taking power by force and we still need to know where it is – for the reference to a former Speaker of the House. Regardless of this, I felt a real emotion. I have quoted the number of deaths and injuries, some of which are very close to Turkish leaders. What happened isn't annoyance. It is up to us to see whether it is possible to ensure that the reaction is more proportionate than we have seen so far and that if strong measures are taken, they are well documented to convince us of respect for the rule of law and individual rights. I repeat, we have a role to play at the government level and we are going to play that role. I believe that you will also have a parliamentary role to play because the bodies where Turkey is located today are not just negotiating with the Union. It is perhaps the Council of Europe first and foremost in the field of human rights. The instructions are very clear for our position in the discussions in the Committee of Ministers. I think you also need to define a very clear position on what the message from the Belgian parliamentarians in the Council of Europe will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u17	Mr President, I will be very brief. Minister, we take your recommendation to heart, saying that we, as Members of Parliament, can also do something. We will soon be discussing the arrangements for the work. Why should the Committee on External Relations not invite an ambassador a little more regularly? With regard to the convening of 20 July, you are right to say that there is no point in doing so every day. However, there have been some developments in our country since 20 July, such as the discussion of the Gülenschools and the Zaman newspaper; I would like to emphasise this. My question about the Kurdish armed forces on the ground was actually quite simple. If Turkey continues to launch attacks to bring the Kurds back behind the Euphrates, does that not hypothesize the military operation being conducted there at the moment? I am therefore asking very specifically whether the Turks are being called upon to stop military action against perhaps the only ground troops we have in Syria. Finally, I come to your thinking about Europe with different speeds or dimensions, with the Brexit and possibly involving Turkey. I think it is important to maintain a core Europe that fully accepts the acquis. The British are no longer really going to do so, and we cannot accept it from the Turks, because they do not comply with a set of principles, such as respect for human rights. I would therefore start from that core Europe and lay a number of layers on it. That's food for another discussion. I repeat, the red line has crossed for us. In my view, it is necessary for the Belgian Government to state clearly that, apart from the debate on the death penalty, there can be no question of Turkish accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Minister, I hope that some progress has been made with the 4.5 billion. I have heard you say that the other Member States are talking about much more money. However, that always reminds me of small children who come home with a bad report, but say that the report of their classmates is even worse. It's still 4.5 billion. After 2013, authoritarianism has become increasingly widespread and human rights violations have become increasingly widespread, while gender equality has decreased and freedom of the press has become increasingly widespread. So I think we should say that the time is simply not right at the moment. Current developments in Turkey are not of this nature in order to be able to treat an accession process properly. I believe that at such a time we must dare to decide to freeze those amounts. It is now up to Turkey to show that it is moving forward on one plane and backwards on the other. In order to abolish the death penalty, we do not need money. It is above all a matter of principles!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-06-54-commissie-ic484x.u19	Mr President, Minister, following your presentation and the remarks made by each other, I have a few brief remarks to make. Firstly, from a philosophical point of view, from the moment when a country belongs to any international organisation, it must expect a right of interference, a fortiori when it is part of a more integrated institution such as the Council of Europe and perhaps one day, in two centuries, as you have said, of the European Union. In my view, we do not have a right of interference but a duty of interference with other countries of the same European Union. Beyond everything that has been said – and Angela Merkel recently recalled – the agreement on refugees, even if the hood is poorly cut, was absolutely necessary. [[If we had lived again in 2016 what we experienced in 2015, the AfD party would be 35 or 40 per cent, not 20 per cent, even if it is already too much.]] With regard to the recent resignation of the Minister of the Interior, this shows how deeply what has happened has gone, even if other causes than the problem of the coup d'état have to be taken into account. You have referred to Israel and Turkey, and I consider this to be extremely important. Let us not forget that Turkey is the former power in Palestine and Israel. The agreements under way today result in the construction of a Turkish car factory in Gaza, which allows a number of people in Gaza to work and which says work, "resocialization", which is very important. More fundamentally, in my view, relations with Turkey will never be easy because this country is such a kaleidoscope. It mixes the most contradictory aspects and assumes them, at the limit. Moreover, and this dates back several centuries, it resides a fear of the Turk or the Ottoman in general. I think it was at least before the fall of Constantinople in 1453. Even though the Battle of Lepante definitively defeated the Ottoman troops at sea in 1571, there is still some sort of fear. Let us not forget that it is recalled that the Turks arrived at the gates of Vienna. This was the result of which the crescents were created. From then on, we will never have simple relations with the Turks. Nevertheless, it is a country that also has extremely interesting elements. 25% of university professors are women. I am not sure that in all European countries 25% of university professors are women. It's up to us to help with that. It's not easy, because it's a bit like Russia where there's always this mixture of modernity and reaction. Turkey is in a bit of the same situation. I thank the minister for everything he said. I think we have to handle two irons at the same time: to be both very firm and very open. There is action against Turkey, but also against our own people, who tend to assimilate a lot of things. It was important to have this debate, it will have to be continued. There are things on which we absolutely cannot compromise and I thank the minister for citing them, such as the death penalty. He also recalled that, beyond words, there was no initiative. I believe that there will be no such thing as Turkey must measure the extent to which it would be a point of no return.
