ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u1	Minister, you probably remember that it used to be a cumbersome procedure to obtain a driving licence. It still is. The candidate passes his exam. He gets three documents: the result of his exam, the proof he paid and an application form. He's going to the city with that. Fortunately, the picture on the driver's license is now the same as on the identity card. That photo's being sent to an outside firm. That outside firm makes the driver's license and sends it to the county. The person concerned will receive a note with the message to collect the driver's license. All this is based on the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998. I believe that we have solutions in 2016 to make it all a bit more efficient and less cumbersome. Minister, are you prepared to change the regime in order to simplify and digitize it? I'm linking it to the Mercurius database, the database for driving licences. Is there any possibility of linking the driving licence to external company debt securities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u2	(...) the provisional licence shall be issued by the mayor or his authorised representative. Simplifying and digitising the removal process and changing the arrangements for it still needs to be examined. In any case, a distinction must be made between the issue of a provisional driving licence and the issue of a permanent driving licence. In issuing a provisional driving licence, the driving examination centres are closely involved and a modification of the procedure should be carried out in consultation with the regions. There is already a link between the Mercurius database and the manufacturer of driving licences, Zetes. The application for a driving licence shall be sent electronically to the producer who shall deliver the licence to the municipality within two days of the application.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the antoyord. If I understand correctly, there is indeed already a link with an external firm. It's about the final driving licence, not about the provisional driving licence. Now the final driving licence is sent by that external company to the municipality first, after which the municipality forwards it to the person himself. In fact, there could be a direct link between the external firm and the person himself, where the municipality is digitally aware that a licence has been issued by the Mercury project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u5	Minister, I am glad to be able to ask another Minister about the state of play in the Iron Rhine dossier. It's a file that's been discussed several times in this house. A good year ago, I asked the then Minister for Mobility for an update on the dossier. We were then told that fundamental questions had to be answered, including the feasibility of an alternative route for the historic route of the Iron Rhine, namely the route via Weert, Roermond, Venlo, Viersen to Düsseldorf. The implementation period of this new study would be approximately 18 months. It would have been agreed to set up a technical working group between the three countries concerned and the two regions of the Community, Flanders and North Rhine-Westphalia, in preparation for a ministerial meeting of the same parties. What is the status of this file? Is the technical working group working in the meantime? Who's part of that on the Belgian side? Where is the work of the working party? When is the ministerial meeting scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u6	Mr Vanvelthoven, as my predecessor stated in this committee, the Flemish Region submitted a dossier to Europe at the end of February 2015 in order to receive financial support within the framework of the call for proposals launched in September 2014. All interested parties, the Netherlands, the Flemish Region, the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia and the federal authorities of Germany and Belgium, then confirmed their intention to contribute to the implementation of this study, which is called Rhein-Ruhr Rail Connection 3RX. With this study Flanders wishes to investigate three routes. First, the historical route of the Iron Rhine from Antwerp via Budel border, Weert, detour Roermondtunnel, under Meinweg, Vlodrop border to Rheydt in Germany. Secondly, the A 52 alternative from Antwerp via Budel border, Weert, from the Meuse Crossing, a new railway line north of Roermond along the N 280 which in Germany passes on the A 52 to Mönchengladbach. Thirdly, from Antwerp via Budel border, Weert, Roermond, Maaslijn, Venlo border to Viersen in Germany. The study that has been running since the end of last year and is being conducted by THV Arcadis, Transport & Mobility Leuven, Ecorys and Railistics ART Ecorail will last eighteen months. The final result is expected by the end of June 2016. The following points will be addressed in detail for the above-mentioned route: firstly, spatial impact and impact on the environment of a Rhine-Ruhr rail link; secondly, technical feasibility and construction costs of the project; thirdly, economic feasibility in terms of costs, revenues, risks and financing. The study bureau presented its plan of approach to the steering committee on 15 December 2015. The last meeting of the Steering Committee took place on Thursday 21 April 2016. At this last meeting it was agreed that it would not be appropriate at this time to hold consultations at ministerial level. However, this does not prevent bilateral contacts between ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u7	Madam President, Minister, thank you for this state of affairs. I understand that the study should be completed by the end of June, so very soon. We will have little opportunity to discuss this with each other in July, but I would be pleased if you would inform those Members interested in this dossier of the results of the study as soon as you know it, so that Parliament also knows which direction this dossier is heading.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u8	Mr Minister, in 2012, France and Belgium concluded a bilateral agreement on the exchange of information and personal data relating to the holders of a vehicle registration certificate, in accordance with European Directive 2011/82/EU. I would add that this question also concerns the Netherlands, where we find the same situation. As a first step, this bilateral agreement only addressed offences that were within the purview of the police forces. This exchange, which takes place via the EUCARIS system, was expanded in 2015. It now also identifies the owner of a vehicle that has not paid its parking fee. While this agreement has promising objectives, I wonder, however, about the effectiveness of its implementation. Minister, what means does the Mobility - DIV FPS have to find the current address of the holder of a vehicle registered in France or the Netherlands when the latter has changed his domicile on French territory? Indeed, while the Mobility FPS can now provide the identity of the vehicle owner, the accuracy of his address is not always correct. You can see here, Minister, that I am questioning you as an agent of a city! In the absence of a system such as the National Register in France, how can the competent municipal authorities find the owner of the vehicle who did not report his change of address? Where the number of files opened concerning French plates can be quite substantial in large communes, the problem of outdated addresses can lead to a significant loss of money and unnecessary costs. My questions are clearly about how the Mobility FPS provided for the recovery procedure in the event of non-payment of fees/finches after the sending of reminders. What about the recovery procedure? Does a study of French or Dutch bailiffs deal with the recovery of unpaid debts? Is the procedure still dead if the offender decides not to pay? To be concrete, Brussels welcomes many foreign visitors who come by car and who never pay the fines imposed on them and/or the administrative penalties resulting from the non-payment of the parking fee via the timers. This non-payment represents an exorbitant cost to Brussels. Apparently, communication between IVD and neighbouring countries does not really work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u9	Madam President, the exchange of data takes place through the EUCARIS European platform. In concrete terms, by encoding in the system data relating to the offence whose license plate, the police service receives instantly in exchange the contact details of the holder of the license plate. The exchange of registration data has actually been operational with France since 30 June 2012. Foreign offenders are sent a transaction proposal accompanied by information to make a transfer. It is not possible at this stage to determine the proportion of French offenders. In total, foreign offenders paid close to 9 million euros in 2014 and more than 12 million in 2015. The exchange of data is not limited to the Netherlands and France, with which we have concluded bilateral agreements. The one with the Netherlands was most recently. European Directive 2015/413 has set up an identical system for all Member States, except that it is limited to the eight most problematic road safety offences, namely speeding, passing a red light, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or using a gsm, not wearing a seat belt and helmet and driving on an unauthorized track. These are serious offences. These exchanges are not intended to give access to other databases such as the Belgian National Register or its equivalent if it exists in other European countries. Each Member State is therefore dependent on the procedures for updating the State consulted. Aware of the problems that this can cause when, for example, the address indicated is no longer valid, my services asked the French national contact point on 15 April last about possible solutions. This request has not yet received a response. The Mobility and Transport FPS did not provide for any specific recovery procedure for charges or parking charges. The matter of charges or parking charges is indeed a competence of the Regions and the collection procedures which apply are governed either by civil law or by tax law. However, the Road Traffic Police Act allowed for the use of hooves in the case of decriminalized parking offences. The aim is clearly to avoid impunity for foreign offenders for whom the collection of the fine is more random. A number of Belgian cities use it. In the Netherlands, this system is widespread for foreign drivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u10	Thank you, Minister. This agreement has been extended to France and the Netherlands concerning unpaid parking, and not only to serious mistakes, with the use of the hoof you mentioned. However, this system is not yet working. I will come back to you more informally regarding the response of the French contact point. If the Mobility FPS could also ask the question at the Dutch point of contact regarding the collection system and addresses of unpaid fines, this would help the big cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u11	Maybe you could ask me an oral question about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u12	You can ask for your administration and simply inform me of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u13	Mr Minister, for several months, many residents of the north-western communes of Brussels have complained of an increase in the overflight of their homes, which causes severe noise nuisances. According to the airport mediator, it would result from several weather conditions. Indeed, the trajectory of the aircraft depends on the orientations of the wind, since they have to take off and land in front of it. In the case of a strong east wind, Runway 07 is used more intensively for landings. The aircraft are therefore obliged to fly over the north-west of the Brussels Region, more commonly referred to as the "Channel Road". We are concerned that these occasional nuisances will not become much more frequent this summer. As part of the Brussels Airport runway maintenance programme, work on the 01/19 cross-sectional runway would be scheduled from 26 July to 25 September. In particular, it is planned to renew the top layers of asphalt or to install an LED markup. During the duration of this work, the runway in question would therefore be completely closed. It will be only on the night of August 26th to September 25th. If the east or north wind blows too hard, preferential tracks cannot be used. Landings will then be diverted to Runway 07. This would force aircraft to fly even further over the north-west of Brussels and its densely populated neighbourhoods at low altitude. Moreover, we have experienced this situation last year. I would also point out that the Canal route is authorized for aeroplanes with a count quota of four or less. Minister, how can we prevent the Canal route from being overexploited in the event of an easterly wind? What other solutions could be? Will the rules on the quota count be complied with? Is there a restricted list of low-noise aircraft allowed to take the Canal route? If so, is it taken into account in the selection of aircraft sent on the Canal route? What answers will you give to the actions initiated before the Court of First Instance, in particular by the government of the Brussels Region, as well as on the Canal Road? Is the procedure for renovating the runways during the summer already fixed? What means will be used to minimize noise pollution to local residents? What communication is planned for the residents and local authorities affected by these inconvenient overflights in order to inform and, if possible, reassure them? I am intervening, Mr Minister, on this aspect of the Brussels overflight issue because, as you know, the difficulties are much more diverse and wider, and that the Brusselsers, the elected representatives and the regional government are waiting with great interest and impatience, I would say, for the consultation in which you have been proactively engaged as soon as you enter your new post as Minister. It goes without saying that this dossier, on the table of successive ministers in this office for a very long time, is very important for the Brussels people and we expect it to land. There is no miracle solution, but we want this to happen in consultation for the benefit of those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Schepmans, I will reply directly on the stage of work. I had already provided a number of answers. The selection of runways in service is governed by aviation regulations, the application of the Preferred Runway System (PRS) published in the Belgian AIP and the operational constraints to which the air traffic control service is subject. This summer, Runway 01 will be the subject of major work leading to its temporary closure. In the event of strong east or north winds, the use of Preferential Runway 25 is and will be impossible for obvious aviation safety reasons and given the non-availability of Runway 01, runways 07L and 07R will be used. A VOR procedure is available for these two runways, but its technical characteristics (e.g. relatively high decision-making minimas) could render it unavailable by poor visibility or low ceiling, resulting in the operational closure of the airport. As a result, a more efficient PBN procedure will be implemented on 07L during the duration of the work. An evaluation of the use of the PBN system is planned at the end of this provisional phase and during the work the VOR procedures will remain available. It should be noted that the system of preferential runways will remain applicable during the work and therefore, except for exceptional weather conditions, runways 25 will be used mostly. Communication to residents about the work is the responsibility of Brussels Airport Company. As far as legal proceedings are concerned, I will ask you for a little patience with the answer. Indeed, I have taken with me the answers to the first 60 questions on the agenda and I will be given the remaining answers. If you don't mind, I'll answer it later, along with the answer I'll give to Mrs Lalieux on this. Madam President, I would like to add one element. The procedure for the use of 07L and 07R will always remain applicable under the same conditions as previously by east wind. But when visibility conditions are not well met, PBN technology will be used for approach and landing manoeuvres. Otherwise, the VOR procedure is applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u15	Madam President, I wanted to urge the minister to tell him how essential it is to establish genuine communication with the local residents and authorities concerned. Last year there were many questions and delays on the part of the inhabitants and also on the part of the local authorities, because it was not clear why the flights were being carried out at that time. No procedure informed the inhabitants of the reason for these changes in the overflight of the canal road and of their duration. When residents are informed, positive contact is established, as they do not feel set aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u16	Minister, I have a question about the historical debts arising from the commercial activities of our railway companies. In 2006, SNCB-Holding sold its shares of ABX Logistics to a private player. The entire ABX adventure saddled SNCB with a debt mountain of EUR 1.2 billion. These figures date back to 2005. Without underlying activities generating cash flows to pay off these debts, there is little prospect of improvement. Debt even grew to 1.8 billion euros in 2013. These figures are from the Court of Auditors. So the problem is getting bigger and bigger. In addition, debts have been incurred from commercial activities which have since been divested by SNCB. For example, in its audit, the Court also refers to EUR 261 million of outstanding debt from the freight sector to the public sector. As there are no commercial activities anymore, it is highly unlikely that this historical debt will be phased out with commercial revenues. In its latest report on this subject, the Court of Auditors also warns us about its consequences. In the 2014 railway reform, SNCB-Holding's debt was divided between both SNCB and Infrabel. As a result, it is no longer excluded that historical debts from those former commercial activities are financed by federal public funds. In concrete terms, therefore, tax money may be used to pay off commercial debts. That is why I have a few questions for you, Minister. How was the holding sector's net financial debt distributed between SNCB and Infrabel during the 2014 reform? How was the net financial debt of the holding sector Commercial Sector distributed among the two companies? What guarantees does the government have that the historical debt caused by commercial activities such as ABX Logistics and SNCB Logistics is not financed by federal public funds? How are SNCB and Infrabel going to pay off the historical debts of the commercial sector that are no longer subject to activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u17	The overall net financial debt of SNCB-Holding on 31 December 2013 was distributed among SNCB and Infrabel as follows: both the debts of ABX and the commercial debts that could be directly allocated to the operator and the infrastructure manager were first distributed. The remaining balance was distributed globally according to a 45% key for Infrabel and 55% for SNCB. The distribution of the remaining balance has resulted in abstraction of the origin of the liabilities transferred. The debt was distributed on the basis of the principles incorporated in the Royal Decree of 7 November 2013, Article 5, § 1.4. The distribution was the subject of extensive consultations with the European Commission, which did not raise any objections. There are no guarantees that the historical debt caused by the commercial activities is not financed by federal public funds. The stabilisation and/or debt reduction under SNCB and Infrabel are part of the financing plan to be drawn up by the two companies in the context of the negotiations for a new business plan for the period 2016-2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u18	Minister, I remember that we have no guarantee that the historical debt caused by commercial activities will not be reduced by federal public funds. I also remember that we will now be asking in the company plans to finally get the stabilisation and reduction of debt. I therefore call on the opposition's colleagues to remember this when they criticise our savings plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u19	Madam President, I apologize for being a little late. Mrs De Coninck, as far as commercial debts are concerned, I think you should tell your current coalition partner the story. Mr Minister, this is a follow-up question following the committee meeting of 19 April on the security fee of EUR 6.19 per plane ticket for passengers departing from Brussels Airport. I looked again at the answer you gave me then, and I would like to go into more detail on this subject. As far as I am concerned, it is essential to look at where the security funds requested have actually gone. I quoted the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 in my written question. Article 4 (4) sets out four conditions under which the condition that such contribution should be effective. I am not going to quote it in my oral explanation, but I am looking again at the figures for 2015. There have been 23.5 million passengers. If a calculation is made of the contribution, then I come to more than EUR 158 million for security. I'll come to my questions. How much of these EUR 158 million was effectively spent on operating conditions as required by the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004, Article 4, fourth paragraph, in particular the airport inspection and the maintenance of security and security on the ground, excluding the tasks of general police and airport inspection as well as military tasks? Secondly, how many staff in charge of security and security are the revenues from Brussels Airport Company's security fee financed? Thirdly, what is the cost of the other operating conditions provided for in the already quoted KB? So far, my very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u20	(...) This creates a balanced balance between the various international airports, both in terms of security measures and in terms of the translation of these costs into airport charges. The aeronautical tariffs shall be set in such a way that the estimated revenue, estimated cost, operational costs, depreciation costs, tax and capital costs (on infrastructure investments) covers all regulated activities. These regulated activities are part of the operating conditions set out in the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004. These rates are set for a period of five years to ensure the different activities linked to the operating conditions of the Brussels National Airport. This commitment shall be based on an estimate of the costs, investment and tariff volume for the next five years. The last commitment was made in 2010 and covered the period April 2011 to March 2016. The estimated costs shall be converted into eligible revenues translated into different separate rates valid for the next five years. The reality of costs and revenues will differ from the estimates. For example, in reality a real tariff volume due to changes (...) will be higher or lower than the initial estimate. For 2012 and 2013, the number of passengers was lower than the estimates. This was translated into a decrease in revenues of (...). The sharp increase in traffic in 2015 has led to slightly higher revenues. Over the whole period 2011-2015 costs and revenues have been broadly aligned. The five-year revision of the rates is intended to ensure this alignment between costs in revenue also in the longer term. This has led to a decrease in aerobic tariffs of 7.7 % from 2016, as a result of the strong increase in traffic in 2014 and 2015. The costs and revenues of the operating condition were also taken into account on an annual basis by the Railway Transport Regulatory Service and the operation of Brussels Airport. The tasks arising from the security operating condition include the security control screening of passengers, personnel and hand baggage when transferring from landside, all accessible public areas, to airside, and the security control of holds, baggage, plus access control between landside and airside. In order to ensure the quality of these tasks, investments have been made in safety-related infrastructure, such as screening devices for passengers and baggage. Staff shall also be recruited to carry out and monitor the safety tasks. By way of illustration, these costs cover just under 1 000 security agents employed either directly or under take by Brussels Airport Company. All these elements are reimbursed by the above-mentioned aeronautical tariffs. The estimate of 2015 airgates makes wrong use of the total number of passengers. However, the security fee applies only to the number of departing passengers. The calculation should therefore be halved. The expected decline in traffic as well as the decrease in tariffs in 2016 will lead to a sharp decline in revenues in 2016. Brussels Airport Company must continue to fulfil its obligations in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u21	Madam President, Minister, in connection with the first part of your reply, I know those texts, particularly in the preparation of the royal decrees, which were used as justification. The same applies to a decrease in the investment table. My point, however, is as follows, and I have not received a sufficient response. A sum of money has been received annually, and the question we have to ask in Parliament and also in the control services is: how many of these revenues have been effectively invested in security? That is essential and important, and people are entitled to that information. I do not think that people are discussing EUR 6 or EUR 7, but they have the right to know whether the contribution to the ticket is actually invested in safety. However, when I make the account, I fear that some of that money has been used for other activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u22	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the social unrest a while ago at Belgocontrol. On 2 March, your predecessor stated that she would take into account cognitive aging in the design of the careers. An increase in the age of availability from 55 to 58 years would be proposed. This government, of course, wishes to decide on this in consultation with the social partners. Without prejudice to the right to strike, a proposal is being drawn up which provides for a guaranteed service in the event of a strike. Maintaining aircraft has a huge economic and social impact and damage. My question also contains questions about figures, but I will now skip them if you can give me the answers in writing. Minister, I have two specific questions. What is the state of social dialogue? What is the state of play and what timing is at the forefront of the discussions on guaranteed service provision? In the meantime, we know that the government has obtained a kind of watch-keeping service for air traffic controllers. Does that work? Will there be a regulation on the guaranteed service before the summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u23	(...) with regard to the disponibility of controllers, a ground-breaking regime for all air traffic controllers currently employed occurred after a temporary agreement was concluded in 2014. Prior to the 2011 federal pension reform, a traffic controller with disponibility could go from 55 years and with early retirement from 60 years. Since the pension reform, a minimum career of 44 years is required in addition to a minimum age in order to be able to retire early at 60 years. Disponibility over five years would therefore not be sufficient for most employees to cover the period between 55 and the day of the early retirement. On a proposal from the government, the age at which traffic controllers can open up disponibility at the earliest was taken to the day on which they can open early retirement or retirement pension at five years, but not before reaching the age of 58. However, the increase is phased in to allow the operational air traffic control unit to absorb the impact of this increase in age at operational level and to enable the social partners to provide the necessary measures. The above does not alter the fact that the profession of air traffic controller meets the criteria of a heavy occupation and should therefore be included in the list of heavy professions. The conclusions from the available studies are unclear as to whether the decrease in required cognitive skills is age-related or personal-related. However, we note that all air traffic control organisations in Europe, similar to Belgocontrol, have an early retirement scheme for the air traffic controllers group between 55 and 58 years old. They are all based on the same principles of a heavy, intensive and stressful profession. The fact that air traffic controllers are allowed to stop working earlier is a consequence of the heavy physical requirements imposed, including on visibility and concentration capacity. On 31 December 2015, 742.14 full-time equivalents were employed by Belgocontrol. The total remuneration in 2015 was 71 609 242 euros. These figures relate only to employees who are actually employed at Belgocontrol and are therefore exclusive of traffic controllers in disponibility, 32, and workers on mission at Eurocontrol, 6. On 31 December 2015, 260.6 full-time equivalent traffic controllers were employed by Belgocontrol. The total remuneration in 2015 was 32 860 334 euros. These figures exclude the experts, 17.8 full-time equivalents. The average gross wage including premiums and other financial benefits of an air traffic controller in 2015 was 133 037 euros on an annual basis. The median gross wage including premiums and other financial benefits of an air traffic controller in 2015 was 132 191 euro on an annual basis. Negotiations on a guaranteed service have been ongoing with trade unions for some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. With regard to the increase in the age of disability from 55 to 58 years, I understand from your answer that this is in line with what is being followed in Europe by other companies and services. However, I did not receive an answer to the question about the guaranteed service. What is the situation there at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u25	We're trying to find a solution. But the social agreements improve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u26	As was agreed with Mrs Schepmans, who was unable to obtain an answer at the end of her question, I shall ask my question No 12265. Secondly, Mrs Schepmans will reply, since she has already asked her question. It's a little complicated, but that's how this commission works!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u27	Mr Minister, the government of the Brussels-Capital Region has announced that it has brought before the Brussels Court of First Instance three actions for environmental cessation in the case of the overflight of the capital, which would aim to extend the hours at night until 7 a.m. instead of 6 a.m., to abolish the Canal route and to demand a tightening of the turn to the left. Given the inertia of the federal government in seeking a solution to this thorny issue, it seems legitimate for the Brussels government to take legal action to defend the health and living conditions of the citizens of the capital. Minister, what answers are you going to give to the environmental cessation actions undertaken by the Region? When are you finally going to propose to the federal government solutions to reduce the overflight of densely populated neighbourhoods? When are you going to give up "playing the watch" (in this case, this remark was rather aimed at your predecessor) and make it clear that you are refusing the status quo to the detriment of the Brussels people? I would also like to know if you will first review the flight routes before putting them into the vliegwet. For us, that would indeed be unacceptable. What is the timing of the noise control authority? Will you include representatives from the three regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u28	Madam President, my question is only about the overflight and is therefore not about regional recourse. Thank you for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u29	No problem, Mr. Hellings! We are trying to reduce Mr. Minister's time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u30	Mr Minister, like you in this committee, the airport mediator explains on his Twitter and Facebook accounts that the mass overflight of the north of Brussels in recent weeks was explained by wind conditions in the east and therefore had nothing to do with the implementation of the new RNP approach procedure on Runway 07, which we have already discussed in these places. At the same time, he explains that our country is exposed more frequently than before to a easterly wind. I assume that the use of this track could increase in the future. The inhabitants of the north of Brussels and its periphery have experienced in recent weeks what the inhabitants of the east have unfortunately suffered for more than ten years. What happened on Runway 07 has in any case given us a taste of the impact that the massive and systematic overflight of the northern communes of Brussels will have during the work that will be undertaken this summer or even beyond if the RNP procedure was chosen by Belgocontrol. Let me remind you that 320,000 people are affected by this problem. As you know, there is an exception to the preferential use of runways when the rear wind on runway 25 R exceeds 7 knots, including gusts. This standard was introduced in 2005. For thirty years, it was 8 knots, then 10 knots, including gusts, for a short period. The relevance of these standards can of course be discussed, but the fact is that they exist and must therefore be applied today. Runways 07 and 01 have always been considered secondary to the 25R and 25R. Mr Minister, was Belgocontrol's choice of the use of Runway 07 in recent weeks justified by exceeding wind standards? Associations of residents regularly denounce the use of Runway 01 while wind standards are not exceeded, evoking at best a laziness of Belgocontrol in order not to change the road, or at worst a deliberate manipulation, which would be serious. I imagine the same reasoning applies to 07. How do you explain this abuse of wind standards? Do you confirm that our country has more easterly winds than before? Can you give me any statistics on this development for three years, or at least tell me if that's true? It would then be a consequence of climate change, according to the mediator. Finally, in the framework of the structural solutions on which you are working, like your predecessor at the time, has the revision of wind standards been identified as a work path?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u31	Madam President, I think I have already raised this last issue with Mrs Schepmans, and again before. Mr Hellings, as you know, the choice of runways in service is governed by aviation regulations, the implementation of the PRS published in the Belgian AIP and the operational constraints to which the air traffic control service is subjected. This choice of runways is regularly challenged by the residents residing below the selected air corridors. The Mobility Office attaches great importance to this because strict respect for the spirit of the texts defining the conditions of use of the PRS is and will remain the cornerstone of an equitable distribution of noise around the airport, respecting, above all, the safety rules. A properly applied PRS will contribute to a substantial reduction in the overall noise burden incurred by the airport residents. A working group was set up in May between my firm, DGTA and Belgocontrol to ensure a common understanding of the rules governing PRS. As a result of these meetings, a clarification note will be prepared on my initiative to limit any non-compliant interpretation of the conditions for the application of wind standards and SRPs. We also decided that in order to achieve maximum objectivity in the decision-making process, a technology decision support tool for the choice of the track in use will be installed at Belgocontrol in the control tower, with an overview of the situation of the parameters used as guidance and a recording of the data after the fact. This tool is already being used at other airports with similar problems, such as Basel and Schiphol. Its actual installation is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2016. It must be acknowledged that Belgocontrol has taken various initiatives in recent years to improve communication and transparency towards residents. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go to ensure that a better dialogue, a better understanding of everyone's expectations and needs are shared among all actors. As far as the evolution of wind direction is concerned, it is not yet possible to speak of any significant evolution in the long term. The 10-year averages for the last three decades are similar. However, Belgocontrol notes a high variability from year to year over the last five years. The years 2010 and 2013 are clearly above average in terms of wind of the northeast quarter, but 2012 and 2014 are rather below. This variability obviously has a direct influence on the use of runways. The study of wind standards is one of the many tracks analysed by my firm as part of the fly-over file. Mrs Lalieux, this is an extremely complex matter. An engineer tries to understand everything, including the last bolt and the last screw in a room. All components must be clearly identified. There is no simple global solution that can be executed immediately. There's little room for "there's only one". As far as the Brussels-Capital Region's legal action is concerned, you will notice that my political formation did not prevent its Brussels representatives from joining the action of the Region. I had indeed taken note of the motion for a resolution of the Brussels Parliament. As a democrat, I do so regardless of the political families who have joined it. I'm surprised, Madam President, that you accused me of "playing the watch"...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u32	No, not you. I was talking about the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u33	... when I've been in charge of this case for two months. I'm assuming, because I'm continuing. That said, it has remained without a comprehensive and equitable solution for 15 years. I allow myself an incise: if I look at all the overflight roads – west road, short turn, canal, Noordrand, etc. – and that I take the same card, because I have a good memory of the political figures because of my age, I can put the name of each of them on every way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u34	That's right. Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u35	I therefore invite all of them to participate, and that is my will, in the collective search for a fair solution. I mean: balanced and fair. To provide legal stability, a law is the ultimate tool. In this case, other actions must be taken, as the law alone will not achieve a general solution that can be accepted. All these initiatives must be part of realistic programming. I hear the will of all parties to move forward quickly, and I am aware of that. However, allow me time to finish the analysis of the case, which had been largely initiated and continued by Mrs Galant, before proposing solutions. This also applies to work on the independent authority. I'll see to it that it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is no easy solution in this folder, in which many have broken their teeth. There will have to be a fair solution, an agreed and concerted solution that takes into account the quota count, the hours of night, a restrictive list of aircraft that can pass over the Brussels Region. For me, communication to local authorities, regional governments and local residents is extremely important. You talked about communications that would be made by Brussels Airport and then by Belgocontrol. This communication is precisely what was lacking in the past summer, which is why I would like to insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u37	This is a communication to give the start and end date of the work and what this implies at the operational level during the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u38	I insist that this communication be made in an effective manner. Minister, thank you for your constructive approach to this thorny issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u39	Minister, I asked you another question in writing and I congratulate you on the tone and constructiveness of your answers. It's nice to have a discussion with you. You did not hesitate to reply in writing that for the use of the 07 in the north of Brussels, it was an AIP amendment, that is to say a definitive road that had first been chosen by your predecessor, and then you changed the deal. I congratulate you on this because it is politically courageous to admit that your predecessor was wrong. It is also extremely constructive to imagine lasting solutions with all the residents. When we talk about the north of Brussels, we talk about 320,000 people. As far as preferential wind standards are concerned, you are talking about implementing a DGTA working group at your firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u40	He's in class.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u41	That's very good. There is a precedent, it is the publication of the roads taken by the planes. The BATC site does not always inform the right roads. If there is ever a decision support software and communication to the public, correct roads should be mentioned by actors such as Belgocontrol and DGTA and people should be able to get an informed idea. We will be very attentive. I congratulate you already on the change of attitude and tone, which are more reassuring than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u42	Mr Minister, the important thing here is transparency in this matter. And that's clearer, especially in relation to Runway 07. Of course, I'm not questioning you. But the government, Ms.Galant, had given us a timing: "In 2014 and 2015, I consult, and in 2016, I act and the bill will arrive before July 21, 2016." Excuse us, but we are not responsible for the succession of ministers. We do want to act on this fundamental issue for all regions. On the other hand, I didn't hear you about what you're going to do with the injunctions. During our discussion on your policy note, I heard you say that you were going to act very quickly to set up the noise control authority, that it would in any case be dissociated from the other file. I think that it is absolutely necessary to move forward quickly and that the Regions must be part of this supervisory authority, because it is important for everyone to be able to talk on the basis of the same information. The problem, as you said, is that the information is different according to Belgocontrol, DGTA, Region, etc. The real information has to turn. I believe that the working groups you set up are fundamental. That had not been done and we have lost, I think, a lot of time in the previous months of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u43	Two elements. As regards the action for cessation, we have asked the SPF to insure, knowing that there is also an action for cessation of the Noordrand prior to the action for cessation of Brussels. It's taking its course. As far as the independent authority is concerned, the way of the royal decree is privileged for the time being, but we want the Council of State to validate that there is no objection to this being dissociated from the law. Last thing. When we say: independent authority, it must be independent authority. In models that exist abroad, not all members are specialists in aeronautics. There are different components. Depending on the objectives, tasks assigned to the independent authority, different functional profiles within the authority will have to be defined. We favour the royal decree, provided that the Council of State does not identify a substantive element preventing it from being dissociated. In any case, that is the way we are following.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u45	Mr Minister, the FABEC agreement dates back to December 2010 and has been virtually wall-to-wall ever since. The big players in the story, France and Germany, naturally defend their own interests and the smaller players, including Belgium, are watching with patience. For Belgocontrol it is very important that it clearly positions itself between the other five countries. Because of its unfavourable financial and structural situation which has been dragging on for several years now, our air traffic controller is not the most attractive of the group and it is not unthinkable that, in the event of any restructuring under FABEC, Belgocontrol as a whole should be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u46	In order to safeguard the position of Belgocontrol and to breathe some life into the FABEC story, we have been working for a long time to create a unified Benelux air space, in which the smaller players of the group unite and take a position against the big countries. This was also included in the coalition agreement: "The aim is to integrate services and airspace in the Benelux context, as a step towards a unified European sky. Military and civilian air traffic control shall be integrated. My questions to you are therefore the following, Minister. What is the current status of the FABEC dossier? What objectives have already been achieved and what is the position of Belgocontrol in the current state of affairs? What steps have already been taken in the FAB-Benelux story? How far is the integration of military and civil air traffic control? Have there been any talks with the Netherlands and Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u47	Mr Wollants, the Functional Airspace Block Europe Central (FABEC) is a European project that hopes to increase airspace efficiency in the centre of Europe and extends across Belgium, France, Germany, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland. FABEC is based on the European Commission's SES initiative. SES stands for Single European Sky or Unified European Airspace. The SES project restructures airspace into functional blocks that are separate from national borders. Until the end of last year, three major projects were launched within FABEC, including a project led by Belgocontrol. In October 2015, Member States decided to suspend them for financial reasons. The FABEC operational group intends to re-initiate on the basis of small local projects. Certain synergies between Belgocontrol and Defence have already led to an agreement and are currently being implemented for the joint publication of aviation information and the installation of a new radar in Florennes. Soon, military traffic controllers will be present at the CANAC centre. This will facilitate cooperation between the two entities. At the request of Defence and Mobility Ministers, Belgocontrol and Defence conducted a study in 2016 on possible synergies between civilian and military air traffic control. The results were delivered to the ministers concerned with a view to a decision. Since last year negotiations have been under way to allow Belgocontrol to manage the airspace of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to concentrate on its airport activity, to allow joint procurement of technical systems and to make Belgocontrol a service provider. Belgocontrol and Analux have completed a feasibility study and a cost-benefit analysis, which show a positive impact for our service providers. The Belgian and Luxembourg Transport Ministers must submit a decision to both governments. Belgium is Luxembourg's historical partner since Belgocontrol already provides air traffic control services for the MUAC for Luxembourg airspace and both countries are part of a common air traffic area. The aim is to establish a level playing field which will strengthen the position of both Belgium and Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You mentioned a number of things about Luxembourg. You have spoken a lot less about the Netherlands. It is true that we have been working with Luxembourg for a long time and even providing air traffic control services there, but the question is whether we are going to do the same with the Netherlands. Are we gonna work together there, too? You mentioned three major FABEC projects. We know that some of these projects are happening between the Dutch and the Germans precisely, in order to shift funding from our airspace to another place. So I think it is very important that you also consider the possibilities for working with the Netherlands. Otherwise, we will be in trouble when cooperation between the Netherlands and DFS is further established. We know that in the context of the Analux dossier, DFS, the German ANSP, is also lurking around the corner to see if there is anything to be achieved in that project. That is why I think it is a good thing to take a step back to the initial intention of FAB Benelux as a stepping stone, to see if there is any possibility of forming a strategic block that will enable us to actually achieve that FABEC. But as you may suspect, we are going to discuss this for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u49	The granting of new licences for ground handling at the national airport even though new sounds a bit strange as it has been since 2011-2012. Let me outline the situation. In the event of a new award for two licences to be awarded for groundhandling, the licences were granted to Flightcare and Swissport. The other two candidates, Aviapartner and the British Menzies, contested that decision. The court of commerce then suspended the granting of the licences, after which Brussels Airport appealed. Pending a ruling, two interim licences were granted to Flightcare and Aviapartner, who had the handling prior to the new award. In the meantime, the verdict has been dropped. It would then be expected that the interim licences will be terminated and that the licences will be granted to Flightcare and Swissport. Meanwhile, Swissport has taken over Flightcare. As Swissport assumes that it obtained that licence lawfully in 2011, it wishes to use it for a period of seven years, from the time of the effective award and therefore not from the time of the original award, which would expire in 2018. The other licence released by the acquisition would then be free to distribute again. What will be done to bring the licences awarded in 2011 into force? Is there going to be a new procedure for the license? What will happen to put the license granted to Swissport in 2011 into operation? When will these new licences be officially allowed to start? Is that date in the past? Will Swissport and possibly another, yet to be awarded, partner be able to make use of this? Will the new licences have a duration of seven years, counting from the 2011 award or from the time they can effectively enter and be used? Thank you for your answers in a very complex file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u50	It is indeed very complex. The Board of Directors of Brussels Airport Company, BAC, granted two licences to Flightcare and Swissport operators after a selection procedure in 2011. Menzies and Aviapartner appealed against this and the decision of BAC was annulled by the Chamber of Commerce on 29 November 2011. In order to ensure continuity of service, pending a final decision, the aviation administration granted a provisional licence to Aviapartner and Flightcare, which were holders of a licence until 2011. Flightcare was taken over by Swissport in 2012. On 22 October 2015, the European Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the Belgian State challenging the granting of a provisional licence for such a long period. On 19 November 2015, a court ruling confirmed the decision on the 2011 licence award. As indicated in the letter of formal notice and despite the fact that the 2011 selection was validated by the court decision of 19 November 2015, it is no longer possible to take back the result. On the one hand, because as a result of the acquisition of Flightcare by Swissport, only one candidate remains of the two selected at that time. On the other hand, because the two remaining licence years are too short a period to grant a profitable licence to an operator. A February 2016 study on the scenarios for the future of the handling services showed that liberalisation is not feasible in the current context, given the lack of infrastructure. The problems mentioned in this connection were further aggravated by the attacks on 22 March last. In view of these elements, we have decided to initiate a new selection procedure for two licences. Both licences will be valid for a period of seven years. The duration of those licences will start in the course of 2018. Swissport will be able to remain active until the end of October 2018 and Swissport will be able to remain active at Brussels airport during the specified seven-year period from 2011 to 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u51	Mr Minister, I will read your answer again anyway, because it is indeed a complex matter. I think we should be careful about that. In any case, we must seriously consider the approach. At the time, in 2011, we asked your predecessor, Mr Schouppe, whether a third handler would not be a good idea. Study work shows that, given the available infrastructure, it is not evident. So we will certainly look at how to deal with it. As always, we will also follow that file closely to fully safeguard our rights as a country and as a national airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u52	Mr Minister, on 12 April 2016, traffic was lame at Zaventem airport due to a shortage of air traffic controllers. On 20 April there were problems at the airports of Liège and Charleroi. The reason for these problems is the high number of absent air traffic controllers due to illness. Whether it was a misplaced action by air traffic controllers or not, the fact is that absenteeism is very high among air traffic controllers, and this indicates a structural problem with Belgocontrol. The air traffic controllers themselves are told that this is due to the mental and physical toll they pay for the work they do. The number of absentees with burn-out or illness is so high that it is not always possible to ensure a good service. Such situations, such as technical problems and the like, increase the stress of air traffic controllers, with all the consequences. I understand that one of the teams that was working at the time of the blackout in CANAC 2 on 27 May 2015 is still at least partly out of battle. My questions to you are therefore the following. What were the conclusions of the controllers sent to the absent air traffic controllers on 12 April 2016? How many absentees were there exactly at the time? What is the average duration of absence? How many air traffic controllers, who were working in CANAC 2 during the May 2015 breakdown, are currently absent? What measures do you wish to take to reduce absenteeism among air traffic controllers? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u53	Mr Wollants, of the traffic controllers scheduled on the timetable of 12 April 2016, seven traffic controllers reported ill before the start of their shift. On top of that, six traffic controllers left work early in the afternoon because of illness and six traffic controllers because they considered themselves not fit to work. A total of seven disease controls were carried out and started on 12 April 2016. The seven health checks found five employees unfit for work for the duration of the medical certificate. One check could not be carried out due to the absence of the staff member at the time of the check and one staff member had to take back the work earlier. For the diseases that started on 12 April 2016, the average duration of absence was 5.7 calendar days. No air traffic controller operating during the power outage in May 2015 is currently absent. The absenteeism is addressed both reactively, by targeted checks and by conversations with staff during and after the illness, as well as preventive, stand-by systems. Developing a vision and strategy on a human factor policy and welfare policy is a strategic priority of Belgocontrol in 2016. Currently, the replacements of sick traffic controllers are voluntary. Where a traffic controller is absent due to illness or for any other reason, a call shall be made to the available traffic controllers to take over their service on a voluntary basis and with a financial premium. Until recently, this system was always active and replacements were always found to ensure the service. Following the negotiations on the social agreement of 12 April 2016, this system has shown its limitations. Due to the absence of traffic controllers due to illness and the refusal of available traffic controllers to replace them on a voluntary basis, the minimum staff presence to ensure the operation could not be ensured. In order to avoid such situations, the social agreement of 12 April 2016 provides not only for additional recruitments, but also for the introduction of a stand-by system to replace the current voluntary replacement system in the composition of a pool of traffic controllers trained to operate in several towers and the possibility of recourse to EU traffic controllers on a contractual and fixed-term basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and this information. I think that we need to look at a number of issues further. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the written question I put to your predecessor on 29 February concerning the prevention of burn-outs by air traffic controllers, which was put on your board on 26 April. I suspect I could have the answer to that in the short term, given the expiry of the deadline at the end of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u55	Minister, at present the height of the station docks in Belgium still varies between 28 and 76 cm. Harmonisation of dock height is a long-standing demand of commuter associations. Indeed, this would allow easier level access in cars. This is an important element for people with reduced mobility and visually impaired people, but also for people travelling with a stroller or suitcase or even by bicycle. For railway operators, these differences also have an impact, in particular on the speed of embarkation and disembarkation on trains and thus ultimately on punctuality. This problem of harmonising the docks has an impact on the length of stops at the station and on compliance with commercial speed. In addition, when purchasing new equipment, operators must also integrate the compatibility of the height of the docks with the new equipment purchased. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. For the M7 market, on what platform height did SNCB rely on to complete its order? Are there any projects to standardise the height of the Belgian wharves? If so, what is the agenda set by SNCB to carry out this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u56	Mr Devin, for these M7 cars, SNCB has opted for conventional access doors at exactly the same height as for M5 and M6 cars with existing double floor equipment. It is out of operational necessity that SNCB continues to opt for conventional access doors above bogies. Otherwise, in the case of long trains arriving at a wharf in a bend such as in Brussels-Central, for example, the distance between the wharf and the train would be too great. For persons with reduced mobility, a specific car is provided for each train train. The car project fully meets European standards. The boarding height is in this case 62 cm. It is true that the height of the docks varies between 28 and 76 cm. However, SNCB opted to standardize the height of the docks at 76 cm. For technical reasons, 55 cm dock heights will still be tolerated in specific cases, for example in order not to bury an existing station building.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u57	I thank the minister for some of his response, but I wanted to know if any work would be done on the various docks of the entire SNCB network. Honestly, that's a real problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u58	Programming will be established, bearing in mind that the docks must be 76 cm high; this programming has not yet been finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u59	How soon will it be finalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u60	I don't lock myself in a calendar. The agenda has not yet been concluded because the objectives of both are not the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u61	I invite you to follow your own convictions. They could be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u62	Mr Minister, far more efficient than random roadside checks, the alcoholotest, called alcolock, prevents a vehicle from starting if its driver has been drinking too much remains relatively low in Belgium. It is currently equipping 27 vehicles, by decision of a judge. But this device that prevents you from starting your car if you've drunk too much could soon disembark on a large scale on Belgian territory. Indeed, we learned in the press that you are in favour of it. You would therefore like to encourage the installation of alcolock in the road transport sector (buses, school buses) and in company cars. Minister, within what time frame could the decision to impose them also on school buses and coaches be made? What steps should be taken to be able to install such a device in all vehicles in the country, including school buses and coaches?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u63	Mr Minister, questions about the alcohol lock are regularly asked in this committee. Your predecessor replied on 1 October 2015 that she was in favour of introducing a mandatory alcohol lock in school buses and cars. This would have been discussed both with the regions and with the car sector. In France, for example, since September last year bus drivers have been obliged to blow an alcohol lock before departure. Your predecessor also indicated that she wanted to encourage the installation of an alcohol lock in professional transport, such as the transport sector and the company's vehicle fleet. The government should set an example. On a repressive level, judges in our country have been able to impose an alcohol lock on car drivers since 1 October 2010. However, as my colleague has said, only 27 people have so far applied to the BIVV to follow a framework programme on the alcohol lock. One of the reasons for the poor application would be the high cost of the installation and rent of the alcohol lock and the accompanying programme, together with EUR 3 000 per year. However, the court may decide to deduct all or part of those costs from the fine. Finally, at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee of 13 April 2016, your predecessor expressed the intention to require judges to impose an alcohol lock on alcohol addicts, unless the judges give detailed reasons why they do not do so. I have the following questions, Minister. What is the state of play in the negotiations to introduce a compulsory alcohol lock in school buses and cars? Do you have any idea to what extent public service vehicles are equipped with an alcohol lock? Are you planning measures to address the causes of the lack of use of the alcohol lock, for example the high cost? What's the status today? How many people has the BIVV already accompanied or are still under supervision? Of how many judicial convictions that have not yet been enforced by the prosecution, has the BIVV known? Do you share your predecessor's view of obliging judges to have an alcohol lock for alcohol addicts, unless the judges give detailed reasons why they do not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u64	Mr Minister, I would like to add my own question. I will not repeat everything that has already been said by my fellow Members. I also refer to the answers that your predecessor has already expressed in this committee. The only element I would like to add is the introduction of an alcohol lock as an administrative sanction. In the Netherlands this has existed for many years and your predecessor has referred to it several times as a possible path to follow. From a certain level of promillage or in the event of recidivism, but only administratively, the person concerned is automatically imposed an alcohol lock. In the Netherlands, that procedure has meanwhile been suspended because of a ruling by the Dutch Council of State. That is why the question arises as to how we should look at it. At least we have to be careful about that. Mr Minister, following on from the questions put by my fellow Members, I would like to ask you whether you are still examining such an automatic administrative procedure, as your predecessor announced, or whether you are going on other ways of avoiding legal problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u65	Colleagues, the obligation of an alcohol lock on school buses and cars is not intended to stigmatise bus drivers, but to use preventively on driving without alcohol in the context of passenger transport. It is not currently possible to specify the date of entry into force of such a regulation in Belgium or to specify the types of transport that would be concerned. However, very soon contacts will be initiated with the regions and federations involved in order to initiate the reflection. Pending such regulation, it is currently possible to install such devices on a voluntary basis by transport operators. I regret the fact that there are hardly any public service vehicles equipped with an alcohol lock in our country at the moment. Other countries show that this can be done. In Finland, Iceland and Latvia, for example, alcohol locks were required by adding that requirement to the public procurement procedure for new vehicles. I want to change that also in Belgium for the better. The intention is to make the alcohol lock more visible and commonplace. It should not be stigmatising, but preventive, namely as a guarantee that the driver of the vehicle has not drunk alcohol. This will benefit all road users. Due to the high cost of the alcohol lock, especially in relation to existing penalties for driving under the influence, judges are not inclined to condemn offenders to an alcohol lock. I would like to change this by substantially increasing the fines and/or periods of expiry of the driving licence and by obliging the judges to impose an alcohol lock on alcohol addicts and offenders with high alcohol concentrations. Since the start of the implementation of the alcohol lock programme in 2013, the BIVV has accompanied a total of 40 convicts with an alcohol lock. The BIVV has no idea of the number of people who have since been sentenced to an alcohol lock and will still be offering themselves for the framework programme in the future. In relation to Mr Jef Van den Bergh's question, I can answer that my administration is preparing a draft law to amend the rules on the alcohol lock so that repeat drinkers and drivers with high levels of blood alcohol will be obliged by the judge to install an alcohol lock in their vehicles. Unlike the Netherlands, it will certainly be the judge who will force the alcohol lock, so that there can be no double punishment, as it turned out in the Netherlands. The judge also retains the freedom to condemn on the basis of physical incapacity or not to require the alcohol lock, provided that he motivates his decision. In that case, the right to steer shall lapse equal to the duration of the use of the alcohol lock.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to know whether a text is already being prepared and whether it has a deep conviction in this matter. Apart from the examples of Holland and Latvia, what is its deep conviction in this matter before meeting with its regional interlocutors? I did not get an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Just to clarify and to make sure that I have noted it correctly, let me repeat the following. Since the start there have been 40 convicts, but they have not necessarily had to install an alcohol lock. For the rest, Minister, I note that there is still a lot of work to be done. I'm following the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u68	Minister, I would like to endorse what the other speakers have said and look forward to the draft law that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u69	Mr President, Minister, the mobility situation in Belgium is increasingly worrying. According to the Mobility FPS, passenger transport will increase by more than 20% by 2030, whether by car or train, while rail and road networks are already saturated at peak times. The car is, and will probably remain, essential for travel within Wallonia and Flanders. But for the Brussels-Capital Region, almost half of the access to Brussels is via train, 47% coming from Flanders and 53% coming from Wallonia. The Nord-Midi junction is approaching its maximum capacity and constitutes a real bottleneck. Minister, what are your mobility plans to make it easier for Walloons to get to the capital, most often to work there? What are the levers of action that have been decided by Rail4Brussels in order to counter the problem that is being prepared?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u70	Mr Devin, mobility is a highly complex matter. Indeed, it falls under both federal and regional jurisdiction. Good cooperation between the different levels of power is essential. I will continue to advocate for a concerted response. In order to ensure effective intermodality, excellent coordination between SNCB and regional public transport companies, in particular, is needed. Today, customers who depend on train and bus connections still observe inconsistencies. It is sufficient to read the report prepared by the User Committee to find out. So it takes two things. Firstly, a common overall political vision of mobility. Since the regionalisation of a number of departments since 1980, there has been no strong consultation to define it among the actors. I don't throw the stone at anyone. That's a fact. Secondly, in order to do this, it is necessary to create a genuine platform of intermodality where all transport companies speak and work together at the operational level. That is why my predecessor decided to relaunch the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility (CEMM) and to create the platform for intermodality on the basis of this committee. It is intended to work in particular on the definition of the power lines of the transport plans 2017 and 2030 but also to facilitate the emergence of a long-term vision of intermodal and sustainable mobility of the country whose railways form the backbone of the public transport system. This will enable all actors to cooperate on effective mobility solutions and efficient public transport, both complementary and responsive to society's needs. For your information, the first meeting of the ECMM was held on 26 February. At this first working meeting, the Ministers for Mobility decided to opt for a simple mode of operation of the intermodality platform. The subjects related to this issue will be discussed at technical level within the framework of the said platform in order to be able to progress on the basis of concrete topics such as tariff integration, intermodality bus-tram-metro-train, intermodality train-vélo or the problem of car parks with a view to promoting chain mobility. A second meeting of the ECMM was held on 10 June. As a first step, we are focusing on the RER Steering Committee and the 2017 Transport Plan, since the federal government has also decided to open consultation and negotiation in the Regions, so that we can move forward on these issues. As far as the RER Steering Committee is concerned, my objective remains to finalize all the work foreseen in the Convention of April 2003. I will not recall my intervention in the presentation of the policy note. All avenues for technical-financial solutions are explored within this committee in order to ensure the sustainability of the financing of the four-track implementation of lines 124 and 161. And I would point out that on line 50A (in the Flemish Region), the work is not completed and will take a number of years to complete. Also, better use of other stations in Brussels and, for example, of the new Josaphat tunnel or of a new SNCB transport plan, will contribute to better mobility to the capital where the S offer will also be strengthened. Finally, regarding the long-term vision of intermodal and sustainable mobility in the country, the first working meetings will take place in the coming weeks in the presence of the mentioned mobility actors (Regions and Federal). It is essential that the latter be involved and consulted on the basis of their expertise. With regard to your second question, as indicated in the report which is published on the administration's website, the Rail4Brussels study highlights four key actions. First, demystify saturation. The study showed that the Nord-Midi junction has significant capacity reserves if we develop a global vision for its optimization and also the use of new technologies. Secondly, optimisation through specialization. With the exception of greater train automation, tracks can be operated more efficiently through a specialisation of pertuis depending on the type of traffic. Third, to evolve the business model to improve its performance and value the heavy investments. It is necessary to increase the attractiveness of the railway to travel to the periphery from Brussels, to further fill trains outside peak hours and to better distribute the offer on Brussels territory in order to enhance its complementarity with the STIB and De Lijn network. Fourthly, to act on demand for travel and not just on supply and better anticipate the need for a new infrastructure in the long term. I can assure you of the commitment of each of the actors, the Regions and the Federal State, particularly during the last meeting of the ECMM. We have also decided to set up two or three technical working groups which will have to submit reports to us in a relatively short period of time in order to try to implement measures between the various levels of government concerned which will be able to provide some or all of the answers to real problems. I am thinking in particular of the single ticket office, the single ticket, the opening up of information between transport companies and between transport companies and SNCB. One realizes that, in Brussels, for example, very few passengers use the train for intramural Brussels travel, whereas, often, it is an excellent alternative both in terms of pricing and in terms of journey times when you want to cross Brussels from one side to another. This is due to the fact that there is no integration of a vision of a complementary public transport policy that can provide solutions, from regional public transport to the railway and vice versa. We are working together to find solutions that will allow users to have better information through which they will realize an existing offer for which they are not captive today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u71	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. I invite him to continue to rely on the constructive and indispensable cooperation of the Regions. I don't think we'll be able to do that without it. I commend the Minister's openness and willingness to work together. We will follow this file very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u72	Minister, the management of SNCB has just transmitted a new Memorandum of Social Agreement 2016-2018. Contrary to what was proposed in September 2015, the company is now committed to a minimum number of staff at the end of the protocol. Indeed, the management of the public company guarantees a total of 31,765 employees, including 19,128 railway workers at SNCB and 11,009 workers for Infrabel. As of 1 January 2016, the management of the SNCB group shows a total of 34,058 workers, including 20,336 SNCB employees and 11,723 workers for Infrabel. It is therefore a net abolition of 2,293 posts between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2018. Minister, how many positions will be removed or not replaced in 2016? How do you expect to achieve 2,293 job losses by December 31, 2018? How many voluntary departures are envisaged? Finally, what functions will be more affected by job losses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u73	Mr Devin, I'll be very short. I refer you to an answer that has already been given to some of your colleagues, including Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Calomne. I will give you the answers to the questions that have been asked on the same subject and I hope you will find in these answers all the relatively detailed elements. I have three pages of answers. These are answers to questions of 16 March. I can give them to you and you will come back to me if you wish. A question was communicated on 16 March. She's bearing number 9220.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u74	Who answered that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u75	It wasn't me, necessarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u76	Minister, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u77	I don't have anything else to bring you. I can give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u78	March 16 is a date I really care about. But I would point out in my reply that I would like to appeal to Minister Bellot. Sometimes I would like to ask the same questions that I asked Mrs Galant. If I welcome Mr Bellot's tone, open-mindedness and willingness to move forward in a concerted manner, I will still allow myself to ask him questions, even if Mrs Galant has already answered them at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u79	The Minister may also refer to previous answers, even though they were not his.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u80	Mr President, Minister, we recently learned that workers at the SNCB central depot in Gentbrugge were exposed to a highly toxic product during their working hours. The blood results of several workers show that they have been exposed to chromium trioxide, a product that has proven to be harmful in the long term. Exposure to this toxic product would have occurred during the sanding of the paint of an old MR75 type train model. In this regard, Minister, I have a few questions for you. How many workers were exposed to chromium trioxide during their working hours? To what degree of gravity? Have the paint sanding activities of the MR75 trains been suspended or relocated? If these are still in progress, has SNCB ensured that other workers are not exposed to this product? If so, how? How long have workers worked on this contaminated material? What measures are envisaged by SNCB to ensure that the material to be treated no longer releases this toxic product?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u81	Mr Devin, I refer to an answer which was given on 2 March to your question No 9759 and to the attached questions by Mrs Karin Temmerman, MM. Stefaan Van Hecke and Marco Van Hees. I have no other information that has been communicated to me by the railway company. If I had had anything other than those provided to me, I would have given you some, but I have no other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u82	Is the minister expecting new elements or was the investigation already closed at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u83	I was told that there were no new elements to communicate to me. So I can't give you any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u84	If the minister is still waiting for other elements, I would like him to be able to communicate them to us in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u85	Minister, a study conducted by the British Institute of Economic Affairs has recently shown that signal lights are poorly adapted, if not for some, unnecessary and counterproductive. Indeed, a car stopping at a traffic light is costly to the economy and produces more polluting emissions. Touring responded to this study by stating that it is a mobility and environmental problem that is not evolving. Carbon emissions would increase by 28% due to fires. In addition, Touring denounces the fact that signal lights are almost never adapted to actual traffic conditions. In addition, there is a lack of overall management, as some fires are managed by the Regions, while others are managed by the municipalities. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. Is such a study possible in Belgium? What alternative mechanism could be proposed to address the problems caused by signal lights? Is it possible to assign their management to a single body? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u86	Mr Devin, there are studies that show that proper adjustment of signal lights would help to smooth traffic and reduce the emission volume of vehicles. When you look at Brussels – and I don't throw the stone at you, because the same thing exists everywhere – you realize the difficulties that this can represent. The question is whether a study on this subject should be initiated or whether a signal light is properly placed and synchronized, whether this is a matter of regional or municipal appreciation depending on local circumstances, traffic flow and road safety. I therefore invite the honourable Member to speak to the regional ministers responsible for infrastructure for their views on this matter. This is a subject that we could discuss at the ECMM (Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility) to see if an analysis applied to the entire territory would be interesting. If so, we will be able to take this initiative with the agreement of the members of the ECMM.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u87	Mr Minister, you mentioned the example of Brussels at the beginning of your answer. In other cities in the country, and even in smaller communities, we are faced with such concerns. We've seen roundabouts bloom all over the place. I will invite you to put this issue on the agenda of a forthcoming Council of Ministers in relation to road safety. This problem does not arise out of nowhere. Even yesterday, I was in a meeting with the relevant regional services. I think this is of great interest to the various mayors and municipal officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u88	Mr. Chair, Minister, SNCB recently launched the Driver Only Operation (DOO) project, for which working groups are to examine the feasibility of the SNCB's project to develop unaccompanied trains. Currently, SNCB estimates that 20% of trains could operate without an attendant. As far as equipment is concerned, Desiro trains, used in particular for the future RER, could be suitable for this non-accompanied train project. Nevertheless, the railway infrastructure will have to be reviewed. In fact, it will be necessary to climb the wharfs and to shed more light on them. Minister, who are the people who make up these working groups? Are these individuals internal members of the SNCB structure? Are experts also part of these working groups? What are the components analysed by the working groups? How long must they submit the results of their research? Will they be unveiled in the Infrastructure Commission or only to the management of SNCB? If possible, can you reveal to us the already known elements of this one-man principle because?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u89	Mr Devin, the study is still not closed. On 17 February, on the occasion of questions from Mr. Van Hees and yourself, it was answered that a study was under way. To date, it has not been closed. So I have no more elements to give you. When the study is completed, it will first be validated and I will have no worries to inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u90	Minister, thank you. I will keep an eye on the subject. I'll ask you again, even if you tell me that you still don't have a new element.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u91	Minister, in the spring of 2015, the federal government and the management of SNCB suspended two lines of the Thalys in Belgium by common agreement: the line linking Liège to Paris along the Walloon dorsal (serving Namur, Mons and Charleroi) and a Flemish line linking Brussels to Ostend via Ghent. The reason given for this suspension was, in particular, the work of securing and planning the tracks making the Thalys Walloon inoperative for several months. Minister, what about the situation? Can you tell us more? Now that the development and security work has come to an end, will SNCB restart the Thalys Walloon? If so, will it be a definitive restoration of this line? If SNCB intends to restore the Thalys Wallon, when will it be put back into service? What stations will be served and the schedules of the first and last trains on weekdays and weekends? What will be the frequency of Thalys Wallon on weekdays and weekends? Minister, I can tell you that I have already asked this question on several occasions and that I intend to ask it again as long as this Thalys Wallon that was announced to us temporarily suspended will not be put back into service. But I know your conviction in this matter through the comments you have made and the writings that have been published on this subject. I therefore have no doubt that we are of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u92	Mr Devin, I would like to point out that following the announced stop, at the end of March 2015, of the Thalys trains due to the commissioning of the ERTMS between Auvelais and Namur, my predecessor had all alternatives to the current high-speed services examined directly. This study showed the very low occupancy of the two ridges and the very high cost to the taxpayer. For several months, discussions have been taking place on various structural tracks. These various railway offers are still under consideration and will be defined, in particular, in future management contracts. Among these tracks, the reopening of the Walloon dorsal and a priority, however, taking into account the transformation of Thalys international into a subsidiary and the low availability of Thalys trains due to their maintenance. I hope that a clear decision will be taken in the coming weeks in order to give myself the possibility of a new offer as early as 2017. This solution will have to take into account the demands of mobility players, the investment needs in the Belgian railways defined in partnership with the Regions, which will have to be involved in respect of what is happening on both sides of the border between Flanders and Wallonia. The Regions will be obliged to make choices, to which they will be associated, because what will be invested at this level, in terms of exploitation, will not be in other choices that the Regions wish to make. What I'm telling you is important. The real needs of SNCB customers and the cost of the various alternatives will have to be taken into account, in the context of respect for the involvement of the Regions in view of the space where the choices are made. Each euro must be reflected and invested in order to carry out SNCB's missions oriented towards a maximum offer in the interests of the greatest number of people. I have no other information to share with you, but in any case, all scenarios will be put on the table. When choosing, the Regions will, of course, be involved through existing investments and other tools, which are tools to support SNCB's decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u93	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. I agree with you. You also know the disparity in funding and investments on either side of the linguistic border. I am not talking about services in Belgium compared to other countries. We must have the same consideration, sometimes weighted in relation to this disparity in investment and the same understanding of colossal investments on the one hand, as well as taking into account the strong will of one of the regions of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u94	I am in compliance with Rule 40/60, a cross-cutting, multi-annual rule, which has been accepted by all the political families represented here since it was established in the 1990s. I want to be the true guarantor in terms of investment and I think that has never been contested. There are formulas. An open and transparent working group will look at possible multi-annual modulation. But if the groups want it, I fully subscribe to this fidelity to agreements taken in illo tempore I was not even associated with it, nor with you, but I want to share this thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u95	I see that the minister operates his federal moult and takes the full dimension of his ministerial responsibility, to the great smile of my colleague from the N-VA. You have made other comments in another chamber, but you are now the minister of the federal government. As for what I had highlighted in the presentation of the general policy note, I believe since then that you have had to understand what was said at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u96	Mr Minister, in March 2015, my colleague Geerts asked a written question to your predecessor, Mrs Galant, on the direct train link from Haacht to Brussels. She then replied that there is a constant evaluation of train connections and that no structural changes are planned for 2017. I assume that means the new timetable 2017. Despite the fact that Mrs Galant listed a number of travel times that should prove that the situation is not so bad, the current situation is perceived by the inhabitants of Haacht and the surrounding municipalities as uncomfortable, and I still express myself mildly. Particularly many people from the Haacht region work in Brussels. By car this is one of the busiest routes in the country. Your predecessor has already indicated how long this journey takes by bus, with travelling hours of one hour for a distance of about 25 km. Twice a clock-resistant direct train connection during peak hours is actually the least one can expect, especially since this has always been the case in the past. There was a clock-proof connection that was used very intensively, but that was simply abolished the last time. Since then, a lot of people from the region are taking the car back to Brussels, which cannot be the intention. My questions are as follows. What are the findings in the constant evaluation of this train connection? Can I understand that this situation is being reviewed in the 2017 transport plan or is there perhaps a possibility to adjust earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u97	SNCB continuously evaluates its offer. She follows the punctuality and occupation of her trains. On the basis of sales figures, it follows the flow of passengers. A comparison of 2015 sales figures with 2014 shows that the number of ticket holders and customers travelling with notes between Haacht and Brussels is fairly stable. The follow-up of the occupation figures already led to the strengthening of a number of trains. There were also more seats offered after the implementation of the transport plan in December 2014. In response to the written question of March 2015 to David Geerts, it was replied that no structural changes are planned for 2017. This means the timetable starting from December 2017. However, the available capacity in the north-south link will not exceed today in December 2017. The introduction of additional fixed clock connections to Brussels is therefore not planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think this is an absurdity. More and more people are coming to live in that region. One had a clock-resistant direct connection that was used very intensively. They drop them, so there is less service in the region and people drive back by car. I don't think this is wise. I had understood from the reply to Mr Geerts' written question that it would at least be reconsidered for the new timetable in 2017. Now you're saying this isn't gonna happen. If this is not even reviewed, I do not even say re-import, then I will draw my conclusions, Minister. I will inform you in a moment in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u99	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 11488 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 11496 was postponed. Questions Nos 11563 and 11564 by Mrs Fonck are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u100	Mr Minister, it is no coincidence that today three Members of Parliament, with different colours, but from the same region, have a question about the route Leuven Straight ahead. Your predecessor, Minister Galant, had ordered Belgocontrol to cancel the route in June 2015. There were social disturbances at the time and the deletion was delayed. Meanwhile, something else has happened. The Court of First Instance annulled the 2015 ruling. Leuven Straight ahead should therefore no longer be removed from the court. Leuven Straight ahead is a flight route like all other routes. It is therefore the Belgian government that can decide and decide. The periodic penalty payments have expired, but in the meantime several municipalities in our region, such as Haacht, Aarschot, Holsbeek and Rotselaar, have appealed against that ruling. Of course, Minister, I am concerned about the noise pollution that the families affected by that route experience every day. The nuisance is very serious, hence my very simple but clear question: what decision will you make? Will you ask Belgocontrol services to cancel the route, following what your predecessor intended? If not, what do you intend to do about this unreasonable nuisance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u101	Minister, a few weeks ago, in your first Question Time, I asked you a question about Leuven Straight ahead. A number of your answers surprised me very much at that time. In connection with the evaluation published by Belgocontrol on 25 June, you said, among other things, that the environment and noise insulation are not part of the Belgocontrol competence framework. Belgocontrol's expertise is limited to the operational aspects of air traffic control. In order to preserve the objectivity of the debates, it is appropriate not to mix. Minister, that is precisely what Minister Galant has asked for in order to comply with the agreement in the government agreement that the route should be evaluated! It was for that. Now that the evaluation is apparently negative, you say that the evaluation does not matter. You also stated that the analysis of the routes showed that most aircraft using Leuven Straight ahead are at more than 6 000 feet, when flying over the complaining municipalities, and that no relevant noise is measured at that altitude. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, that's obviously untrue. The measuring station in Tildonk, in Haacht, clearly proves that the rising aircraft make 5 dB more noise than the falling aircraft. At that time, these aircraft are absolutely not at 6,000 feet. Moreover, the replies of the airport ombudsdienst to the complaints are always given the level. Often this height is not even 4 000 feet. So what you said at the time is not correct at all. The route Leuven Straight through caused more noise due to the rising planes. She makes sure that the rest days, which used to be in the region, are gone. We also swallow the decline and rising traffic. Do you know that this route increases the number of kilometres in horizontal sections by more than 50 000 km per year? Most of them are above the heads of those complaining citizens. You can't be wrong about that. Mr Minister, either you have been or were very ill informed, I am giving you the benefit of the doubt about your statements a few weeks ago, or you are showing manifest unwillingness to face reality. I'd rather not take the latter for a while. I would therefore ask you to look again at the dossier. My questions are as follows. Firstly, do you consider the entire evaluation of Leuven's Belgocontrol Straight ahead, which was requested by your predecessor and which relates to the nuisance of Leuven Straight ahead, whether or not? Secondly, does the airport's ombud service record, in the case of Leuven-related complaints, whether or not flights are much lower than the 6 000 feet you quote? Thirdly, what further steps are you taking with regard to Leuven Straight ahead, before the flight law comes into effect at the end of 2016, which I understood from the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u102	Mr Vandenput, I assume you are asking your two questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u103	Mr Minister, I have two questions relating to Leuven Straight ahead and about the aviation law in general. Mrs. Dedry has already outlined the whole situation. I'm not gonna repeat that. The last court has said that Leuven is directly by decision of the government and that that decision should not necessarily be cancelled. Mrs Galant had instructed Belgocontrol to have Leuven removed straight ahead, on the basis of the court's previous ruling. Belgocontrol was also working on that. My specific question is whether this instruction is still active or abolished? If it is still active, when will Belgocontrol implement the change? If she is no longer active, what will you do with the report on Leuven Straightway made by Belgocontrol? How will you involve the municipalities concerned to the east of the airport in order to arrive at a structural solution within the framework of the aviation law that is being drafted? My second question concerns the air routes themselves and their modification. Minister, the government agreement states that there will be a law on routes. The literal text is well known to you, so I will not read it. Your predecessor, Mrs Galant, had started visiting the mayors and a number of action committees. She's been with me, too, and I found it very useful to give local input. Meanwhile, municipalities and action committees have also gone to courts to get them right. Some of them have also been proved right, others are still appealing. In addition, there are the regions that suffer from the well-known nimby syndrome and dare to put it on paper. Recently there was also the European regulation No 598/2014 which was removed from under the dust and it applies from the day before yesterday or yesterday. This regulation has been miscommunicated by action committees and also by a number of mayors from the Brussels border. At present there is a complete chaos in this dossier and as long as it continues to be unclear, this dossier will become more difficult and more difficult to resolve. It is time to speak clearly and act in accordance with the coalition agreement. In this connection, I have a few questions for you. First of all, what is your vision to come up with a flying law that contains all the components mentioned in the coalition agreement? Secondly, what method will you use to come to that flight law? Will you also consult the basics and take into account their concerns? Thirdly, what timetable do you intend to submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers and ultimately submit it to Parliament? Fourthly, what factors are slowing down the cooperation agreement on noise standards today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u104	Mr President, Minister, I join the various inquiries concerning the take-off procedure for the 07 rechtdoor. I would first like to point out, because this was not done, that it was in 2004 that Bert Anciaux introduced this notion of the dispersion of the aircraft's trajectories and that he imposed, at night, a mandatory use of Runway 07 for take-offs three nights a week between 03:00 and 06:00 in the morning. It was he, too, who had modified all take-off procedures 07 and created the challenge by concentrating the trajectories around the Huldenberg beacon. In 2008, there was a broad consensus in favour of deconcentrating the trajectory of the overflights around the Huldenberg beacon and creating a 07 rechtdoor take-off procedure. This procedure has been studied for three years and is, as such, the best prepared and most effective procedure by Belgocontrol. In 2013, under the previous legislature, the commissioning of this road 07 rechtdoor was validated by all government partners. Now, and it's really curious, everyone is calling for an equitable distribution of aircraft trajectories across all areas, but no one accepts them. Everyone tends to want to concentrate everything around the Huldenberg beacon, which, as a result, will become an aerial highway with total concentration. I would also like to point out that the whole problem of take-off 07 is due to a lack of strict application of wind standards, and that the solution to take-off 07 must not be in a redefinition of the air corridor but in a clarification of wind standards with a view to maximum stabilization of the preferential plan of use of runway 25 for take-off and landing. The better the wind standards will be applied, the less alternative non-preferential routes 01 and 07 will be used. I think it's very clear. The Belgian State must also strictly abide by the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 17 March 2005, which prohibits excessive, unlawful and abusive use of Runway 01 at landing. The old procedure 07 with low and short turns before Leuven generated unbearable nuisances for the communes of Bertem, Neerijse, Everberg, Huldenberg and the east of the Walloon Brabant. The 07 rechtdoor procedure put into operation since March 2014 has the merit of offering a little calm and tranquillity to municipalities already heavily overflew. The residents beyond Leuven cannot claim that landings on Runway 25 would disturb them while the aircraft are still more than 5,000 feet away when they fly over this area. Secondly, at the legal level, I should not recall that the Belgian State was sentenced by default in the first judgement in May 2015. Secondly, a new judgment of 6 April 2016 nullifies the first judgment, confirms that no public consultation or notice of investigation is necessary for aeronautical procedures and reinforces the use of the 07 rechtdoor procedure. Minister, what are you going to do to comply with the only final judgment that creates legal obligations, that of April 6, 2016? Do you intend to extend the NOTAM notices that maintain both the 07 rechtdoor procedures (with the aeronautical code Juliet) and the old 07 short turn procedures (with the aeronautical code Yankee), as until the Court of Appeal has ruled, it is appropriate to maintain the presence of the two different take-off procedures? How do you intend to significantly reduce the misuse of Runway 07 at take-off, explained by too much use of Runway 01 at landing and clearly caused by a lack of clarity in the principles taken into account by Belgocontrol in the selection of runways and the calculation of wind standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u105	Mr President, in the judgment of May 2015, the Brussels Court of First Instance decided, in the context of a summary procedure, that the departure routes from the runways 07 Right and 07 Left to the southeast, as used since 6 March 2014, should be abolished. Following that judgment, the Minister of Mobility instructed Belgocontrol to return to the old routes by 31 March 2016, taking into account the time required for the different stages of the amendment of a legal procedure. As a result of a collective action at Belgocontrol, the change of the departure routes had to be postponed by several weeks. In the meantime, the original request for the abolition of those routes was rejected as unfounded in a judgment delivered on 6 April 2016 by the President of the Court of First Instance in Brussels. That judgment destroys the default judgment of May 2015 ordering the return to the routes that existed before 6 March 2014. As a result of the last decision, the strike of the Leuven route has been lifted straight ahead and can be used entirely legally. From the point of view of the safety of air navigation, the frequent changes are indeed not desirable. In the immediate future, the decision of the President of the Court of First Instance will allow me to give the instruction to continue using the existing Leuven Straightway. However, I would like to agree with the government agreement which states that the flight route concerned will be evaluated and, if necessary, amended. However, the operational analysis of the routes on the basis of a simulation test showed that most aircraft using the flight route in question are at a height which is generally considered not to belong to the air layer measured for noise. The NDAP 1 system, an optimized take-off profile that will soon be introduced, will also ensure that aircraft rise even faster and reach a level as quickly as possible with a significant reduction in ground noise. An analysis has been carried out on the safety and capacity aspects currently being examined by my services. Meetings with associations of local residents will take place shortly to try to find a satisfactory solution. In May 2015, the Brussels Court of First Instance ruled in an interim proceedings that departure routes should be abolished, etc. I've already answered you about that. However, collective actions within Belgocontrol delayed the modification of the starting routes. In the meantime, the initial requests for the removal of these roads were declared unfounded by the Dutch-speaking court's judgement. You know what's next. Caution would like the case to acquire the force of res judicata before deciding on the follow-up to this new judgment. It is also prudent to avoid multiple changes in the same flight procedures that are not desirable from the point of view of air navigation safety. The services are currently preparing a clarification of wind standards in order to integrate them into our current regulatory framework. This clarification will set the limits that Belgocontrol must respect in the use of non-preferential tracks, as well as the process of changing the tracks in use. In response to a previous question, I indicated that a working group had been set up at my initiative, bringing together the firm, DGTA and Belgocontrol, to analyse all the problems of wind standards and monitoring their compliance. This method of work, which I recalled above, will help to ensure a more systematic and transparent management, thus better understood by residents, and also to verify violations of the preferential system of wind standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u106	Mr Minister, I am actually surprised at your answer, because it is a repeat of what you have said. I just heard that answer to other questions. You say you will meet the community committees or the action committees, but so has your predecessor. What do you think is the added value of a new meeting? What difference will that make? That's a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u107	Colleague, the only positive element I have heard in the Minister's reply is precisely that he is making the effort to listen to the people again. Minister, you have given the same answer as you did last time. You say those planes don't fly at a height that causes noise. I can and will give you the sound overruns that are measured in measuring point in Tildonk. So I will put a question again and add all the noise overruns. Then you will have to admit that the aircraft are at a level that causes noise. What you're saying is wrong! On the one hand, you say that you will respect the coalition agreement and that the route will be evaluated. On the other hand, you are talking about a new system that may be in place, which will increase these aircraft even faster. I wonder what it'll be. I will put another question to you, but with all the results of the measurement point in Tildonk. You will find that there is a real problem. There is a problem of far too low flying planes, which make far too much noise, much more than is allowed or should normally be allowed. In addition, there are many more aircraft and the route west of Leuven causes absolutely no noise pollution anymore. We are not asking for the old routes to be re-entered. What we are asking for is a fair distribution. We have always lived in that region with the airport, which brings employment and prosperity, so we are for the airport. All we want is for everyone to do their part, and that is clearly not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer on Leuven Straight ahead. I would like to say to the members of the committee who are quite adamant, which shows their commitment, that I, as an aircraft engineer, also appreciate this dossier. This is primarily about a safety dossier: safety for the people on the ground, but also safety for the people on the plane. After all, a plane must take off and land against the wind. It is the natural elements that determine this and there is therefore a reason for the location of the jobs. Secondly, it is a distribution dossier. Taking into account the natural elements, there must also be a fair distribution, but this will not be in a 360° configuration. Thirdly, it is a sound file. We must not reverse that order by, for example, starting with the sound file and putting safety in third place. No, first comes the safety file, followed by the distribution file and then the audio file. Mr. Secretary, I didn't really understand the timing. I can only hope that the government and Parliament will be able to carry out this year. You know that it will take six to nine months for new routes to be implemented. In 2018, there will be local elections and it could be that if we are delayed, this file will be used, or abused, in the municipal elections. I would therefore encourage you to do this quickly, so that this dossier is out of hand before the 2018 elections, so that we can properly inform people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u109	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm rather satisfied with this one when you say you're going to clarify the wind standards. This seems essential to me and will allow us to return to the so-called preferential roads, which are also part of the government agreement. I think the residents need to meet you. Not everyone has met with the previous minister in charge of this matter. I think it is good to put the associations in front of their responsibilities as well. We know that the airport is close to Brussels, Walloon Brabant and Flemish Brabant. There's nothing to do, the nuisances are there. We need a fair distribution. Everyone has to be reasonable. Getting involved in legal proceedings against each other obviously does nothing, instead serves only to confuse the case and leads to no solutions. Like my colleague, I ask you to do this quickly so that we can move forward and go to the locals to explain the situation. Nevertheless, I agree with Mrs Jiroflé's view on noise. In my region, we suffer, some nights, the nuisances of aircraft which fly relatively low and which are extremely noisy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u110	Mrs. Dedry, the Action Committees have asked for a meeting of their own. It's very difficult, because there are two opposing verdicts. It is therefore particularly difficult to find a solution. I will continue to follow this problem step by step, but the question is very complex and a quick solution is not possible. It is not possible to ask me for a quick solution. I want to meet everyone. I want to ensure transparency. I want everyone to be informed of the outline of the issues and to set a method that is legible and to find a fair solution. The difference between a fair and a balanced solution is that a fair and just solution is balanced. We all know the expression: "We don't want it to be above home." I have also heard a lot of officials from all political parties say that we must be reasonable. They're trying to find that reasonable solution. Even in riparian associations, reasonable people want to understand. I should not be asked to resolve in a month a problem which has lasted fifteen years and for which a solution is sought. We are in a process of such complexity. I've been confronted in my professional life with this kind of thing. Perhaps my Cartesian spirit as an engineer taught me one thing: to be faced with a very complex question requires first to identify the important elements and to work on each of them. We need to start from a complex question and multiply it into a series of simpler questions to answer. It is obvious that tomorrow there will still be noise and planes. The whole thing is to look for the solution that is legible, transparent and that everyone can understand it. Everyone must be able to contribute their share of the effort in the situation. I can't tell you more. This is the approach that I want to take in cooperation and coordination with all the actors, and it will not be easy at all. Others broke their teeth on it. I really want to work in a spirit of cooperation. I want to put myself above the fray. I will try to bring my experience and put myself above political divisions and positions. This is how a solution can be found. A number of things can be overtaken, each assuming its role at its own level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u111	Minister, équitable and équilibre, that is what we want. I'm glad to hear you're really looking for a carried answer. We want to cooperate fully on this. However, at the moment, safe routes that used to be used in a safe way are no longer used and a large part is brought together in the Leuven Straight ahead route. This is considered particularly unfair by the environment. When I hear the words of your last speech, you will agree with me that this is an injustice that must be rectified. We really want to think about how this should be done. For us not everything from the route Leuven Straight ahead. But that certain routes, which were safe and previously uncontested, are no longer used because everything is concentrated on one job, which is perceived as very unjust.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Foret's 11634 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u113	Mr Minister, I have heard here and there that the request for construction of the Mechelen station, which had been submitted for more than a year, has still not been made at the request of your predecessor. I assume it was a question from the government. It would not have a view of the investment programme. Meanwhile, people are busy working on the bypass, the underground car park and the car tangent. But apparently there's no construction application. Since I formally want confirmation of that, I ask you these questions. How much are the cost reduction measures for the Mechelen station compared to the original budget? Apparently, a new plan has been worked out by SNCB. What's saved? How does the further decision-making process proceed in order to submit an urban planning permit? Do the different partners of the cooperation agreement Stationsproject agree on the adjustments? What will be the consequences of late submission of the building application for the station for the other project components, in particular the use of the parking lot, the car-tangent and the railway bypass?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u114	SNCB informs me that the total cost-saving measures for the Mechelen station are estimated at EUR 11.8 million, including EUR 11.3 million for the station and EUR 0.5 million for the completion of the parking lot. The reduced construction costs of the station amount to 97.8 million euros. This means a saving of 10.4 %. The reduced cost of finishing the parking is 12 million euros. This represents a saving of 4%. The adjustments were made in different ways. The most important ones are the following. Firstly, there is the reduction of the total station by digging less out on the Antwerp side and the Brussels side. Secondly, other material is chosen for the light holes in the roof and the facades. Thirdly, the bicycle sheds are concentrated in one place, being the square at level. Fourthly, different finishes and materials are replaced by alternatives that are equally maintenance-friendly but cheaper in construction. Fifth, there are several minor adjustments. In all adjustments, the customer's interest has been borne in mind. The accessibility of the platforms or the comfort for the traveller or the number of bicycle or car parking spaces was not affected. The partners of the cooperation agreement will be fully informed by SNCB about the amended drafts. Special attention is paid to the city of Mechelen, without forgetting the other parties. The project partners, including Infrabel, will assess the impact of the changes on their perimeter. After approval by the project partners, SNCB may decide to submit the urban permit. SNCB plans to submit the application in August-September 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u116	Mr President, Minister, on November 15, 2014, a citizen action was organised at Marbehan station to denounce the reduction in the opening hours of the window and the waiting room. The petition launched at the time had received more than 1,600 signatures. On 1 March 2015, SNCB closed the ticket offices at Melreux-Hotton and Bomal stations. In May of the same year, the SNCB announced the closure of 33 shops in Wallonia, including 3 in the province of Luxembourg: Vielsalm, Gouvy and Bertrix. On 1 October 2015, SNCB effectively closed the ticket office at Vielsalm station. In Virton, one of the shopkeepers has reached retirement age and will not be replaced. As a result, the station's opening hours were reduced on 1 March. On 29 January, a first citizen action was organised to denounce the further deterioration of the service to travellers. On 27 February, some 250 citizens took part in a support march in favour of the station. On the petition side, more than 1,600 signatures have been collected. Mr Minister, what long-term vision does SNCB have of the network of stations in the province of Luxembourg? In other words, what stations does it see in the Luxembourg rail landscape? As the closure of the Bertrix and Gouvy counters has been postponed for security reasons, when should this be expected? For each of the above stations, what durable solution has been found to allow travellers to continue to shelter and have access to sanitary facilities? With regard to the Virton station, which is not equipped with a track crossing, when will the preventive patrols in Securail, announced by your predecessor to address certain security concerns, take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u117	Mrs Caprasse, the province of Luxembourg still lists seven outlets: Arlon, Marbehan, Libramont, Marloie, Virton, Bertrix and Gouvy. SNCB does not foresee any further closure until the end of 2020. With regard to the gouvy and Bertrix windows, no closing date has yet been proposed or set. As a reminder, over the years, SNCB has seen a significant decrease in the sale of tickets to counters in favour of other distribution channels such as automatons, homeprint printing and mobile applications. As a result, investments have been made in these new sales channels and benefit both urban and rural customers. This usual change in the way in which customers purchase transport tickets results in an increase in the average time of inactivity of shopkeepers, sometimes exceeding 80%. Therefore, in the interests of efficiency, SNCB has chosen to allocate human resources where they are most useful and has decided, through its Board of Directors, to proceed with the gradual closure of the 33 windows mentioned. When a railway station's window is closed, SNCB contacts the local authorities to reach an agreement that is acceptable to the municipality, its customers and itself. The aim is to allow the municipality to enjoy the empty building, while maintaining customer services such as an open and heated waiting room, where appropriate, toilets and facilities management for bicycles and cars. In exchange, SNCB offers an emphyteotic lease whose cannon takes into account these services and the destination of the property. If an agreement is not reached, the private sector is competitive and customer services are also negotiated. In the cases mentioned in the province of Luxembourg, various contacts have already been made with the municipalities concerned and I am told that the negotiations are progressing. With regard to the crossing of the tracks at Virton station, I share your safety concerns. As the station does not have a track corridor, customers cross the tracks at the station level, but only under the supervision of the station staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u118	Minister, thank you for these different answers. Unfortunately, I am not from the province of Luxembourg and I may find it difficult to understand the difficulty of the local inhabitants. If there have been petitions, have they received a concrete response? You say that there has been a decrease in the activity at the counters due to another securities sales system, etc. Are the inhabitants briefed at this level? It is important that communication with aggrieved people be good. Could I ask you to handle this in the future? For the rest, I will see with my interlocutors in the province of Luxembourg how things will improve or deteriorate, or how they are lived.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u119	Questions No 11664, No 11669 and No 11848 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux are postponed. Question No 11670 by Mr Gilles Foret is transformed into a written question. Question No 11684 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u120	Mr President, Minister, there is currently a problem with the certification of CFL equipment (Luxembourg railways) for the Athus-Rodange links with the introduction of alternative buses. The Luxembourg railways have equipped their trainsets with the ETCS system. To this end, they submitted a dossier to the Belgian security administration for approval on the SNCB network. This certification problem has been going on for almost three months now. The problem now extends to trainsets 2200 that are used between Virton and Rodange. This will mean that CFL trains currently operating between Virton and Luxembourg (via Rodange) are not expected to operate since 2 June 2016, for an indefinite period, pending approval on the Belgian ETCS network, which was supposed to be a European system, but which seems to be to the liking of each network. Until then, it remains to be hoped that travellers will not desert line 165. Minister, have you been made aware of this licensing problem? If so, will alternative measures be put in place at SNCB level to ensure regular traffic on line 165?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u121	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to explain the context again, Mrs Caprasse has done it very well. I would just like to add that it was announced that this non-approval was temporary and that it had to be settled before 16 March, which is not the case. Minister, my questions are the same. What's the status? How do you explain such a delay? Have the CFLs submitted an application for approval to the Belgian administration? Are you aware of any brakes that would prevent this certification? I remember that there would indeed be brakes on the Belgian side. Is it to be feared that CFL trains will no longer be able to operate between Virton and Luxembourg from 2 June – my question having been filed before that date? Should we fear for the future of line 165? Let me turn to my second question. On several occasions, I have raised questions on this issue of rolling stock which cannot be used in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for reasons of approval. The problem also concerns Desiro trainsets. It has always been said that approval is about to be granted. However, this is still not the case. In my last question on this subject, I was told that "the date of approval will depend on the technical and commercial conditions to be submitted by the manufacturer. In any event, it appears unlikely to obtain an approval before 2018, stating that SNCB has therefore requested a derogation from the CFL in order to continue the traction of passenger trains using T13 locomotives equivalent to the MEMOR 2+". If the approval does not take place before 2018, the trains will be empty due to a lack of passengers. My colleagues have been asking the various ministers about this for many years! Minister, you are well aware of the subject matter and the cross-border issues related to it. Can you inform me of the current status of this file? What about the derogation requested by SNCB from CFLs? Are you aware of any brakes that would prevent this certification?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the approval of CFL equipment, I have indeed been informed of the situation by my Luxembourg colleague François Bausch and my colleague Willy Borsus. Mr.Jo Cornu also provided me with information in response to a letter sent to him on March 23, 2016. The SSICF did not receive the documents that would allow it to have a complete record for registration until February 23, 2016, which came from the CFLs. Under Article 77 of the Railway Code, the SSICF then has four months to make its decision. According to the CFLs and the SSICF, registration is expected to be in order at the end of June 2016, which corresponds to the statutory response time for the SSICF. It should be noted that, since February 23, 2016, the file has arrived and there have been a whole series of questions and clarifications that have been requested. The file didn't come in full. After 23 February 2016, several questions were asked again. The file was truly complete a month, a month and a half ago. This is the usual procedure and this is what the four months are for. According to CFL forecasts, registration is expected to be in order at the end of June 2016 and this is confirmed to me by the SSICF. This file is in no way related to the future of line 165. I want to make that clear. This dossier, for the SSICF part, was followed by my colleague Willy Borsus, who has the competence to supervise this body. Since June 6, 2016, CFLs no longer have sufficient trainsets without ETCS to operate the trains between Virton and Rodange and return. The service is therefore temporarily replaced by the buses to ensure the connection. SNCB is aware of the inconvenience caused to some to obtain a licence. It implemented a bus service in correspondence with the CFL trains in Rodange. Depending on the point of embarkation, it takes 5 to 20 minutes of additional journey time. Considering that no suitable railway equipment is available to ride between Virton and Rodange, this solution was the least penalizing. Secondly, with regard in particular to Mrs Poncelet's question on the approval of Desiro trainsets, SNCB informs me that it will request a derogation from the CFLs in the course of June 2017, so that it can circulate in MEMOR 2+ after September 2017. This will make it possible to circulate with the current material until the switchover of the catenary power supply in 25,000 V. This changeover is currently scheduled for September 2018. You understand the sequence. Not only are there ETCS signaling problems, but there is also the change in voltage change. Before switching, it is a "temporary" material and it is necessary to ensure the high level of security. I would like to tell you, and it is paradoxical, that ETCS is European Technic Control System. The ETCS file has become complex because of two elements, particularly at this location. First, it involves several infrastructures. SNCB equipment is in fact circulating on the Belgian, Luxembourg and French networks. The ground-to-board compatibility of traction equipment shall be demonstrated over all the infrastructures covered. It is coupled with the voltage shift on the Arlon-Luxembourg section, and there the ground-to-board compatibility must also be proven for traction equipment. I'll make a comment. Last year, the Luxembourg and French infrastructure managers issued national requirements and specificities that the equipment equipped with ETCS must comply with on their respective networks. This data enables manufacturers to develop a technical solution that will eventually enable ETCS to be activated on board. SNCB informs me that it is making every effort to ensure the movement of trains between Belgium and Luxembourg. The necessary measures are agreed with the CFLs, Alstom and Siemens manufacturers, the safety and interoperability services of the Belgian railways and the administration of the railways of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. A simple example: Luxembourg technology is based on three ground beacons; Belgian technology is based on five ground beacons. In concrete terms, when Belgian ETCS trains enter the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, when they recognise only three beacons instead of five, an automatic braking system will reduce the speed of trains to 20 km/h, i.e. visual driving. We must therefore be free from this norm. I'll close the parenthesis. We had a European Transport Council last week. We will see each other next week only to discuss the trans-European rail network. We're meeting in Rotterdam. Indeed, it is surprising that at a time when we are defining a very high European safety standard, we are not standardising a kind of European module, a black box to which everyone could connect. It looks like you can take the version of software 3, 2 or 5 or any other, but you have to break free from problems at the borders. We were seven European ministers asking for the Commission to deal with the matter very quickly, so that we can get rid of it. You need to know that, in order to solve a technical problem between two countries, two years are necessary, because this requires very complex technological concepts. We are really looking for a standardisation of border controls. In concrete terms, the ICs will pass very easily, but the Desiros will still have a period of floating.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u123	Mr. Minister, your clear explanations bear witness to your experience as an engineer. You say the registration will come into effect at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u125	Thank you for that confirmation. We will see if the measure will apply at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u126	Minister, thank you for these very clear technical explanations. You also announced our replies, since we could foresee, at European level, a specification which provides for our trains to be able to operate on foreign routes. The aim is to anticipate this complexity rather than solve it once the problem arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u127	We would like to see the same thing done for travellers in the transport of goods, for which axes have been defined so that there is only one solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u128	This means that we must anticipate. It is a pity that in the twenty-first century we are still looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u129	To illustrate my point, because I am trying to demonstrate pedagogy in this very technical dossier, the compatibility between the Belgian, French and Luxembourg ETCS requires that an interface be found, in the same way that one was created to make a Mac and a PC compatible, but what we are talking about right now is much more complicated than a computer problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u130	It is still worrying that we are still so far from a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u131	Every year, Minister, SNCB publishes a list of passengers arriving at the various Belgian stations. A distinction is made between weekdays and weekends, but no distinction is made between peak and valley hours and, for example, winter and summer months. I take the concrete example of Heist-op-den-Berg. I saw 1 700 passengers listed there each time, but when I received an invitation for an explanation of the transport plan, 2 450 subscriptions were listed in the municipality. There is a second station, but it seems illogical to me that all those departing passengers would get there. I have the following questions. How do travellers' accommodations come about? Is that through a sample or based on ticket sales? Is new technologies used or is passengers still counted manually? Is there anyone who walks through the train sets to count and then makes an extrapolation? Is there a difference in way of counting in 2016 compared to 2006? How many times are the traveler's accommodations carried out? Are passenger accommodations carried out both in summer and winter periods? Has SNCB already developed a vision to achieve a more accurate picture in order to better map, predict and manage passenger flows? I am thinking, of course, of modern technologies, such as apps and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u132	Mr Minister, I would like to join in on this. My question is mainly about modern ways of counting travellers. Too much is happening today by filling out papers by train guides or by counters on the platform. Much more modern technologies are possible With a view to open data policy, there are also many challenges with regard to the dissemination and sharing of the data collected. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. How exactly are passenger numbers counted? How are the figures published? How do travellers' accommodations take place during the rest of the year, outside of October? Does SNCB intend to release more information on the number of passengers, both in general and to specific organisations such as the Advisory Committee or TrainTramBus? What is your view on releasing more information about the number of passengers, both for boarding and exiting passengers? Do you want and can you oblige SNCB to do so? Does SNCB make use of the opportunities offered by new technologies for monitoring and statistics of passenger flows? I refer to the available technology that Proximus offers, for example, where cell phone signals allow us to determine how many people are where, without that being a breach of privacy, because it is only anonymised data. This technology exists, not only at Proximus of course, and could very well be used by SNCB, also statistics on the occupation of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two types of census, with complementary objectives. The annual census takes place every year in October. For nine consecutive days, the number of passengers departing and departing at each station and at each stop on the SNCB network shall be counted. For example, the annual census enables SNCB to learn about the evolution of the number of passengers, determine the flows of passengers by axis and line, evaluate the importance of the stations and find out the times at which they are most frequented. In addition, the train escorts carry out daily censuses on different pre-defined sections to determine the capacity utilisation rate. These counts make it possible to know the occupation of the trains according to different criteria, such as work or holiday, week or weekend, school holidays or not, summer or winter, valley hours or peak hours. This information is necessary in order to determine the composition of the trains and to be able to meet the needs of the passengers. This information will enable the over- or under-staffing to be monitored and, as far as possible, corrected. Both counts are performed visually. It's more about estimates than mathematics. Absolute accuracy is not necessary, but automation of the process would benefit the current system. In addition to these figures, SNCB also has sales data. As mentioned in the replies to oral questions Nos 8530, 8632, 8998 and 9104, SNCB is examining the various possibilities available on the market to measure passenger flows more accurately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u134	Mr Minister, it is important to look further at the automation of the passenger accommodations, as this can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u135	I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u136	Minister, I asked your predecessor to map ticket prices in the framework of the benchmark. On behalf of SNCB, a study was carried out by McKinsey, comparing our railways with those of other countries to see where we could do better. Since we have not yet been able to look at the results of the benchmark, I am obliged to ask a number of questions here in order to be able to present a picture of SNCB in comparison with railway companies in other countries, all the more so because the benchmark is cited in committee too lately. One of the elements concerns the ticket price, which is all the more important as a result of demand for greater autonomy in pricing. There is never a distinction between subscription, travel card or individual tickets. Subscriptions are cheap, but if a family wants to track from Antwerp to the coast, it is more expensive than in the neighbouring countries. Mr Minister, can you give me an overview of the prices for individual train tickets, subscriptions and tickets in Belgium compared to the other countries under investigation in the benchmark? Is the benchmark taking into account the distances travelled by trains, for example Paris-Toulouse compared to Antwerp-Charleroi? Our vision is that the longer a train ride takes, the less marginal costs can be weighed. But in Belgium, the rule shows the greater the distance, the more expensive a ticket becomes, which in our opinion is a reverse logic. Is there any provision for a revision of tariffs according to a new method of calculation, for example in order to reduce marginal costs and make long-distance tracks more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u137	Mr Minister, by 2023, SNCB must prove to be sufficiently performing in order to be able to award public service contracts in the context of the liberalisation of domestic rail passenger transport. The benchmark has, of course, not only made the comparison between the different historical operators but also with other players in partially freed markets. The benchmark could therefore provide a valuable input for a vision of possible partial liberalisation of the market. Firstly, does the benchmark distinguish between the price level and the utilisation rate of the network of historical operators and new private players within the same country? If so, are significant differences noticeable? Secondly, is there a significant difference in the benchmark between the historical operators and the new players in terms of productivity? Thirdly, in the strategic view of your predecessor, it was stated that the average subsidy per train kilometre decreased by 25% in Germany in the case of contracts with tender applications compared to contracts without tender applications. Was this evolution also observed in the benchmark?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u138	The international benchmark study does not distinguish between different products. The study used by SNCB compares the price of a single journey with a standard second class ticket for 200 km. I'll get you the chart of that. Apart from the benchmark, SNCB has been taking measures for the long-distance routes for years. Firstly, there is a limitation of the tariff distance to a maximum of 150 km or even less for certain products of group notes 110 km and campus card 111 km, whereas the actual distance may be more than 250 km. Secondly, there is a stepwise approach in kilometres. Thirdly, there is a differentiated application of the tariff adjustment according, inter alia, to distance. As for Mrs Lahaye's question, no new private operator was considered in the benchmark. SNCB lets me know that she has chosen to include only comparable companies in the benchmark that operate in a similar environment. Private companies often work in partly or partly centralised environments, and that was not what the benchmark was about. In addition, SNCB considers it very difficult to find participating companies, historical or other, wishing to exchange such sensitive information with other companies, even under a non-disclosure agreement with anonymisation of the results. I hear from SNCB that the subsidy per train kilometre was investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u139	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look at the table and ask any additional written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u140	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 11711 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 11731 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament No 11754 by Mrs Temmerman, Question No 11869 by Mr Lachaert, No 11939 by Mr Dedecker and No 11869 by Mr Lachaert Mr Yüksel's 12148 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 11770 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 11772 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Calvo on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u141	Minister, I am pleased to ask you for the first time in committee. The security of all the railway infrastructure in our country has been analysed for many months and increased security is already effective in some of our stations through the increased presence of police and military services. Since the beginning of 2015, a new system of screening of railway personnel has also been implemented. Could you please indicate which functions currently require screening of candidates within the SNCB and infrabel by the National Security Authority? Since January 2015, has this screening been extended? Does the current list of functions covered by this screening include functions outside the entities of SNCB and infrabel? If so, which ones? On the basis of what methodology does HR Rail monitor possible radicalisation signals, commonly referred to as "weak signals"? Can you indicate whether candidates have been screened out for these reasons and if so how many since January 2015? Finally, is it true that a new process of collaboration is currently under way between the National Safety Authority and HR Rail for SNCB and Infrabel with a view to changing the list of functions that are being given special attention in screening?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u142	Mr Pivin, you will understand that my answer will be relatively general. I trust you, but we're in a public session. Currently, no specific functions are subject to screening by the National Security Authority (NSA) within Infrabel and SNCB. My firm as well as HR Rail have contacts with the ANS in order to consider subjecting certain functions to screening. The NSA is currently working on a decision matrix that will help identify and prioritize the staff(s) to be screened. There is currently no list such as the one you mention in your question. In order to detect any radicalisation in the head of staff, the HR Rail service sensitizes them to report to the hierarchy any behaviour or behaviour changes that might be inapplicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u143	Minister, thank you for that answer. I understand, of course, the general nature. I hear contacts are under way. It is therefore that the intention is, in the long term, to refine the screening approach. Of course, trust is mutual. I assume you will manage to have a screening that is probably more targeted and therefore more effective than it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u144	Mr President, Minister, without going back to the details of the attempted attack in Thalys on 21 August last year, it should be recalled that the Ministers of Mobility and the Interior had announced at the time that measures to strengthen the security of railway stations, including Thalys and international lines, would be taken. Indeed, measures have been taken, including the strengthening of police and military patrols. At the end of last year, the Minister in charge of Mobility announced the installation of security portals and luggage scanners in our stations, as decided by the French authorities. Precisely, on 23 September 2015, the possibility of installing security portals and ticket scans was mentioned, in particular at the stations of Brussels-Midi, Liège and Antwerp. Your predecessor said that our stations were less secure than other European international stations. It was during a visit to Spain, Madrid, a country that has chosen to install porticoes in its stations since the attacks of 2004. On 24 November 2015, the Belgian and French Ministers of Mobility exchanged on the French initiative to place these security devices on the Thalys docks. They announced a consultation meeting between the countries and operators concerned in our country, France, the Netherlands and Germany. On 22 December 2015, France installed its portals and scanners (X-Ray) on the Thalys docks at the Gare du Nord in Paris, as well as in Lille. At that time, SNCB indicated that it was still studying this feasibility on the docks of Belgian railway stations. Following this information, I questioned the Minister of the Interior on 20 January. The minister replied that discussions were under way between the railway police and the Mobility FPS. On 1 February, your predecessor seemed to have completed his analysis and defined an overall budget for securing Belgian stations. Twenty porticos and fifteen scanners for the Brussels area and other similar investments in other Belgian infrastructures, such as Zaventem, Antwerp or Liège, were discussed. Recently, information published in the press indicated that the choice would have been made not to install these portals in our railway infrastructure. Has the decision not to install X-Ray security portals at our Thalys stations been made? Is it final or temporary? If so, what are the elements of expertise or other that led to this conclusion not to install them in our Thalys stations? What are the exchanges between the Belgian and French authorities on this subject or between SNCB and SNCF? What other measures would be envisaged by your services to enhance security in these places and within what time frame? Is it, for example, about smart cameras? If so, how many are among the thousand cameras announced by your colleague from the interior? What are the characteristics of these that would ensure better control of luggage, passengers and thus better security of our railway infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u145	Dear colleague, the installation of security portals is planned at the stations of Brussels-Midi, Antwerp-Central and Liège-Guillemins. The practical installation has yet to be specified. The discussions between police and SNCB experts are almost over and my colleague from the Interior and I are going to propose structural measures to the government. The attacks showed that, more than infrastructure, soft targets had become the target of terrorists. It is therefore essential to provide a targeted device without additional risk to passengers, which would be the case if too long lines were to be formed before the porticos. Rail transport must also continue to be an easy-to-use means of transport. The experts consider that there is a need for a clear distinction between the monitoring which must be permanent and the control which must not be permanent, but which must be well targeted. It is also necessary to be able to provide a quick response in the event of an incident. The measures will have to be human as well as technological. SNCB has been consulting the market for several months to see the most efficient devices, particularly with regard to smart cameras. However, the latter are not fully adapted to an environment such as railway stations and all too often generate false alerts. The technical refining teams must intervene, which takes time and generates a significant cost. However, it is clear that SNCB's future investments will take into account the latest technologies, including software for cognitive facial recognition, detection of suspicious movements and objects, and many other elements that I will not detail here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u146	Mr Minister, at the beginning of your reply you said that three places would be equipped with porticos, Brussels-Midi...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u147	Liège-Guillemins.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u148	And Antwerp-Central. Do you have any idea of the phase or delay before implementing the devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u149	Second half of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u150	Mr Minister, there have been once again road shows by SNCB. I believe they are a good initiative. Mr Van den Bergh and myself were present in Antwerp. In 2014, there was also a transport plan, where new buffer times were created. The motivation was to achieve more robust connections, considering the works, and thus improve punctuality. We note that a number of works have now been completed and that a number of other works in the multi-annual investment plan have not yet been completed. It seems to me that, because of savings, they are not planned in the short term either. In addition, we see that our network consists of a cadancing, symmetrical timetable. This means that there should actually be an opportunity to work out good transfer arrangements and to better map the flows of passengers. My questions are as follows. Is my reasoning that, if no additional works are started, the buffer times can be removed again and reviewed in view of the 2017 transport plan? In the Netherlands, an app has been developed that mentions, among other things, the number of passengers switching, so that the offer can be better coordinated. Is this tool also known to SNCB? Have efforts already been made to optimize our cadenced, symmetrical timetable and generate more nodes, or are they still being envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u151	Mr President, a series of planned work is not being carried out as foreseen in the 2014/2017 transport plan. For the 2017 transport plan, all the aspects you mentioned will indeed be reviewed. In the Netherlands, passenger flows are measured on the basis of the validated transport tickets, smart cards of the type MOBIB, either on the gateways, or on the approved places installed for that purpose. That validation rate would be about 80%. SNCB informs me that it is in favour of open data in so far as the data provided are not of a strategic nature and the use of such data can bring added value. Passenger flows should be measured on the basis of reliable information and not on the basis of samples as is often the case with smartphone applications. The railway is the public transport mode that is the backbone of the mobility chain. The system of the connecting nodes therefore plays a crucial role, both for the connections and train-train, but also and above all for the connections and bus-train. In Lichtervelde, for example, De Lijn can ensure that its buses arrive around this node at 30 min after the hour so that bus-train connections are possible to De Panne, Bruges, Kortrijk and Brussels. SNCB informs that it wants to go even further in the creation of nodes in 2017, but the current network has a number of limitations: only track, driving time, punctuality between two stations, not suitable to generate two nodes, capacity of the station to receive multiple trains simultaneously. In a subsequent phase, it will therefore be necessary to review all parameters, particularly in the area of infrastructure, so that the connections can connect at the right time in the nodes. This second phase is an integral part of my orientation paper of May 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u152	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it is important to say here that these buffer times are effectively reviewed so that we may have realistic hours again on the connections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u153	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts converted 11790 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 11846 has been postponed. Questions Nos 11880 by Mrs Matz and 11979 by Mr Geerts have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u154	Mr President, Minister, on several occasions I have asked your predecessor about an important subject concerning cross-border mobility: the launch of the Flex Pass, which has been in force since 1 October and which is combined with the mPass in Luxembourg on the part of the journey between the border point and the first Luxembourg railway station. But we know that this measure only applies to frontier workers whose employers agree to buy mPass for their employees because one cannot buy mPass as an individual. Moreover, the mPass formula (and thus also the Flex Pass) is only annual. The tariff reduction announced does not come directly from SNCB; it comes partly from the reduced cost of the Luxembourg mPass but also, mainly, from the potential intervention of Luxembourg employers in this cost. At the end of last year, I was told that the Flex Pass would be "the subject of a forthcoming evaluation" and that on this basis, "adaptations could, if necessary, be made in order to continue to participate in the decongestion of Belgian and Luxembourg roads". Your predecessor also said that he wanted to commit himself "to ensuring that this evaluation is followed by results through, inter alia, clear and precise objectives in the management contract". Minister, what is your position on the Flex Pass? Has an evaluation of the Flex Pass taken place? If so, what were the results? If not, when is this assessment planned? What about other commuters who work in SMEs and whose employer does not propose to acquire mPass? This tariff reduction does not apply to employees who only take a monthly subscription or at certain periods of the year and also does not apply to part-time workers. When is true cross-border pricing with SNCB-specific trade policy? Do you have any concrete projects? Have you met with your Luxembourg counterpart on this subject? Here are my questions, minister. But I see you're concerned about other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u155	Mrs Poncelet, this new product introduced since 1 October 2015 combines a cross-border subscription SNCB and the Luxembourg mPass. The mPass currently issued in the form of an annual transport document is sold only to Luxembourg employers by the Verkeiersverbond after the signing of an agreement. The Flex Pass is a new annual train card from the cross-border area to the first station in Luxembourg. SNCB informs me that this new product has been a success since it was introduced. As the subscription is currently annual, an evaluation of the Flex Pass will take place after one year of marketing, in the fourth quarter of this year. The Flex Pass will be maintained. The aim is to encourage Luxembourg employers, whose proportion is not as high as they think, to sign the agreement with the Verkeiersverbond so that employees benefit from more attractive pricing. According to customers' first feedback, a monthly or quarterly subscription would indeed be popular. The possibility of proposing a monthly or quarterly Flex Pass is therefore under consideration. Since taking office, I have already had the opportunity to meet with my Luxembourg counterpart, François Bausch, on three occasions. We are looking together at possible tariff improvements to provide maximum flexibility for all cross-border commuters. I would point out that one of the current problems is that compared to all Belgians who cross the border to go to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, if my memory is good – excuse me if the figure is not quite correct in the proportion – I think that there are 25-28 % of the people employed in the Grand Duchy who adhere to these famous agreements. So there's a little bit of a brake on that level, but the ball is in the Luxembourg camp. Luxembourgers are working on the problem of accession to the Convention
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u156	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. It would be interesting to know the size of these companies that adhere to the convention because, of course, a large company has more facilities to offer this service than a smaller one. It should also be seen whether it is possible to relax, but again it is the employer who makes the effort, not the SNCB. That's kind of what we were sorry for. It is hoped that there will also be a gesture on the part of the SNCB towards the Luxembourg worker to encourage him to continue on the train. I look forward to the evaluation that comes in the fourth quarter. We'll be careful. I assume there will be information that will circulate in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u157	Minister, several waiting room closures have been observed at the stations. This reduces the comfort of travellers and we ask if it would be possible to keep these waiting rooms accessible even if the window is closed. Is it really impossible to leave them open? We do not even ask that they be heated, but accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u158	Mrs Poncelet, the SNCB informs me that when a railway station is closed, it contacts the local authorities. The aim is to allow the municipality to enjoy the empty building while maintaining customer services, such as an open and heated waiting room, etc. In exchange, we request the signature of an emhyteotic lease, with a cannon that takes into account the services rendered. The stations concerned in the province of Luxembourg are Gouvy, Vielsalm, Bertrix, Florenville, Melreux and Poix-Saint-Hubert. SNCB has recently written to the mayors concerned in order to revive their interest in the stations of Florenville and Melreux. A meeting with the commune of Florenville will take place shortly. For Bertrix and Gouvy, the sale at the counter is still organized, so the waiting room is partially opened there. For Vielsalm, negotiations have been in progress for a long time and an agreement is expected to emerge shortly. With regard to Poix-Saint-Hubert, following contacts with the mayor of Saint-Hubert two years ago, the commune was not interested in the building. For information, in Longlier-Neufchâteau, the building was sold to the commune in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u159	Minister, thank you for these answers. What about Marbehan, who is my commune? The room is already partially closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u160	She's not on my list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u161	As the counter closes at 1:00 p.m., the waiting room is closed all afternoon. As an annex to this Marbehan station, there was a cafeteria. There, too, contacts had been made with the commune. Apparently, various contacts have been undertaken, among others, by a private person. The municipality had indicated its interest in the SNCB proposal, but the concession was signed before the municipality had given its consent. At the communal level, it was regretted that it had not been notified in time and that it had not been informed of the private interest. It's not about the waiting room.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u162	I think these are two different services. One manages concessions with horeca establishments, the other manages public spaces such as waiting rooms and counters. I would advise them to have contacts with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u163	In any case they exchange information and the municipality is...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u164	...the first preferred partner to be contacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u165	Minister, I have already asked your predecessor several times about Track 3. The information that comes back to me always refers to the deletion in question. The dismantling of this track was planned for the first half of 2016. This semester is almost finished and the work has not been undertaken because in the meantime, it has been announced that the dismantling will take place by the beginning of 2017. I would like to stress the need for this route in Florenville, since the work has not begun. The removal of this track would cause many difficulties in the event of problems with other trains within this station. It is obvious that this third track is still important and is regularly used for testing new rolling stock or as a siding for freight trains. In my view, this deletion is a primer for future under-use of the line. We can therefore fear that it will eventually disappear. If savings were to be made, they should not be made in rural areas, otherwise mobility in those areas would only come back to the use of the car. Minister, can you consider preserving this route 3 in Florenville and asking Infrabel, whose representative is on my right, to deprogram this project? If this were not the case, could you ask Infrabel to study the relevance of this dismantling and post-execution of this decision? In the event of disassembly, will this route be returned to another part of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u166	Mrs Poncelet, Infrabel, in compliance with Article 90 of her management contract, proceeded to the renewal of the track equipment, in other words the switches, of Florenville by concentrating them on the Bertrix side of the station. This measure has the advantage of placing these track appliances in an alignment area, more favourable to speed than in the curved zone (Virton). As a result of this renewal, track 3 will be removed, given its low use, and the proximity of 750-metre garage tracks to Bertrix and Athus. The situation resulting from this simplification makes it possible to make the best possible dimension of the installations compared to the current traffic of line 165, local service and trans-European corridor North Sea-Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u167	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's a shame, though. The information I have at the local level, from the staff working on the spot, seems to say that this route is very useful. It is precisely necessary between Virton and Bertrix. Perhaps it is useful to re-analyse the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u168	Minister, you have already slightly addressed the issue by giving an answer to Ms.Caprasse. I will not explain again the whole context of Virton station: no tunnel, less staff, partially closed station. It is therefore feared for the future of the station, but above all for the safety of the passengers, who have to cross the tracks. To a question asked at the beginning of March, I was told that Securail would resume the Virton station in its preventive patrols without being able to tell me when these patrols would begin. It was also stated that "if it turns out that the system put in place by lnfrabel and SNCB is not respected by travellers and creates security problems after a period of awareness, further repression may be envisaged". Minister, are there securail patrols in Virton? If so, how often? If not, why not? Has a security assessment at Virton station ever taken place since this partial closure of the window? If so, what has emerged? If not, is it planned and when? Will measures be taken to ensure full safety for users of Virton Station, as provided for in the Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u169	Mrs Poncelet, allow me to refer you to the answer given by my predecessor to question No 9097 of 1 February 2016 put by Mr Maingain! With regard to the crossing of the tracks at Virton station, I certainly share your safety concerns. "The station does not have a track crossing, so users cross the tracks up to the station under the supervision of the station staff," I am told.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u170	There's no more!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u171	I am assured that the crossings always take place in the presence of personnel. The monitoring of this level crossing is currently carried out by Infrabel's Traffic Management & Services staff when it is to be used by passengers during the amplitude of passenger train traffic. Passenger trains must therefore circulate. The crossing takes place before and after the passage of the train. This activity is independent of the reception and sale at Virton station, which is the responsibility of SNCB. There are no changes to this security procedure as of March 1, 2016. The safety of the crossing of the tracks by the passengers remains the responsibility of Infrabel, which maintains and maintains staff on site. Patrols of security officers in Securail are held several times a week on line 165, which includes the Virton railway station. A risk analysis determined that the phenomenon of crossing lanes outside of any justification for taking the train is mainly the work of schoolchildren. Security officers travel to Virton Station once a week to prevent the crossing of lanes by school children. It should also be noted that the railway police and the local police are also present and patrolling. Based on the statistics, here is the crime related to the Virton train station: verbal assault, physical assault for 2016, none in 2015, five people reported for 2015 and 2016. SNCB informs me that it is not on the agenda of operational meetings to increase the presence of Securail in Virton compared to what has been done so far. However, the figures are monitored on a daily basis by the supervision of Securail and an immediate response is applied in the event of incidents involving, inter alia, the surveillance of the premises by Securail, the railway police and the local police. The railway police will soon organize a joint action with the local police by targeting juvenile delinquency and drug use. The Royal Decree of 9 July 2013 determining the requirements applicable to security personnel concerns the safety of the operation and not the safety of the persons and property you mentioned in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u172	Minister, awareness-raising is a good thing. It's the same staff, since it's Infrabel who ensures security. SNCB staff are no longer there, as there are no more windows. Safety is not ensured with the same quality as before. This is a cause for concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u173	Minister, many parliamentary questions have been asked about the excessive closures of shops throughout Belgium. I would like to go back to the case of Hotton-Melreux. Like Bomal's, its window has been closed since March 1, 2015. This station, in perfect condition, could still provide many services. There, however, users no longer have access to any information, to the waiting room, to sanitary facilities or to any help for people with reduced mobility. However, when one sees the traffic at the station, with the many workers and students who go either to Marche or Liège, one can only deplore this closure. It is all the more surprising that almost two years ago, on 28 September 2014, the first Green Point in the province of Luxembourg was inaugurated here. This meant that tourists could obtain a great deal of tourist information about the Ourthe and Aisne region through the train station's ticket office: bike rides or hikes, sights to see in the area, etc. A year later, what a waste in front of this closed station! What will be the future of Line 43? We can ask ourselves the question. Indeed, all window closures only reduce the attractiveness of small lines and give rise to fears of their removal outright. However, the train is a public service which must allow all citizens to move. This is a service to the public. Should we fear for the future of Line 43? What is your position with regard to maintaining rural lines? How can we guarantee a proper service for users who take the train to a closed station - I am thinking in particular of people with reduced mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u174	Mrs Poncelet, as stated in my political orientation paper, I would like to point out that the organisation of a quality service in rural areas also creates a tangible link between these often out-of-country areas and the major centres. From this point of view, rail transport contributes to the support of a balanced spatial planning policy and to the cohesion of the various parts of the country. A good rail service in rural areas avoids many commuters the temptation to stay in their cars to the final destination in the major employment centres. All these elements, from a collective point of view, justify the preservation of rail services in rural areas. Thus, it has been decided that no stop or station closures are scheduled by 2020. It's already an important decision. The service to line 43 Liège-Guillemins-Marloie, as a rural line, is part of the obligations mentioned in the SNCB management contract. In turn, the operation of the line is also part of Infrabel's obligations. As part of the development of the 2017 transport plan, I will ensure that particular attention is paid to the provision of lines 42 and 43. To ensure a correct service, in particular for persons with reduced mobility, SNCB shall, inter alia, take the following measures. First, in terms of information, a website and mobile app, accessible 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, social media, Facebook and Twitter, as well as a call centre available daily from 7 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Secondly, with regard to the purchase of transport tickets, sales machines at stations and stop points, a website and a mobile app, accessible 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. Next, a hot line available daily from 7:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. allows people who have difficulty using a sales machine to be assisted. Hotton-Melreux train station is not one of the stations with permanent assistance. However, SNCB shall ensure that the support of PMRs is properly organised, if necessary by mobile teams, provided that a reservation has been made. As far as the station building itself is concerned, SNCB informs me that it has recently written to the municipal authorities in order to possibly revive their interest in the station building.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u175	Thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u176	Mr Minister, there are still problems in terms of issuing certain transport tickets via automatons. It was recently replied that it was now possible for customers travelling to Luxembourg to obtain cross-border tickets as well as to validate their subscription using the automation system. It is my responsibility, however, that the purchase of cross-border tickets would not be possible everywhere. In the face of closed counters and non-existent SNCB staff, it is not tolerable that users cannot buy their ticket at their departure station and must travel to another station to be able to do so. With regard to the proposed sale of international tickets, it had been stated that the technical, commercial and financial aspects were still being analysed. Minister, have the issues of ticket issuance and subscription renewal been resolved? Are you aware of problems at some stations? If so, when will they be resolved? Has the proposed international ticket sales evolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u177	Mrs Poncelet, in accordance with the agreements concluded with CFL, automatons located in the border area with Luxembourg may issue, within the national range, tickets allowing movement to the Grand Duchy. These are the same as those available at border area counters. The validation of a subscription to Luxembourg is possible with all the automatons of our country. The technical, commercial and financial aspects are still being analysed. The issue via ticket automatons for international trains without reservation, i.e. the NRT, is scheduled for the second half of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u178	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u179	Madam President, Minister, the railway link between Mouscron and Brussels no longer offers a satisfactory transport offer for commuters. Since December 2014, the Mouscronnois are no longer entitled to two direct trains per hour, except during peak hours on this line. I would like to point out that this second train exists between Tournai and Brussels and that it would be enough to extend the latter to go to Herseaux and Mouscron. Mr Minister, this proposed solution, namely to offer a second direct train per hour between Brussels and Mouscron by extending that of Tournai, seems quite conceivable. Do you share this idea? Is that feasible? Can you provide me with any clarifications if this is not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u180	Mr Delannois, during the design of the 2014 Transport Plan, SNCB revised its offer according to passenger flows, operating constraints and budgetary requirements. That's the classic formula. In view of the low occupation in off-peak hours between Mouscron and Tournai, the option was taken to circulate a single locked relationship per hour, the IC-26 relationship between Courtrai, Mouscron and Brussels. The service to Mouscron through the IC-06 relationship, which connects Tournai to Brussels and the airport, is not conceivable because its extension between Mouscron and Tournai would result in an extra cost of staff and rolling stock, since the direct re-use of the equipment becomes impossible. In peak hours, when customers are more numerous, the offer is supplemented by two direct P trains, two direct trains per hour. In total, by 09:00, SNCB offers 9 connections between Mouscron and Brussels, either by direct train or by correspondence that meets the expectations of the majority of customers. As part of the new Transport Plan of December 2017, SNCB will review whether improvements in supply between Mouscron and Brussels are possible. I guess at the road show, some people had the opportunity to express the need for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u181	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, I am not necessarily entirely happy with your answer. Actually, we're talking about Mouscron in Brussels, but I was also talking about Tournai's extended link via Mouscron. It is a question of giving the possibility of having a much greater mobility between two cities which are very close and very complementary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u182	Madam President, Minister, the Mouscronnois who have to travel by train to Mons, Charleroi, Namur or Liège have an extremely long journey time. Indeed, there is no direct train allowing these commuters to use the Walloon dorsal (excepted before 7:18 a.m.) and moreover, the waiting time for the connections is very long. I'll take a simple example. If I start from Mouscron station at 08:05, I arrive in Namur at 10:22 a.m., or 2:17 a.m. later. With this in mind, I can only ask myself questions about the competitiveness of the rail network with the road network. Mr Minister, it seems obvious that it is necessary to reduce the journey time between Mouscron and the Walloon cities I have just mentioned, at least if it is your intention to increase the number of users of the railway network, which I have no doubt about. Is it therefore conceivable that the Mouscron station could be connected directly to the Walloon dorsal? If not, can the waiting time at the Tournai station be reduced? Will such measures be part of your transportation plan to be released next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u183	Mr Delannois, at the departure of Mouscron, the SNCB's current transport plan favours the offer to Tournai-Brussels thus meeting the expectations of the majority of commuters leaving from Mouscron: 382 commuters per day on weekdays towards Brussels against 17 towards Mons, Charleroi and Namur. The journeys to Namur take place in 2:17 hours in off-peak hours, on the other hand in peak hours and following the start of trains set off from Mouscron instead of Tournai, this journey time is reduced to 1:58 in two cases and 2:04 in a single case when the majority of commuters will take the train. A similar offer also exists for the return to the evening peak. Various studies are under way as part of the new transport plan of December 2017. SNCB is exploring the possibility of improving the commercial speed between Mouscron and the major Walloon cities either by setting up more direct lines or by improving connections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u184	Thank you, Minister. If it is possible in the future to give priority to those Moscronese who feel a little set aside. Indeed, imagine yourself! Two hours seventeen to make Mouscron-Namur, it's huge while a good time is enough to make Lille-Paris! If my memories are good, there was a time when the steam train between Tournai and Brussels took less than an hour!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u185	Minister, I spoke to another minister a few months ago in this same committee to express my concern about access to rail transport for people with reduced mobility. I had denounced the fact that Tournai was still abandoned in terms of offers of services, particularly those for the PMRs. One measure was to reduce the booking time for personal assistance. From 24 hours to 3 hours, he left 18 major railway stations in the country. Unfortunately, Tournai was not one of them. In addition, I noted that the strategic plan to reduce the number of staff was detrimental to those in need of assistance. Human resources are needed to accommodate and accompany RMPs in order to facilitate their access to the train. As said at the time, this is not from me, but from the many testimonies I have had from people with reduced mobility who are really asking for support and practical help. In response to my concerns, the former Minister of Mobility told me that it would be appropriate for Infrabel and SNCB to aim for better coordination of investments in the accessibility of stations to people with reduced mobility. Furthermore, SNCB will ensure that the door height of its new rolling stock is aligned to the height of the wharfs. Minister, what concrete measures have been taken to improve the accessibility of railway stations to PMRs, and in particular to Tournai? Finally, would you dare to say that reducing staff within the SNCB will not cause any inconvenience to these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u186	Colleagues, when constructing or renovating railway stations and stop points, the accessibility of RMPs is taken into account so that the facilities meet at least the standards and obligations in force. In addition to this work, SNCB has made a commitment through its management contract to improve the accessibility of stations for PMRs. A station is considered to be fully accessible when the station building and docks are accessible and when staff offer assistance in boarding and disembarking trains. As of 1 January 2016, it must be recognised that there are 15 stations that meet these criteria. As a reminder, a station building is said to be accessible when it meets the following five criteria: 1. at least one access completely free of any obstacle linking the public road to the window hall; 2. at least one access to the wharfs completely free from any obstacle; 3. the presence of a sanitary system adapted to PMRs in addition to the sanitary facilities intended for travellers; 4. the presence of guidance lines for blind persons and podotactile slabs; 5. the presence of parking spaces reserved for PMRs in car parks. The wharfs are considered accessible when the wharfs are high. As a wharf manager, SNCB opted for the standardization of the 76 cm wharf edges. However, for technical reasons, 55 cm dock edges are tolerated in specific cases. Transfer between docks is possible via a footbridge or under-lane corridor equipped with ramps or elevators. The docks are equipped with podotactile paths. In the 2008-2012 management contracts, the objectives of the former SNCB-Holding were to make accessible the railway halls of 52 stations in 2012, representing at least 60% of passengers, 100 stations in 2018 and all stations in 2028. Infrabel's objectives were to make accessible the docks of 38 stations in 2012, 50 stations in 2018 and 100 stations in 2028. The 2012 targets are now being met. It's a little late, but it's reached. As part of the new railway structure, the objectives of Infrabel were taken over by SNCB, with the exception of the upgrading of the wharf edges. To date, these objectives have not been reviewed. These are still under discussion in the context of the future management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. Similarly, the multi-year investment plans of SNCB and Infrabel are still under development. For the specific case of the station in Tournai, renovation work on the passenger building was completed in 2015. This work was an opportunity to provide level access to the entrances of the no-lost room and to install automatic doors there. A window and a health centre are adapted to the PMRs. Finally, the floor covering was equipped with podotactile lines. To be fully accessible, the wharfs still need to be upgraded and access to the modified wharfs. Assistance to PMR travellers is one of my priorities. Despite the staff reductions achieved by SNCB, its internal organisation is adapted by ensuring that the service offered to PMR travellers is not penalized under current operating conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u187	Minister, thank you. Indeed, a lot of investments have been made in the station of Tournai. If we already meet a whole series of criteria, I hope that in the future we can go a little further to improve the conditions of transport for people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u188	Minister, we have already travelled well in the last few minutes. We will now go to Lessines where the transport offer offered to commuters on the train to Brussels is limited and has consequences for other stations in the region. In peak time, the train frequencies offered to commuters are insufficient. Moreover, the connections in Grammont to the capital are, for some hours, poorly thought out and considerably lengthen the journey. Thus, the Lessines commuter sometimes prefers the stations of Ath, Silly or Enghien to go to Brussels and there are parking problems. In view of the negative consequences felt at the stations I have just mentioned, is it possible to improve the transport offer for commuters from Lessines to the capital? Will such measures be included in the 2017 transport plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u189	Mr Delannois, the current transport plan foresees a relationship L circulating every hour between Grammont, Lessines, Ath, Mons, Tournai. This relationship offers optimal connections in 8 minutes to Ath for Lessines travellers travelling to Brussels. This offer is supplemented by 3 P trains, in the morning, and 2 P trains, also in the evening in correspondence to Ath to arrive in point at a service of two offers per hour when the demand is highest. The report of Lessinois commuters to Silly and Enghien train stations to Brussels is inherent in geography. The configuration of the railway lines involves passing through Ath, so first moving away from Brussels, which has consequences in terms of journey time regardless of the offer. You need to know how to step back to make better progress! The various constraints involved did not make it possible to offer connections in Grammont to Enghien and Brussels from Lessines, in the current transport plan. As part of the studies on its new transport plan of December 2017, SNCB will examine the possibility of organising good connections in Grammont to Brussels, while keeping optimal connections to Ath. That's all I can answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u190	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u191	Minister, electric bicycles are becoming increasingly popular with our fellow citizens. It would seem that today a new bike sold out of four, a new model, has an electric motor. However, due to their weight and power, these bikes can unfortunately pose a danger to their users. According to the latest statistics reported recently in the press, there were 509 accidents involving this type of equipment last year. According to the information available to me, a reform of the legislation, in the form of a royal decree, would be planned for the beginning of September 2016 in order to regulate this form of mobility, but also to ensure maximum safety for users. Depending on the type of electric bicycle, it would be necessary to make the helmet compulsory, to be at least 16 years old to be a driver, to take out compulsory insurance or to have a compulsory registration plate, in the form of a small mineralogic plate, which would allow more effective control by the police forces. Minister, can you provide us with more details on the reform project currently under way, as well as on the wearing of the helmet, the minimum age required, compulsory insurance or the licence imposed? What are the options that currently enjoy the government's preference? With regard to the mandatory registration scenario, what rules will be laid down both in terms of the type of gear, the timing of the introduction of the measure, and also in terms of informing the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u192	Mr Calomne, there is indeed a project being finalized for electric bicycles. This project consists of two components: an adaptation of the Road Traffic Code and an adaptation of the Ministerial Order on the Registration of Vehicles. As regards the Road Traffic Code, in accordance with European Regulation 168/2013, two new categories of vehicles equipped with an auxiliary propulsion mode with the primary aim of assisting pedalling will be introduced. First category: the motor cycle, which is characterised by a speed of 25 km/h or less, a power between 25 W and 1000 W, two wheels or more and the presence of pedals. The minimum age is 16 years. A driver's licence is not required and drivers of this type of vehicle fall under the same regime as cyclists. The second category concerns the Speed Pedelec, which is characterized by a speed of 45 km/h or less, a power of 4,000 W or less, two wheels and the presence of pedals. We specify the wheels because now there are single-wheeled or three-wheeled vehicles. Drivers of this type of vehicle are required to follow the rules applicable to moped drivers, which implies a mandatory AM or B driving licence and a minimum age of 16 years. As the aim is to stimulate this sustainable mode of transport, Speed Pedelec drivers will be able to benefit from a few exceptions. They have the possibility to wear a bicycle helmet with the additional condition that it offers protection of the temples and the back of the head. Registration is not intended for motor cycles but for Speed Pedelec, which are considered mopeds. Registration will be compulsory for this category and a specific plate will be created. There are also implications for compulsory insurance. It is difficult to tell you at this time when this new regulation will come into force. I am well aware of the importance of informing citizens sufficiently in advance of the entry into force of this legislation. That is why my administration, in consultation with the SPF Economie, is in the process of drafting a brochure with the big news. The goal is to send this brochure to the bike merchants, as they are the first in contact with people who are thinking about buying such a bike. It is important to know that today, in Belgium, we sell more electric bicycles than conventional bicycles. This brochure will inform future users of electric bicycles. In addition, it will also be possible to find information on the new regulations on electric bicycles on the website of the Mobility and Transport FPS, as well as answers to the most frequent questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u193	Minister, thank you for your clear and comprehensive answers. It also seems to me important to take account of the changing habits in terms of mobility, since electric bicycles, as you said, are increasingly successful. It was therefore necessary to adapt the existing standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u194	I would like to make a few clarifications. When I say that we sell as many electric bikes as we sell classics, I'm talking about adult bikes. Then there is a third category of bicycles that run at more than 45 km/h. These are covered by motorcycle legislation, with everything involved: helmets, permits, etc. Finally, the age limit is the result of recommendations made by specialists. From the moment you don't have to pedal anymore, but when you just need to activate an assist device that boosts your bike, you fall into categories where it can pose dangers. It is considered that under the age of 16, this danger is not yet well perceived. I hear there's trouble in the corners. I'll leave it to the specialists to guide us. This is also followed by European experience and regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u195	Mr Minister, the Brussels government announced on Thursday 2 June its decision to create a "low emissions" zone throughout the capital, which should exclude the presence of the most polluting cars. In concrete terms, this area would be set up by 2018, initially targeting vehicles with the Euro1 pollution standard. Subsequently, cars that meet the Euro2 standard would be banned from 2019 and should gradually follow the Euro3 indices in 2020, Euro4 in 2022 and Euro5 in 2025. The Brussels authorities also indicated that compliance with the "low emissions" zone would be ensured by a system of smart cameras capable of recognizing license plates and comparing them with the IVD database. As the latter is managed at the federal level, the establishment of the low-emission zone should therefore require cooperation agreements between levels of power or, at the very least, protocols for collaboration between the public services concerned. Can you tell me whether the IVD services have a data bank whose technical characteristics enable them to meet the objectives of the Brussels Region? In other words, is data sharing currently possible at no extra cost to the federal level? What is the current state of consultation between your services and those of the Brussels regional authorities on this measure? Have any requests been made to implement the above-mentioned cooperation agreement or protocols? Can you tell us whether your services have been contacted by representatives of other Belgian cities who are considering the introduction of a comparable system? If so, what is the state of the synergies developed so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u196	Mr Calomne, the Mobility & Transport FPS has a Car-Bank to meet the objectives envisaged by the Brussels Region. However, these Euroclass data were not included in the source file of the IVD, because they could only be mentioned when applying for registration. That was not always the case. Even if access is given, complete information will only be available from the day the registration is registered. In order to be able to access this data, a Memorandum of Understanding is required. To date, no such agreement has been reached with the Brussels Region. Nor has any protocol with similar objectives been concluded with other municipalities. However, a short time ago, contact was taken by the City of Antwerp for such an initiative. So, even if the measure is taken, the data are not complete to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u197	Minister, thank you for this information. I'll come back to you when the device is in place. I hope that the Brussels Region will draw the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u198	Now, I can thank everyone: the translators, the committee secretary and all my colleagues who have held to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic445x.u199	Thank you too!
