ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I tabled my first question on 5 January. That was put on the agenda at some point, but you asked me to divide it into a written part for the figures and an oral part. Here's my oral part. However, I would like to point out that my written question has still not been answered. So I might as well have put it orally today. I just want to report that to you. I hope we can make this easier next time. That we can also get a reply to the written questions within the time limit provided for by the Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u2	When was that question submitted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u3	It was submitted on 20 January and the deadline has now expired. I will not make any point about this now, but I would like an answer, particularly since you asked me to ask it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u4	There are two questions that have not been answered. Marriage migration remains one of the most important channels of migration to our country. In the past, 40,000 migrants were involved each year. When we amended the law on family reunification in the previous legislature, it fell a lot. We now have around 30 to 35,000 family reunifications every year. So it remains an important migration channel. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that the legislative amendment that we have implemented will continue. We're not going to change anything about it. We would fine-tune the law where necessary. There are still a number of points that needed to be improved. We agreed on this point that we would deal with it. One of these things was to offer expats other opportunities to prove that they have sufficient and stable income if they have only returned to our country. They will not always be able to meet it. We are now a year and three months on with this new government. My question is: what about the preparatory work? Have you started working out those necessary refinements or legal changes? Where do you or the administration stand with that? Has this already been submitted to the government and when can we expect this in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u5	Mrs Lanjri, the refinements introduced to family reunification legislation are the subject of a draft law submitted to the Chamber last week. In addition, there are further adjustments in this respect which are currently being prepared by the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u6	Mr President, if this has been tabled this week, I hope that we will put it on our agenda and discuss it as soon as possible. Do you have a timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u7	I have not yet received it, but as soon as it is referred to the committee, we will arrange it. That will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u8	Could you send that to us, too? If I had known that, I would have withdrawn my question. We are not aware that this was submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my inquiry today concerns the quality of reception and support for asylum seekers. It will focus on four points. The first point I want to address with you concerns privatization. It has now been several months since private security companies responded favourably to the offer that had been published in order to create additional transit places. It is my responsibility that three companies have been selected. Senior Assist won the market in September for 550 places on three sites for adults and families. In another market, the company also obtained 350 places in October 2015. The G4S group also obtained 502 places on two sites for adults and families. Finally, Bridgestock acquired a new market in October 2015 for 600 seats. It is known that these different societies did not have the habit of welcoming asylum seekers, which requires a particular approach. So, Mr Secretary of State, can you first give me an initial assessment of the quality of reception and support of asylum seekers in the sites managed by these three companies? Can you briefly describe to me what framework exists within these private sites for asylum seekers? Are there educators, social workers, doctors who are sufficient to provide supervision? What is the check carried out by your services to verify the quality of the reception reserved for asylum seekers? My second point is more about accompanying asylum seekers. I would like to hear from you about what is being put in place by Fedasil to facilitate the transition from the centre to integration into our society. I have learned that some centres may decide to organise citizenship courses or support for finding a job or housing, but nothing is imposed by Fedasil. However, it turns out that a large number of asylum-seekers, who become refugees when they obtain their consent, find it difficult in the world to find employment or housing when they have to leave the centre. Indeed, they are taken care of from the start when they arrive in our territory and when they have to leave, this poses problems. Can you confirm to me the information that some, and not all, centres are giving this opportunity? What services are actually provided by Fedasil Centres to assist them? Do you not think that there is a lack of follow-up once asylum seekers have obtained their permission? What do you intend to put in place for this? So far, Fedasil's services have been dealing with this issue a little bit. It is known that the influx of demands has overburdened educators and social workers in the various centres. What effective response can you provide to these refugees when they have to leave the centre? The third point concerns tensions within the centres. These are becoming more frequent and important. They can be explained by different factors. There is, among other things, a high concentration in some centres of large communities that are trying to take on the "leadership". There is also an increase in the population in the centres. In fact, different containers have been installed around the existing centres without having increased the reception possibilities of the places of life, the health facilities of the centres, which obviously creates a whole series of tensions. So, Mr. Secretary of State, can you establish the situation of the incidents that have occurred so far by mentioning whether or not law enforcement intervention has been required? Given this increasingly tense climate within the centres, what do you intend to put in place to best accommodate asylum seekers arriving in our territory and avoid all these tensions? Are additional training for staff also planned to deal with this new violence in the centres? In conclusion, my fourth point concerns the problem of tents. In August, tents were set up around the barracks and Fedasil centres without any increase in the places of life. It was said that it would be provisional. More than six months later, however, these tents are still present and applicants live in precarious conditions (cold, rain, humidity). I would therefore also like to ask you to give a brief account of the situation in this area. What are the alternatives that I hope you will propose? And what is your vision of the future of all these precarious places?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Crusnière, a few things about private places. Fedasil has set minimum quality standards for hospitality that apply to the entire network. The specifications for private operators were based on these minimum quality standards. The Agency therefore expects the same quality on the part of all reception operators. I've said it a couple of times here. And it was also one of the absolute preconditions for the government's decision to work with private operators for the reception or reception of asylum seekers. This is done almost everywhere in Europe. In the case of private operators, a staff framework was included in the specifications from the second call. This staff framework includes a host structure manager, social workers, permanent staff, nurses, as well as logistical and administrative support. With regard to MENA centres, the framework also includes educators. Their number is calculated on the basis of the number of reception places. I think it's normal. Quality, including staff framework, is monitored at different times and in various ways. The Agency shall make a visit to the premises before the award of the contract, then before the opening of the reception structure and carry out one or more verifications after the opening. There is an audit committee within Fedasil that is responsible for visits and reporting. The technical specifications of the specifications shall be checked each time. A quality report that follows a verification visit shall include the actions to be undertaken and a time limit for their execution. The Agency shall also monitor its management of the host network. Mr Crusnière, I understand your group's concerns about this private operator, which I share. We therefore carry out a lot of checks. For the moment, no significant problems have been identified. It is true that Fedasil and the Red Cross in particular benefit from an experience which is calculated in decades in terms of the reception of asylum seekers. With the involvement of private operators, a certain amount of time will therefore be required. But these operators offer good quality reception in compliance with the standards. Once recognized and from the moment they left the centre, refugees would normally fall under the jurisdiction of the federated entities. Your group has enormous responsibilities at both Brussels and Walloon levels. Well-being, education and housing are the responsibility of the regions. Every month, I put this item on the agenda of the Consultation Committee. This subject is therefore the subject of discussions with the Regions. I have a good relationship with the latter, a relationship that I could even call optimal, even if it was not always easy at the beginning of the crisis. I am thinking in particular of the problem we have experienced with Maximilian Park, particularly at the Brussels level. You must know that with Mr Madrane and the Government of the French Community, we have reached an agreement for more than 100 seats for the MENA. Meetings of the Consultation Committee are held every month during which this topic is discussed. There are no major debates or points of discord in this regard. All regions and all levels of government must shoulder their responsibilities to respond to this crisis and to carry out this humanitarian operation, which has been the largest since the Second World War. If everyone doesn't put their own to work together, we're not going to achieve anything, it's clear. The municipalities and CPAS work very well. With regard to the last weeks in the Fedasil reception centres, we currently have 33 incidents with different levels of severity over the period from January 1 to February 23, 2016. Mrs. Pas asked me the same question. The figures therefore reveal 33 incidents of various severity, while in 2010 there were 339; in 2011, 328; in 2012, 356; in 2013, 263; in 2014, 152; in 2015, 200. If necessary, we'll call on the police. Of the 33 incidents recorded in 2016, 14 involved police intervention. Incident figures for the entire host network are not available. However, I would like to point out that for the time being Fedasil is working on a central system for recording and tracking incidents for the entire reception network. For now, we only have the incident figures in the Fedasil centres and not for the others, but I want all the incidents to be recorded because I want to be able to see them. It is normal for us to have these figures. For the moment, we are organizing a central recording system. This will take a few more weeks and should be resolved. You say that tensions are increasing and that there are more incidents. I share your view that there are large groups of nationalities and young unmarried men. It's not always easy even if you can't generalize. Similarly, employees in the centres that are with them on a daily basis do not always have an easy job. With young Afghans and Iraqis, the temperature sometimes rises. But there are no extreme incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these answers. Far be it from me to argue about it. For we do have the same concern: the quality of this reception. As far as privatisation is concerned, if we share the same desire for an optimal quality and worthy of acceptance, we do not always share the same philosophy on how to achieve it. In view of this privatisation, what worries me is that minimum standards have been set. I hope that the various private partners will go beyond these. You are also telling me that a framework has been included, but only from the second call. This means that for the first appeal, there was no framework for these private partners and they could do what they wanted. This is of great concern to me, because the quality of the supervision is important for a dignified reception of applicants. It's kind of disturbing to me. An audit committee shall report. I'm glad! You will see, because I am going to table a motion, that I am asking for a report to be drawn up so that it can be debated in this committee. It is important to follow up on this control. Indeed, I assume that managers are full-time equivalents. It is therefore necessary to ensure that staff are on-site depending on the type of load and, if possible, on an ongoing basis. It is not enough to create a framework, but it must be operational. With regard to competences in relation to the federated entities, I had obviously not escaped the fact that once the documents were received, we were moving towards competence at the level of the Regions. It's more than obvious! Everyone has taken on their responsibilities in this area and the Walloon government has set up a task force to be able to respond optimally to this reception once the documents have been obtained. You tell us that the dialogue is optimal between the different entities but it is nevertheless my responsibility that the Walloon Region has asked you a whole series of figures and data in order to be able to work effectively within this task force and that the answers are slow to come. I stress that in order to be able to benefit from the integration routes and solutions that are offered within the various entities, refugees must indeed be able to register. There are therefore steps to be taken to find housing, to register, to find a job, to find social assistance, etc. However, they are often deprived of this precise research. Fedasil's centres, staff and educators help them at best, but there is a shortage when they have to leave the centre and then register with one of the Communities in order to be able to effectively follow this path of integration. This link should be grounded in order to find solutions. In conclusion, in relation to the incidents, I believe that the problem arises with the large communities that have arrived and that they have been installed in tents within a single Fedasil centre: they do not always understand why they are outside while the other nationalities are inside. This creates a whole series of tensions. Tensions increase due to the length of time because – you did not answer me on this point – tent accommodation was initially planned on a temporary basis, whereas this type of accommodation tends to settle for a long time, creating difficulties. We must therefore pay attention to this problem and find solutions. I am also thinking of Fedasil's staff, who have to deal with increasingly numerous and increasingly difficult conflicts. I therefore invite you to hear the needs that Fedasil's staff expresses. More and more burn-out are being reported to me in the staff from Fedasil to Rixensart and I believe that adequate training in stress management and conflict management is needed. I know that some training courses are already in place, but I think that this really needs to be stressed. I therefore move a motion with four points. First, permanent monitoring by the services of Fedasil on the quality of reception and support for asylum seekers and you tell me that this is ensured by the audit committee. Secondly, I would like the Secretary of State to draw up a comprehensive report by 1 April on the reception and support of asylum seekers at sites run by private companies. This would allow us to hold a debate in the committee on this report. The third point is to offer as soon as possible alternatives to tents that have been installed outside the Fedasil centres. Finally, all appropriate measures must be taken to facilitate the departure and proper integration of asylum-seekers once their applications have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u12	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, request 1. permanent monitoring by the services of Fedasil of the quality of reception and support of asylum seekers in sites managed by private companies; 2. to draw up, by 1 April this year, a full report on the reception and accompanying of asylum seekers at sites run by private companies; 3. to propose as soon as possible alternatives to tents which have been installed outside the Fedasil centres; 4. take all appropriate measures to facilitate the departure and proper integration of asylum seekers once their application has been accepted. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, asks 1. that Fedasil's services would continuously monitor the quality of reception and support for asylum seekers in centres run by private companies; 2. that a full report on the reception and support of asylum seekers in centres run by private companies would be drawn up by 1 April 2016; 3. that alternatives should be proposed as soon as possible to the tents established outside the Fedasil centres; 4. that all useful measures should be taken to facilitate the departure from the centre and the social integration of those concerned once their asylum application has been approved. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u13	As far as tents are concerned, we will do so as soon as possible. I know it's not ideal. Secondly, on the figures of the Walloon government, Mr Flahaut asked me for the figures for the Walloon Brabant at the concertation committee. These figures have been transmitted by my firm. We give all the figures that are requested of us. The ones we have of course: everything that is recorded, all the statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 8610 by Mr Philippe Pivin and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 8876 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question dates back to mid-January. At the time, a number of denunciations had been made concerning disastrous living conditions in the Fedasil centre in Elsenborn. These had been denied by Fedasil. Since then, consultations have taken place. I would therefore like to take stock of the situation. Minister, how many reception spaces are available at the Elsenborn centre? What categories of asylum seekers are accepted? How is this reception organised in practice? What measures have been taken by the centre to ensure good reception conditions? The absence of washing machines in the centre was highlighted. A procurement procedure would have been initiated. Is that correct? With regard to the frequent intervention of the police following altercations between residents, under what circumstances is the use of the police? Is there still a particular tension in this centre? How are transfers of residents to other centres organized? The contract of the former director of the centre has not yet been renewed. A recruitment procedure is under way. Where are we? When can we expect the new director to arrive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, my question is in line with that of my colleague, since I am criticized for the accommodation and management conditions at the Fedasil Centre in Elsenborn. These relate to a number of issues, including the management of incidents within the centre itself and, inter alia, the systematic use of the police. It appears that at least part of the problem lies in the non-replacement of the previous director of this centre. What are the causes of police intervention? Should this be seen, as is the case elsewhere, as a consequence of an overpopulation of this centre? We just discussed it. How many times have law enforcement been used? Under what procedures? How long has the centre been without a director? Have any measures been taken to fulfil this function? According to what calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u17	Dear colleague, I will be visiting Elsenborn in the coming weeks; the date is not yet set. As of January 29, 2016, there were 512 residents: 360 single men, 17 single women, 52 family adults, 55 family children and 28 MENA over the age of 17. Residents are divided into three blocks. The most recent steps taken to ensure the proper reception conditions were to allocate residents more adequately according to their family situation and origin. Since January 12, one of the three blocks has been reserved for families and MENA in order to preserve the calm and rest of the children. The other two blocks are reserved for isolated women and men. Each floor of the blocks can be closed separately. All the services of the reception centre are now operational: social reception, logistics, "vestiboutique", medical, animation, education, catering, technical, neighbourhood initiatives, accounting, life support and residential coordination. The package allows for the reception and daily support of asylum seekers, in good conditions. I have, in the annex, a description of all the activities organised in the field of animation and school accompaniment. I can pass it on to you. I have no knowledge of the contacts Mr. Houart would have made with my firm. The meeting requested by Fedasil provided an overview of the operation of the centre since its opening. Many topics were discussed, such as education, adult training, staff environment and safety. The constructive remarks made by the German-speaking Government were noted. It was also agreed to review the situation in a few weeks' time. Fifteen washing machines and 15 dryers have been delivered to the centre since October 2015. These machines must be distributed in all three blocks. The current public procurement is concerned with the electrical connection, water inflows and discharges of the 30 machines. The deadline for the procurement was extended until 29 January. Now it's in order. The exact figures are not available. The permanents call the police when a situation degenerates and they do not feel able to manage it. Generally speaking, since the reorganisation of the blocs on 12 January, the day when more than 200 residents were moved, however, tensions in the reception centre have decreased sharply and calls to the police have almost ceased. In the event of a medical transfer, the resident concerned shall be notified of confirmation of the possible transfer to a more suitable reception centre. He is warned when it is certain that this transfer can take place, before avoiding any disappointment. In the event of a disciplinary transfer, the resident concerned shall be summoned as soon as the centre receives the official documents necessary to make the new designation. The resident usually leaves the centre after packing and taking his or her out-take. He also receives all the instructions to go to this new centre, the necessary transport tickets (by bus and train) as well as the pocket money of the community work due. If necessary, it is also taken to the nearest railway station. Finally, in the event of voluntary return, the resident is of course well informed in advance by the social service so that his return takes place in the best possible conditions. At the opening of the centre, there was coordination, followed by an ad interim management, pending the start of the recruitment procedure for the head of the reception centre. This procedure has been initiated. In the absence of candidates responding to the profile sought, the job offer was again published in January. In conclusion, the beginnings were not easy, not only in Elsenborn, but also in many centres. Indeed, everything happened very quickly. But what did you want me to do? We work every day. Today, things have calmed down in Elsenborn. I intend to visit some centres, including this one in the coming weeks, as soon as I have some time because Elsenborn is a little far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u18	He's not that far away. I go there almost every day. Minister, I heard you very well. Setting up is always a little complicated. However, in this case, it was the centre of Elsenborn that was particularly pointed. The same problem has not been raised in many of the centres which, however, have found themselves in the same situation. Having said that, I see much progress in terms of reception conditions. The blocks are separated. Families can find some quietness. The machines were connected to the washing machine. You yourself acknowledged that the machines had been delivered in January, but that they had not been connected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u19	The machines were supplied in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u20	It was the connection that had not been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u21	Exactly. There was a problem with electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u22	When you think about it, this question is somewhat laughable. I know that we need to go through market procedures, but sometimes we can wonder about the effectiveness of this type of procedure. Still, the management of the centre is still not operational due to the lack of a candidate. You said that a new appeal had been launched at the end of January because of the absence of a candidate. Such a position is important for a centre. The management is now carried out by an ad interim coordinator or by coordinators from other centres who take over, for a period of time, to the detriment of their own centre. The Committee had received our attention because of the difficulties that had been raised publicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, foreign media has already provided us with a lot of forecasts for the number of asylum seekers. For example, the German authorities expect the number to reach 3.5 million by 2020. Moreover, the same authorities had underestimated the number for the last year, because they did not expect a million people. In the Netherlands a whole debate was held on the forecasts, because the cabinet's was quite different from that of the administration. Officials predicted 90 000 asylum seekers, while the Cabinet communicated that there would be 58 000, as in 2014. I am aware that the number is difficult to predict, Mr Secretary of State, but when you announce at Fedasil's New Year reception that the number of asylum seekers will be limited to 45 000 this year, I expect you to be able to support those figures. Have you received forecasts from certain organisations or services for 2016? What do these estimates indicate? What number do you expect for 2016? How can you justify these figures? What measures does the government take to minimise the influx of asylum seekers this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u25	Were you present at the New Year's reception at Fedasil? Did you hear me say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u26	I overheard it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u27	It is important to know that this happened via, because I certainly did not put it that way. I said something else there. Anyway... Anyway, I can't give you a prognosis. The fact that the Dutch are doing this is on them. In itself, I find projections making particularly complex and delicate. In the current context, it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of asylum seekers entering the European Union, let alone the number that will be registered in Belgium in 2016. For the past two months we have had these figures, because that is what the past is: the influx has fallen sharply compared to autumn 2015. Also today, early March, this is under control. You are asking what measures we are taking. My staff and I are constantly working on solutions to control the influx at both national and European level. Not only do I do that, the government does that, Mr Juncker does that. Mr Tusk is currently abroad. There is constant work to find solutions to this. The Prime Minister will also attend the European Summit in Brussels on 7 March. That is a very important meeting. You know as well as I do that a solution to the refugee problem is not easy or obvious. I was pleased to hear that last Thursday the Greek Minister for Migration explicitly confirmed that Turkey is a safe third country for him, that sending back to Turkey is an absolute option, that refugees in Greece should apply for asylum and that it is not up to them to choose in which country they apply for asylum. I've heard that explicitly. He talked about immediate reading to Turkey. It's the first time I've heard that. The tension is rising, we will see; it will wait for what will eventually come out of the bus. We're working on it day and night, Mrs. Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u28	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. My question, of course, was not whether you were working on it. After all, I can assume you're working on it. You can't make any estimates. Good governance is forward-looking, so you need to take this into account in your policy. That you will see does not seem to me to be a very good proactive administration. You say there is a decrease compared to autumn 2015, but we are now dealing with the cold winter months. When comparing the figures for January 2016 with those for January 2015, there is a huge increase. Not only do you not make forecasts, but you do not say whether there will be a decrease or an increase this year. You say you'll see. We have seen over the past year that there is not much of it in the house if we have to wait for the European summits and Juncker. If the influx of asylum seekers will fall, I am convinced that it will be thanks to countries such as Austria and Macedonia that are not waiting for the next failure of a European summit, but that they themselves will enforce facts and thus steer Europe in the right direction. I would have liked to see our government moving in that direction instead of waiting for good Juncker and European summits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u29	Mrs Pas, when I say I will see, it is because I do not make forecasts, and that is what I am sticking to. If you say that the figure was much higher in January 2016 than in January 2015, then I can tell you that the figure was much lower in February 2016 than in February 2015. If you ask me what it will be in March, I can tell you, after two days, that it is not so bad. We'll see. I watch that every day. You say I'm not prepared, but I'm very well prepared. I have heard a number of people here say that this is not going to work. In winter they will all have to sleep on a cold couch and with some luck in a city park under a tree. That didn't happen. So far we have been dealing with the matter as we have to deal with it. We will try to do everything in our power to manage the influx of refugees as we should, given the exceptional circumstances we are currently experiencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u30	It is the choice of the Secretary of State not to make any prognosis, but there are services and organisations in this country that do make forecasts, as happens in other countries. In other words, we are the only exception in Europe. That's what I remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, there is an Islamic aid organisation called Al-Ighaatha, which regularly visits asylum seekers in centres, especially in the Netherlands. Research by the newspaper NRC shows that this foundation not only provides material and financial assistance, but also sympathizes with jihadists. Returned Syrians and jihad sympathizers are actively involved in the foundation. In addition to supporting refugees, the foundation also provides financial support for prisoners of terrorism. Al-Ighaatha distributes videos through social media in which martyrdom is glorified. The foundation wants Muslims who have arrived in Europe to start practicing true Islam again, because then the Muslim community will regain its glory, honour and power. In the meantime, Minister Jambon has informed me that there are no indications that Al-Igha is also recruiting in Belgium under that name, but we do know that the foundation visited the refugee camp in the Maximilian Park in Brussels in September 2015, hence my questions, Mr Secretary of State. Firstly, are you taking measures to prevent this obscure organisation from visiting asylum centres in this country? Secondly, is Fedasil's staff, who receive a course on detecting radicalisation, informed about the way organisations like Al-Ighaatha work? Finally, do there exist criteria, linked to such radical groups, on the basis of which visitors are refused access to asylum centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Pas, these are incidents that took place in the Netherlands, not Belgium. In Belgium, I have no knowledge of such visits to Fedasil reception centres or the reception network. As you know, I had no jurisdiction in the Maximilian Park, but we won't be discussing that now. Such visits would not be allowed, by the way. The training that is provided for the staff I do not give them, that training is given by people who know more about it than I do about recognizing signs of radicalisation and how to respond to it. It concerns possible signs from both residents and visitors. This training is offered to more than 900 people. We are working on this. That is a good thing and it is necessary. I believe in the first-line effect, as in the Netherlands. Have the social assistants and the people in the field do the alert. Let them look out, for they are the ones who work in the centers every day and can see most easily whether someone is starting to isolate themselves or start to say radical things. Visits to the reception centres are permitted. Organisations wishing to visit the reception centre should be allowed to do so. There is no exhaustive list of exclusion criteria, but it is clear that organisations suspected of being extremist will be denied access to the reception centre. Visitors wishing to visit individual residents must identify themselves at the reception and only get access if the person concerned wishes to see them, which is not always the case, but usually so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, I know that the Maximilian Park was not under your jurisdiction, but the fact that it was there means that it is active not only in the Netherlands but also in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u34	There were many organisations active there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u35	Apparently, it was about very obscure organizations. Hence my justified fear that they will not only use the Dutch asylum centres but also the asylum centres here to recruit. Then I have one more question. You say that permission must be given to visit the asylum centre and that the person who wishes to visit must also agree to the visit. Is that merely an identification or do those who make this identification, I know it is not about police officers who are authorised to do so, do they have a list of names or do they have information about persons that they certainly cannot allow, who are suspects or, for example, on a list of suspected Muslim extremists? Do these people get input to do an I.D. that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u36	I have to find out how that is right, there are lists of organizations. An organisation must ask permission to visit, an identification is being made but these people are of course not policemen or people of state security; they do not have a database of hundreds of organisations or of people who are potentially dangerous. That information is not simply shared, it is not easy. I understand your question and I'll have it checked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u37	Is there, however, an automatism? They themselves are not empowered to make an identification in this way, but they can pass the names on to those who are empowered to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u38	Yes, but if there are real suspicions that there are people there for, let's say, the wrong reasons, then that will be passed on. This has already happened in the past, and it has already produced results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u40	Good morning, Secretary of State, on January 2, you issued a circular with your colleague Minister of the Interior to amend an April 2003 circular that had never been really applied since. It concerns measures to be taken by the police in the event of the removal of families with children under 18 years of age from school. It's a delicate subject. The new text hardens these conditions. For example, the old directive called for the police not to intervene in the exit of courses; the new directive deletes this recommendation. It now asks not to intervene during periods of education in the broad sense, but "before" or "after". The general principles of the 2003 directive explained how traumatic a police intervention in school could be for the child: "It is recommended not to wait for a child to leave school. This could only be allowed if the child is in danger of being abandoned or if his or her parents are no longer able to wait for him or her at home." Hence my questions: Could you please explain the reasons why you want to update this circular, 16 years after it was published, even though it had never been applied? Are these tightening measures aimed at drastically increasing, in the coming weeks, the number of removal measures for minors currently attending Belgian schools? Could you tell me the number of minors attending school in Belgium who were the subject of an expulsion procedure as provided for in the circular of April 2003 and January 2016 in 2013, 2014 and 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u41	Mr President, honourable Member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The first objective of amending the circular is certainly not to treat families with children in school more strictly, on the contrary! This circular aims to preserve the periods of teaching, including the journey to and from school, from possible police intervention. That is precisely the opposite of what you say. There has been one case in Flanders where the father of one or two children is taken by the police on a bus on the way to school. The circular states that the police cannot intercept during school, "schooltijd" in Dutch. A discussion took place, what does the "schooltijd" cover? When does he start? When you take the bus to school or when the school bell rings? The aim is to clarify this discussion and to exclude the possibility of police intervention during the "schooltijd" to catch illegal residents. On the contrary, what we are doing right now is expanding this schooltijd period or clarifying this definition. Previously, any family in illegal residence could be subject to removal. The Office also makes every effort to ensure that families staying illegally stay at a private address and cooperate on their departure by setting up a coaching. If this attempt fails, a forced removal may be carried out. The Agency does not keep separate statistics on the number of children under schooled who are far away. However, I can communicate to you the number of illegal families with school children who stayed in residential housing between 2013 and 2015 for the purpose of remoteness. In 2013, 95 illegal families were maintained. In 2014, this number was 117 and in 2015, 60 illegal families stayed in the homes planned for their repatriation. They are called turtelhuisjes because of the coaching projects initiated by Mrs Turtelboom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and for clarifying the ambition of expanding school periods. I understand the objective better. On the substance, of course, remoteness is always painful for anyone, especially for children in school. It would be for the Greens to at least exempt school children from expulsion measures. In this regard, our views differ fundamentally. Obviously, repatriation for children is traumatic and not likely to give them the opportunity to live on our soil and to attend school.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u43	Questions Nos 8699 and 8700 by Mr Wouter De Vriendt are converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr Ducarme's 8730 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, I have received an answer from you to my question about the number of incidents in asylum centres until December 2015. These are 171 incidents, only in the federal asylum centres, 28 of which are serious. From the interplay that has just been held, I understand that you now have more recent figures. You do not need to repeat them now, but if I can receive them in writing, I will certainly look at them with interest. I have just heard you say that it is not the intention to quote only figures from the Fedasil infrastructure centres. You are working on a central registration system to list this also in all other asylum centres and in the LOIS, and I think that is right. Mr Secretary of State, my supplementary questions to what you have just answered to the question are as follows. Can you divide up the incidents, which you have already given the figures, according to the nature of the facts? Is there any clarity as to whether, for example, incidents are related to radicalisation? What are the causes of the fights? For example, with us in Dendermonde there are 144 minor asylum seekers. A stolen cell phone could be the reason for a massive fight. That is why I ask you to split up the incidents according to the nature of the facts. What action has been taken on these incidents and on the criminal offences relating to the status and asylum applications of the persons concerned? I would like to ask an additional question in addition to the answer you have just given on the central registration system. When do you think this will come into effect? Is this registration going to take place from the moment the system is in operation, or will we be able to get the figures from the other asylum centres last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u45	A stolen cell phone is a serious fact. Sometimes it's about a ping-pong game. The figures were applicable for the whole year 2015, including December. That was indeed not entirely clear. The answer to your second question is no. These figures are not available for the entire collection network. However, I would like to point out that Fedasil is currently working on a central registration and follow-up system for the incidents of the entire reception network. However, Fedasil centralises the registration of incidents with an impact on its staff. That is a legal obligation for the prevention consultant. Therefore, the current available statistics only cover incidents with an impact on staff within the 171 reception centres that Fedasil manages. What can that be about? It's always an incident with a staff member plus an asylum seeker. For example, if a staff member falls down the stairs and breaks a foot, that doesn't count. It is therefore a question of fighting, fighting or serious disputes involving both a staff member and an asylum seeker. There are no formal criteria for determining serious facts. When a police intervention or hospitalisation is involved, it is certainly catalogued as a serious fact. The registration for all centres will normally be completed in April, so we are working on it. As I have said before, I think it is important that we communicate correctly about incidents in asylum centres. There must be no doubt that we would hide things or cover them up. I myself am also mayor of a municipality with many asylum seekers on its territory. It is very important to be clear about the number of incidents. That's convenient, by the way. If there are police involved, it will come out and people in the village will talk about it anyway. Then it is better to simply explain in full transparency what happened. Honesty usually takes the longest. That is certainly the case in this area. Otherwise, things can sometimes be blown up or seen in the wrong proportions. We must not give the impression that we want to remain silent about incidents, on the contrary, we must explain what happened. The population is wise enough to know how to interpret things and draw the right conclusions. Anyone will be able to make that up for themselves. We're grown-ups, aren't we? I hope that this will be up and running in April and that I will be able to give you monthly figures next year, including for the Red Cross centres on incidents. Of course, incidents are categorized as well, because of course there is a big difference between an accident, say someone who gets hurt in the kitchen cooking, and a fight where three people have to go to the hospital. I've asked you several times and Fedasil is working on it. With regard to the reception centres managed by Fedasil, we are currently counting 33 incidents, of which 14 with police intervention until the end of February. It's mostly about fights and/or fights. As mentioned earlier, these are not always criminal offences, but the whole of incidents, mostly caused by quarrels or aggressive behavior of some residents. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons and not the Minister or his authorised representative shall be empowered to take a decision on asylum. If facts of public order are committed or an asylum seeker is a danger to national security, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons shall be informed accordingly. This is a standard procedure that has been optimised in recent months. It shall decide, independently and on the basis of the information at its disposal, taking into account the facts or the danger to national security, whether or not to grant refugee status or subsidiary protection status or to withdraw that status. That was the debate we had during the legislative amendment that this Chamber approved by a large majority in July. That was an interesting parliamentary debate. So that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u46	I would like to interrupt for a moment, because Mr Metsu is right to point out that this question has the same content as the question under point 32. Mrs Pas had tabled a question on abuses committed by asylum seekers and Mr Metsu on incidents in asylum centres. If we can, we'll link those cases to this. You do not have to ask the questions all over again, because much of the answers have perhaps already been given. Take out what you haven't heard in the answer and add it to it. Then we will give the Secretary of State the opportunity to add the relevant elements from the answers prepared for item 32. So we will actually merge the questions here, although they were not so on the agenda. I would like to draw the attention of the cabinet to dealing with this very carefully. If there are points that can be merged, it is better to put them together as well. That's a remark I've already heard. Take them away for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u47	Who brings these questions together? Is that us? I think that's up to the committee. The decision to merge questions does not lie with the cabinet. Mr President, we will keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u48	Mr President, are these points 31 and 32? They're of the same mind. One question is quite general, the other deals with a specific case in Broechem. It might be the easiest thing to do to separate it later. Mr Metsu's point 44 is entirely the thrust of the question I have just asked. It can now be added and the other debate can be held shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u49	There's a good chance we won't get to item 32.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, the question has already been asked in principle. I have already received part of the answer. I have already asked this question in the past: it involves incidents in the asylum centres. We get a variety of reports about violent incidents, fights, assaults, rapes and so on. I ask my very specific questions. Firstly, how many incidents have already occurred in asylum centres? Secondly, what was the nature of these incidents? Thirdly, how many incidents are related to radicalisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u51	In future, we will keep in mind that we are linking the questions properly or suggesting them to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. There have been 33 incidents, 14 of them with police intervention. There will be a system to better record who, what and how: what incidents, of what nature? These 33 incidents mainly concern fights and fights. I have already said it several times and will repeat it again: the vast majority of asylum seekers behave properly. As Mr Crusnière has just said, there are some tensions. This has to do with a number of factors, and we also see this in other European countries. There has even been a report on these tensions, which I found particularly courageous. In order to ascertain whether what I said was true in the Chamber a month and a half ago, in particular that there is a lot of tension between young Afghans and young Iraqis, a report was made on this matter and it turned out to be not true. It's gonna stay that way. If anything comes in, it'll be reported to the cabinet immediately. I'm pretty well aware of what's going on. With the Syrians, with all due respect, there hasn't actually been a single incident. Well, that's striking, isn't it? If certain Afghans feel that a Syrian young girl must wear a headscarf and some Syrians take up the defense of that girl, they are also involved in a fight, but then one must look at the cause. One must always see everything in perspective in such matters. I'll give you the example of a Syrian father who stands up for his daughter. "You know half the world to yourself," says the proverb. When certain young people think that the father's daughter should necessarily dress differently, that gives a different view of the story. According to the information available to us about the incidents recorded in the federal centres between 2015 and early 2016, the incidents took place were not related to radicalism. Nevertheless, we must not be naive. It is not because there are no radicalist incidents today that they could not occur in the centres. That is why I have instructed a working party on Radicalism to be set up. It is founded and does a good job. You're aware of that. You have already asked several questions about it. As a result of the working group, Fedasil provides for both a procedure and a training of staff to identify and identify any signs of radicalisation in the reception network. However, that procedure differs from the procedure for recording all incidents, since these are two different cases. Radicalism can be an incident, but of course not all incidents have to do with radicalism. Does this mean that there are no elements or signals of radicalism throughout the reception network? That is not the case. I'm talking about the Fedasil centers. There have already been incidents, which has already been in the newspaper. There is even a person locked up in prison who is suspected of having been at least an IS warrior or in any case is-sympathetic. It is a case in Wallonia, on which I even have another question. However, this is a case in a centre of la Croix Rouge and not of Fedasil. Have there been any such alerts? The answer is yes. Are they being closely followed? The answer is yes, too. If you believe that our social assistants in the centres have no eye for these signals and want to wipe everything under the mat, you are wrong. They also signal the cases and are really working on them, just like a lot of fellow residents. After all, the vast majority of refugees should know nothing about IS, but nothing at all. I would like to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u52	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Indeed, there is an urgent need for an overall picture. The incidents and figures you mention are only for the centres covered by the Fedasil infrastructure. These centres are the minority. You're talking about 14 police interventions. I will quote the example of the Abbey School in Dendermonde once again. In three months there have been nine police interventions. This will give the statistics a very different and realistic picture. You reply that the system will normally be in operation in April 2016. Will registration take place from that moment on, or can we request figures from the period before April 2016? In other words, will the past be included in the statistics of the non-Fedasil centres, or will you only register as of April 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u53	It is somewhat surprising that there have been no incidents with Syrians. That's new to me, too. Thank you for that information. I didn't quite understand how much time those 33 incidents took place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u54	Since early this year, until February 23rd.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u55	So the last two months. I don't have any additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u56	Very briefly, what exactly will be registered, we have yet to discuss. A proposal will be made, and we will discuss it in my cabinet. The registration will go back in the past, I don't know. I don't think so, because some of the centres don't keep track of that right now. Registration will be standardised from April, I think, but I say that under reserve. About Dendermonde briefly this. I've requested an evaluation from Dendermonde, and I'll get it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u57	For the record, I would like to know until what time the Secretary of State can stay, because on the agenda is until 12.30 p.m. Until 13:00, Mr Secretary of State? I want to make sure that the people who are here can still ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u58	Mr President, as regards the formal organisation of work, this part of the committee ends at 12.30 p.m. As there are 52 points, I was wondering if this part could be extended so that colleagues present could at least ask the few remaining questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u59	I suggest that those who are here can still ask their question. We will take until 13:00. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 8762 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, Austria has announced that it will apply a limit to the number of refugees it wants to receive this year. In 2015, 90 000 asylum seekers were received in Austria, which is particularly high in relation to the number of inhabitants. That is why the government has decided that it will not receive more than 130 000 refugees in the next four years. They spread this as follows: 37 500 in 2016, 35 000 in 2017, 30 000 in 2018 and 25 000 in 2019. The aim is to have a deterrent effect on potential asylum seekers, and I believe that this is the most important thing: to give Europe a signal that the current situation in which each country takes action for itself is no longer sustainable. It is not yet clear how this proposal will be worked out in practice and whether it will pass the legal test. The idea of an upper limit, a quota actually, was already put forward in Germany by the CSU. I would have liked to know your position on this and your attitude towards Austria and Germany at the next European summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u61	Mrs Smeyers, the Austrian Government has indeed announced its intention to set an upper limit on the number of refugees it intends to receive in the coming years. In concrete terms, Austria registers up to 80 new asylum applications per day and allows up to 3 200 people to travel through its territory. During the last Justice and Foreign and Home Affairs Council last week, there was a strong debate on the subject. Austria has made it clear that it is keeping the quota. It also organised a separate meeting with the countries of the Western Balkans on border surveillance cooperation prior to the JHA Council. All this has led to a drastic reduction in the number of migrants on the Balkan route, as you have also read. It is clear that time is running out in Europe. Now that spring is approaching, the flow of refugees is expected to return to full force. The forthcoming summit with Turkey on 7 March will be a crucial moment. Several European countries have already indicated that it is the last chance to reach a common European solution. Otherwise, alongside Austria, other countries will also have to take unilateral measures. However, let us wait for the summit on 7 March and then look at it in peace. I myself spoke at the JHA Council last Thursday, not about Austria itself, but mainly about Greece and Turkey. Then, as I have just said, the Greek Minister admitted for the first time that, in his view, Turkey is a safe third country and that immediate reading should be possible. Asylum applications must be made in Greece. Asylum seekers cannot choose the country of asylum themselves. However, I did not say anything about the Austrian quota.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, we had already heard some of your comments through the media. You make it very clear that the summit on 7 March is the last chance for Europe to adopt a shared or broad-based position. After all, every country is setting up more and more spines. It is a struggle for most or the longest spines, which is somewhat understandable to those countries and from the Department of Home Affairs and Migration of those countries. However, that does not go far enough for Europe. For a long time now, the left and right have been calling for a European policy on asylum and migration. This must be possible in the long term and such a crisis is always an opportunity to make progress in this respect, but there will not be any such crisis tomorrow. A common position on the number of asylum seekers to be received should nevertheless be possible in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u63	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you again about your attitude at the next European summit. Perhaps your answer will be in the same line as before. From different angles we hear stories about the distressing conditions that refugees are experiencing on their way to Western Europe in the winter weather. Fortunately, the weather is getting better, which may then be accompanied by a higher inflow. At the same time, it can also be seen that more and more countries, such as Austria, are taking measures in the hope of keeping some control over the number of asylum seekers applying for asylum in their country. We have already talked about Austria. Slovenia only allows refugees who wish to move on, which is not immediately evidence of European solidarity. Even Germany is now coming back to Wir's policy. The situation is untenable. Each country looks at the situation through its own glasses. Very little is being looked through the European glasses. The Dutch Prime Minister, Rutte, also said this when the EU Presidency was presented. Although I believe that your answer will be in the same vein, I would like to ask you again about your attitude at the European summit on 7 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, the European summit is, of course, intended for the Heads of Government. You probably mean the European Council of 10 March. The Turkish Prime Minister will also be present at the European summit. You must, of course, ask our Prime Minister about Belgium's attitude. The file will be discussed in the government's bosom for the next few hours and days anyway. There will also be a meeting of the European Council next week. More and more Member States are taking national measures to control the influx, partly because the European solution, in particular the hotspot and relocation system, is not the expected effect for the time being. At the same time, it should be noted that secondary flows of migrants from Greece do not decrease. At the European Council on 25 February it became clear that the situation had reached a critical point. In Scandinavia, the influx has declined very much due to successive border controls. Austria has introduced a quota, and the countries of the Western Balkans only allow a few hundred people to go through every day. The EU/Turkey Summit on 7 March is seen by many countries as the ultimate deadline for a European solution, if not other countries will also resort to unilateral solutions. As I said in the previous question, such a situation will no longer be unthinkable in Belgium. It is clear that the Scandinavian border controls and the Austrian quota leave only three major destination countries, in particular Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. It is, of course, completely impossible for these three countries to bear the full burden. That is what you hear in Germany and in the Netherlands. In order to reach a European solution, I believe that the following elements are crucial. Effective external border checks should be carried out. This also means denying access to the European Union to persons who do not meet the entry conditions and who do not apply for asylum and who are effectively driven back, as stated in the Aliens Act, in the European Asylum Acquis and in the European Asylum Procedure Directive. The hotspots at the external borders need to function much better. This means once again that persons who do not comply with the entry conditions and do not apply for asylum are effectively returned. At the same time, provision should be made for a well-developed reception system in the countries on the external border and a well-functioning relocation system that is much wider than the current plans, so that asylum seekers can be distributed fairly within the European Union. It is extremely important that each Member State and the EU authorities take up their responsibilities as much as possible. It must also be clear that, given the current massive influx, an overall programme of a completely different dimension from what is currently the case must be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u65	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I share your view that a common European position is imperative. After all, it is going to be a bid, which is understandable, by the way. The spines are set up. This has been the case in Scandinavia for some time now and in the various Balkan countries. As you rightly say, those who are waiting for a European position will suffer. I do hope that it will not be Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. It would have a perverse effect. If a common position is reached, if we can adopt a moderate European position where a redistribution, relocation and distribution plan can be agreed, we will have a fairer policy than is the case at present. What's new to me is that those hotspots don't have the expected effect. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u66	Not new, but I expected more. There will indeed need to be even more recourse to better control of our external borders and proper reception in the region. Since Turkey is becoming more and more official and recognized by everyone as a safe country...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u67	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u68	...we must invest from Europe in a humane and qualitative reception in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt converted 8806 into a written question. Questions Nos 8867 and 8868 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u70	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is no longer entirely relevant, but it seems to me that it deserves to be asked and answered. The distribution plan has been finalized. By the time I introduced the question at the end of January, letters had been sent to the various cities, municipalities and CPAS, warning them of the number of places they might have to set up. There were still some questions. You have decided quotas per municipality, taking into account certain elements such as the number of inhabitants, the number of places already created by Fedasil, the number of places of ILA and other criteria. Five thousand places are to be opened in the course of 2016. My question is about something that I don't know if it has been taken into consideration – I have the impression that it is not. You probably know that CPAS opened some of their night shelters for asylum seekers. But I did not see in the Royal Distribution Order, or in the allocation plan, that these night shelters used as temporary reception places were taken into consideration. Especially since the CPAS, when they are going to receive them on a temporary basis, will still have to welcome them in ILA. Secretary of State, can you tell me whether this criterion has been taken into account or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, did the plan approved last Friday change the criteria and method of calculation agreed at the Council of Ministers in December? Are we now taking into account the efforts made by the municipal authorities in the meantime? Have we taken into account the efforts that have been made since September, since the outbreak of the crisis and since an appeal has been made to the municipal authorities to create places, or have we only taken into account the efforts that have been made since the letter of indicative figures has been sent out? Do we only take into account the places created since December? I think it would be better to take into account the voluntary efforts of the municipalities from the moment the government asked them to do so. According to the planned timing, the implementation followed by 1 May at the latest. Is it true that we would now have time until November to implement the plan? Doesn't that give you too much time? Can the timing be brought forward? What's the timing? In the meantime, I know from the newspapers that sanctions of EUR 75 would be imposed on municipal authorities that do not comply, but you still saw a number of opportunities for escape. Which one? What are the possible remedies? Will the planned 5 000 reception places be sufficient? I know that you do not have a glass ball, but it is to be expected that we will also have a serious influx this year. It is also necessary to take into account collective centres, including in Mol, where there are now emergency shelters, which are to be closed soon and for which alternatives are therefore needed. If we take into account the holiday centres and youth centres to be released back to the public, I wonder whether we will be able to find those 5 000 places and whether there are other alternatives. The collective centres often include families with children. Those children take classes in Flanders in reception classes for foreign-speaking newcomers. In Wallonia, children will probably follow something similar. The problem that has been pointed out to me is that sometimes a family has to move suddenly, from one region to another, from Flanders to Wallonia. Mr Secretary of State, I have a request for you. I would ask you to take into account children's school careers in the future. If children are in a school for three or four months, it is not good to transfer a family to another centre and certainly not to another language area. I heard from a family that was transferred from Antwerp to Florennes. I understand that sometimes disciplinary measures are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u72	Does that have anything to do with the dispersal plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u73	No, that has nothing to do with the dispersal plan. I forwarded my question on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u74	The subject of your question is the distribution plan, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u75	Let us stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, this can also be found in the distribution plan. My question is not to move children. Make sure that children can attend the same school as much as possible or that, if a transfer is required, this can be done at least in the same language area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u77	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I had introduced this question to learn more about the royal decree which was to implement the compulsory distribution plan in the 589 communes of the country. This decision was approved by the Council of Ministers last Friday. The municipalities had received two letters in November and December. You co-signed a first letter with your colleague Mr Borsus, dated 12 November 2015, to raise awareness among the mayors and presidents of CPAS about the significant increase in refugees in our country. This letter involved collaboration and additional places in the ALI. I think that a number of municipalities, perhaps 250 or more, spontaneously responded to this first call. You then sent a second letter, still co-signed with Mr Borsus, which was not dated. You announced in it a plan of distribution of 5,000 new places, compulsory and proportional distribution. In this letter, you detailed the criteria that led to the determination of the precise number of persons to be accommodated. You were referring to a website which shows, for information purposes, how many refugees will be assigned to each of the municipalities. It was important to release this royal decree. Since mid-December, to my knowledge, the municipalities have not received any further information. I assume that information and communication will take place now, after the decision of the Council of Ministers. Sudpresse had released a double-page infographic, with the country map and the number of refugees per commune. But since then, there has been no official information. Mr Secretary of State, my first question concerns the legal basis. For the sake of clarity, is it indeed Article 57ter/1 of the CPAS Act? Are we talking about a physical distribution? Of course, there is no reference address. This law of 8 May 2013, adopted under the previous legislature, allowed for the adoption of this decree, which included a compulsory distribution plan per municipality. The issue of funding standards is very relevant to municipalities. What are the resources available for this funding? What will be the standards of supervision for refugees? Will these standards be the same as for the private sector, both in terms of supervision and funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, as I understand it, last Friday the government approved the implementation of the compulsory distribution plan for asylum seekers. I have a number of questions for you. When do you expect the Royal Decree to be published in the Belgian Official Journal, so that the plan can be implemented effectively? 5 000 places are planned. Is that enough? That question was asked a moment ago. Is it true that there is a difference between the number of places notified and the actual number? How many places are effective? Can you give a list of where the temporary places are located and when they will be closed? How will you organize the outflow? On the basis of which infringements are sanctioned? With each breach, or only after repeated infringements? Which criteria should be met by the reception centres? Is it about all forms of shelter? Finally, I would like to make a comment. There is a tendency to laugh at Mrs Merkel because she once said that she was going to buy tie. I don't understand why people aren't looking at that any better. I myself understand under that statement that we can handle it, that we can manage it. I would like to call for a number of things to be done at both European and national level at the same time. Mrs Smeyers has just gone into this in detail. We are talking about border controls, hotspots, and respect for the Dublin regulation, where someone is applying for asylum in the first country where he arrives. All that needs to be managed properly. This sends out the signal that it is under control. It's the powerlessness that drives people into the closet. Although there is often a laugh with Mrs Merkel, I notice that a Wir purchase tie policy is being pursued here too; we are dealing with it. Here too, measures are being developed to control the situation and to deal with it properly. You did that about asylum seekers. As you know, I would like to make the same plea on integration. I know that you are not the final responsibility for this, but that you are working with the partners of the other governments. I want the same approach to integration policy to be adopted, otherwise it will become a sore spot in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of questions about the 5 000 asylum seekers in the approved distribution plan. Can you give an update on the actual distribution at present? Has a deadline been set for all reception points to be made available? Filling out a place is just one aspect, opening up the place effectively and signing up to Fedasil is another. I assume that no changes have been made to the criteria in relation to the government's agreement in principle, which you had in December, except, if necessary, on the basis of efforts already made by various cities and municipalities, such as St Nicholas, I think I understand. Is the target of 5 000 places in the municipalities sufficient in the long term? Do you consider a possible or necessary expansion of capacity? How do you see the follow-up when the temporary reception centres will close, as planned? Is there a scenario for the reception of asylum seekers afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u80	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I thought that because of the number of questions on this subject, we were going to have an exchange of views, but the late hour means that we probably want to press ahead. That is a bit of a shame in relation to this vital issue. Once it is not customary, I would like here to welcome the positive decision of the government. My principle is simple: we cannot demand, as we have done, European coordination on the Calais case and, in Belgium, we cannot use this division. In my view, solidarity is at a double level. Your distribution plan is at national level, but solidarity is also developing at European level. Nevertheless, despite the fine declarations on the need for cooperation, the dismantling of the camp in Calais shows that Belgium and France have difficulty talking to each other – the least we can say. On many occasions, we have emphasized the importance of this allocation plan. It is essential that everyone can contribute to the management of what is called "the crisis". You have matched this programme with sanctions. Some municipalities are recalcitrant. Ten of them reportedly made a request for further information. What are the objections raised? Have you ever had an opportunity to answer that question? How will local authorities be accompanied in the implementation of this plan? As I said to you, we agree on the principle, but some communes – which are not of bad will – face technical or material impossibility. Is an assessment planned, particularly with regard to the evolution of the number of asylum applications and the occupancy rate of reception centres? The Government recalled the principle of solidarity at the national level. I expect that this same principle will be applied at European level, with sanctions if necessary. Everyone's in the same boat. It is important for everyone to be able to swim in the same direction. This issue is of such importance that it requires that we all contribute. Most of us are local agents. It has been almost fifteen years since a 280-seat asylum-seekers' centre existed in my municipality. If, at first, fear or fear have been expressed by the population, I can assure you that today this centre brings real added value to the whole municipality, which has 12,000 inhabitants. It allows jobs to be retained in communal education. In addition, an associative fabric and strong links have been created between the municipality and the centre. In each municipality, this contribution, if intelligently thought out, is a positive thing. These are not angelic speeches, it is a real reality on the ground that we have been experimenting in our commune for fifteen years. In addition to the cultural and social enrichment this brings, this is the very small contribution that each local authority can make in this extremely difficult issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u81	Mrs Lanjri, we only have time until 1 p.m. You wanted to ask a very specific question very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u82	Mr President, Minister, I just wanted to say that, of course, I know that the criteria themselves have not changed. However, my question was about the method of calculation, precisely to check whether the efforts made by the municipalities since September 2015 have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u83	All the questions have been asked. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u84	Mr Massin, no, only the existing reception places which have been set up in the context of the application of the host law of 12 January 2007 will be taken into account. In concrete terms, these are all reception places for reception facilities run by Fedasil or one of its host partners, the local CPAS initiative (ILA), the Red Cross Centre, private operators, etc. I did not know that municipalities or towns had made homeless beds available to asylum seekers. Perhaps this is the case in Brussels. If you have more precise information about the number of places, etc., we could discuss it. But normally that's not the case. Then I come to the distribution plan, which was cited by Mrs Lanjri and some other speakers. The legal basis is this article you mentioned, Mr. Delizée. The meaning of this is very clear: it is the physical distribution of asylum seekers. What is counted? These are the efforts of municipalities, five months before entry into force of the distribution plan. When it will enter into force, of course, I do not know yet. This will depend on the time taken by the Council of State to formulate the opinion. That will also depend on the decision of the Council of Ministers. And that will depend on the re-ordering in the Council of Ministers and the publication in the Belgian Official Journal. If we use a standard deadline, the introduction on 1 May will be absolutely feasible. Don't pin me on that, but that's seen by all the experts as a viable starting date. Five months before 1 May, that means all the places created from 1 December. We made a call on 17 November. The second appeal was launched on 17 November. Since 1 December, seats have accounted for 100 per cent. Those other places, which were created for this purpose, naturally also count in the calculation method, given that the parameter of the number of reception places in a municipality counts at 30% in the calculation of the allocation. This includes everything from before 1 December, of course. But everything after 1 December counts for 100 %. I'm declaring myself. Municipality X must realize eight places, received a call on 17 November to make an extra effort. The municipality started on 17 November, the lease was concluded in the middle of December, because that is not possible in two weeks, that is not realistic, and two places were created. On 18 December that municipality received a letter with the indicative figure of eight, immediately started to seek additional places, like many municipalities at the moment. One hundred and thirty-one municipalities have already gone into it and have already created places since the letter that was sent on 17 December, in total for 782 places. So a lot of municipalities were immediately set in motion. These places will then be counted down again, but at 100 %. So Municipality X received a letter with a voluntary call on 17 November, was launched at the beginning of December, with a contract for two places. A letter came in mid-December that there should be eight, so six more have to be added. On 1 March a new lease was followed for four places. Then they have to create two more and before that they have time until six months after activation, which is on May 1st, so they have time until November 1st to realize that. If they have created places before 1 December, they get another month, until 1 December to create those places. It might sound complicated. This was very well communicated with the VVSG and with the Walloon and Brussels counterparts of the VVSG. I'm sure you know that. That has been handled in a good way and so far they have been fully involved in that story. Hardly any letters came back after that letter with the indicative figure, only about ten letters. About 10 letters were sent to my office and asked for further explanations. We responded. Of course, it is necessary to disseminate new information on the website of the Union of Cities and Municipalities and CPAS, as doubts remain in the head of the mayors and presidents of CPAS. When I open places, it's already 100 per cent, but it's not clear for all the municipalities. Nevertheless, it was specified black on white in the letter. I can therefore only confirm once again at this committee meeting that all the places that are currently being opened can be deducted at 100% from the number of places that will be imposed under the distribution plan. When it comes into force on 1 May, I will, of course, immediately send a letter containing the final figures. An indicative figure has now been given. The letter also states that it is now an indicative figure that should not be fixed, but the number will not change fundamentally. I mean, anyone who has to provide eight shelters will not suddenly have to provide twenty places, but maybe seven, nine or ten. The indicators are fairly stable, so we'll get about the indicator figure, but don't shoot me if the number goes from eight to ten. It is an indicative letter which I put to you on the clear question from Parliament, because it was said during the debate in December that I should inform the municipalities. The government needs to inform CPAS and municipalities now. You're talking about the distribution plan. The letter was sent on 17 December. But it was only for information. The figures given were indicative. These were estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u85	So you will now send new letters with the official figures to all the municipalities, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u86	For the government, the important thing is to determine when the new photo will be taken. The latter must indeed be taken, but it must be taken at the time of activation of the distribution plan. Indeed, let us take the case where the photo is made today, if seats are opened tomorrow, we will face a problem of accuracy. The photo must be taken at a specific moment, because it has an influence on the distribution. For example, communes where large centres will be opened before 1 May may be exempt. It is clear that we must take into account all factors. That's why we can only take a photo when we activate the distribution plan. As far as sanctions are concerned, discussions have been concluded. Municipalities and CPAS are granted a period of six months after activation or even seven months. For municipalities or CPAS that have not succeeded, they still have the possibility to send a letter to Fedasil to justify themselves. For example, they had a lease but the owner went bankrupt, etc. Certain contingencies must always be taken into account. A municipality can still say that it has done everything in its power, but has not succeeded in its design and therefore requires extra time to get things done. It's possible. However, if Fedasil finds that it is a matter of not wanting rather than not being able to do so, then the municipality or OCMW will be fined twice a day per non-offered place. That's about 75 euros a day. If the municipality does not pay the fine, a mechanism will enter into force whereby, although we do not go to court, we involve the funds donated by the federal government to the municipality concerned. How this will be worked out in concrete terms still needs to be discussed and laid down in an RB. For that we still have the time until the beginning of 2017. We're working on that. It's a sensitive point. There are discussions about this, including the way things are done. We're working on that. The lyrics will be round by the summer. That is still on time, because that is the ultimate consequence for a congregation that continues to refuse decisively. The distribution plan is about 5 000, with possible discs of 1 000 extra. This figure of 5 000 was also communicated to the municipalities. Of course, it also depends on the evolution of the situation, but that is the figure at the moment. I think I've already answered a lot of questions. Mrs Lanjri, I will have the transfer checked within the same language area. We match as much as we can. Maybe it didn't work out in a certain case. We need to look at this transfer, because it can indeed be annoying, especially for the education of the children concerned. A different language and education system are indeed not ideal. We'll look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u87	There were questions about funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u88	It's the same as ILA funding. There's already 9,000 ILAs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u89	What is the amount for memory? 38 euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u90	It depends: when it's a MENA place, it's more. And when it's a place suitable for the care of people with disabilities, it's even more. It's the same rate as now. You can see it on Fedasil's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u91	Do I understand the following, Mr Secretary of State? You have said that the seats will count until five months before the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u92	100 %. All places count.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u93	We're assuming that normally this should work. The distribution plan will be complete on 1 May. But if for some reason that is only three months later, then does this mean that the efforts of December, January and February do not count?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u94	No, the agreement is that the efforts will count from 1 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u95	Anyway? Then the five-month period isn't necessary, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u96	Then the five-month period becomes one of eight months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u97	So you change the number of months. You will therefore take into account the efforts made from 1 December. That's clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u98	That's the political deal. I think I'm done. I have to go on a work visit to Ghent, where I certainly don't want to be late.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u99	Mr President, I am taking my time, however brief it may be! With regard to the allocation plan, we agree with this decision. We've been asking for it since last August. In reality, the law of 8 May 2013 allows the taking of this royal decree because it was already the idea at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u100	(...) I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u101	It is necessary in view of the influx of refugees and the situation on the ground. We therefore join the government on this point. It took a little time because it was complicated. I have no difficulty with the criteria and their weighting. Because it's complex, I'll read the order again to make sure I understand. I insist on information from the municipalities, even if it is generally and even if they are told that the photo and the subsequent calculation will probably arrive on 1 May 2016 because we are waiting for information on the step that has just been taken. As far as sanctions are concerned, you confirm that Fedasil will make the decision. It will be an administrative decision that will not go back to the government. It will not be a political decision, so that there is no suspicion depending on colour, majority or mayor. It will be a decision based on the justifications that will be given or not on objective basis. That is the way to understand it. As far as funding is concerned, I will come back to this on another question, but it would appear that ILA places are financed at a lower rate than in private ones. I think that private places go back to 44 euros, or even more in some cases. This amounts to more than 38 euros per refugee. There is a difference and I do not see what can justify that the necessary supervision and reception costs more or less in one case or the other. Do you confirm that, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u102	I'll put it in Dutch, that's clearer. They're running a tender. They sign in at a certain daily price. That's the way it always works when it comes to tenders. That the budget Fedasil, the Red Cross and so on, is often higher, I find very remarkable. Anyway, a tender has certain rules. If you are willing to do something, you must grant it according to the rules in force. But if you ask me if I expected the private sector to be cheaper, my answer is that I did indeed expect it to be. At present, however, this does not appear to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u103	Mr President, I shall come back to that on another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u104	Mr President, I propose that we resume the discussion on this subject later. It's much more complex than just the price. That's another story. I would like to make another suggestion about the penalties. What's very important to me is that it's not about pennies, it's that every municipality does its part. This has to do with psychological integration. One has to pay attention to the fact that a municipality I have experienced this in the past can charge ten people financially, but can accommodate them in another municipality. That city won't be sanctioned. However, it is also about the presence in a municipality and everything that comes with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u105	I can't do that right now. After all, it is now a physical spread.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u106	Mr Secretary of State, it is good that you have made it clear that the places that have already been created count fully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u107	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u108	That was two months ago. I'm sure it's a few of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u109	Three.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u110	Three, in fact. I've heard from different angles, I'm also part of the VVSG's statement that there was uncertainty about the scheme. You yourself say that it might be good to dot the 'I' in this matter again. After all, the number will quickly rise, now that there is clarity on the issue, which is only good for your policy and the distribution plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u111	There will be a clear message on the websites of the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u112	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. We will return to him in the coming weeks for practical implementation and possible reluctance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic353x.u113	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas's 9214 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas' 9215, initially combined with a question from Mr Metsu, has also been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 9780 by Mrs Monica De Coninck has been withdrawn.
