ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u1	Question No 11784 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u2	Mr. President, Minister, the government has taken important steps in the fight against terrorism. Is it worth recalling that, at present, more than 100 detainees are incarcerated for terrorist acts? This number has doubled in just one year. Among the measures taken, the establishment of special isolation zones within prisons for persons who have committed or participated in terrorist attacks, known as DERADEX. If I am not mistaken, 40 such places are currently operational. In addition to this specific environment of detention, I would like to have information from you on the conditions of detention of these persons. During the detention in Belgium of Salah Abdeslam, the press published statements from his relatives, publicly indicating what could have been exchanged between them in the prison. Public and published statements did not appear in connection with the detention of Mohamed Abrini or Mehdi Nemmouche, who were also detained in Bruges prison. Minister, could you tell us, however, whether, during visits to these inmates, physical surveillance by officers is carried out on an effective and permanent basis? Are there any restrictions on certain persons who cannot visit these detainees? Do these specific DERADEX areas have specific restrictions at this level? Do any provisions specify the limits on the publicity of statements during interviews and visits to such detainees, particularly in the media? Can you inform us about the development of these DERADEX areas in our prisons? You indicated that two establishments were equipped with such areas. What about the situation to date? Finally, can you tell us what progress has been made in putting the two sections into service in the prisons of Ittre and Hasselt, as well as in the "Extremism" cell and its teams in the prison administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u3	Mr President, Mr Pivin, persons convicted of terrorist acts or suspected of terrorist acts are not subject to permanent physical surveillance. The right of an inmate to receive visits is not absolute. The Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 provides for restrictions in specific cases. Persons who are not close relatives of the detainee may visit him only with the prior authorization of the prison director. The director may issue a refusal if the person concerned cannot justify any legitimate interest or if there are personalized indications that the visit will endanger order or security in or outside the prison. This individual assessment can therefore certainly be applied to inmates in specialized sections. Close relatives and close relatives, such as parents, children and spouses, may also be denied admission to the visit if there are indications that the visit could endanger order or security. Thus, there is no general regime of exception to the right of access of detainees, but the law certainly allows it to be subject to individual restrictions. As for any provisions specifying the limits on the advertising of statements made during visits, there are no such provisions. The specialised sections were opened in mid-April 2016 in Ittre and Hasselt. These two institutions are the only ones with this type of section, but not all radicalized inmates will be transferred to these sections. For this reason satellite teams have also been set up in the prisons of Bruges, Ghent, Saint-Gilles, Lantin and Andenne. They will help us to accommodate inmates after their removal from specialized areas. Section teams and the satellite team can prepare this passage together and follow the evolution very closely. A satellite team consists of a PAS tandem (a psychologist and a social worker) and two directors, all of whom have undergone specialized training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u4	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u5	Question No 11622 by Mr Pivin is transformed into a written question. The same applies to question No 11630 by Mr Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u6	Minister, coordination at European level is a prerequisite for tackling the problem of radicalisation in prisons. Ms Jourová, Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality, recently indicated that the European Regional Development Fund could provide opportunities for investment that would also improve prison infrastructure. The financing of renovation works or the construction of new prisons can also be partly financed by the European Fund for Strategic Investments. In addition, the European Commission has also promoted training and training in prisons through the Grundtvig and Leonardo da Vinci programmes. The European Social Fund can also contribute positively to the social rehabilitation of prisoners. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Do you, in consultation with your colleague responsible for the Buildings Management, examine the possibility of using European funding to improve prison infrastructure, such as through the European Regional Development Fund or the European Strategic Investment Fund? Are prisoners in Belgian prisons using European programmes, such as Grundtvig and Leonardo da Vinci programmes, to encourage lifelong learning? Finally, will there be a European platform to exchange best practices, inspired by the European Radicalisation Awareness Network, so that radicalisation in prisons can be combated more effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u7	Mrs De Wit, on your first and second questions, I can answer that Commissioner Jourová, in a letter to all ministers, mentioned the availability of a number of European funds in the fight against radicalisation in prisons. My cabinet and the Directorate-General for EPI are examining the possibility of using these funds in the future. The Directorate-General of Prisons is currently running one project which is paid for with the European AMIF/ISF Fund. This project focuses on the training of "radicalisation" in prisons and runs from 2016 to 2022. Many training courses, both in the North and in the South region, can be financed through the planned fund. The project is in line with the Action Plan "Tackling radicalisation in prisons" which I launched last year. In addition, there is indeed the Radicalisation Awareness Network, an initiative of the European Commission, in which a working group called "Prison and Probation" was set up and in which experts and specialists exchange the best practices to which you refer. Commissioner Jourová has recently taken the additional initiative to set up a high-level group in the fight against radicalisation in the context of detention and execution of sentences. This working group, which has my full support, constitutes an intermediate level between the group set up in the RAN network and the JHA Council. Finally, the issue of radicalisation in prisons is also discussed in the EuroPris network. This is the network of penitentiary administrations of the European countries, currently chaired by the Director-General of the Belgian penitentiary institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that many European initiatives are being used. I really hope that there is an opportunity to use the infrastructure funds. You also know that our infrastructure needs to be refurbished, and if we were to get some budgetary aid from Europe, this would seem to me to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u9	Mr President, Minister, in August 2015, the Limburg District Council tested a new drug policy at the Pukkelpop Festival. The idea behind this policy is commendable, in particular to discourage the use of drugs by young people. However, in September 2015, the media already reported that the results were inadequate. Three thousand visitors were controlled by a drug dog, 300 visitors were subjected to more extensive control and only 27 people were banished. The container in which drugs could be dropped anonymously contained only 13.2 grams of cannabis and four ecstasy pills. The aim of the renewed approach was to make Justice work faster and to avoid as much administration as possible. Twenty transfer forms were issued, but only one immediate payment could be made due to technical problems with the payment terminal. Soon the new festival season will start and with the results of Pukkelpop 2015 in mind, it is necessary to continue to pursue a sound drug policy. What lessons were learned from the experiment on Pukkelpop? Will the renewed policy be continued and extended to other festivals? If yes, what is being done so that friendly solutions can be dealt with immediately via Bancontact in order to avoid the administrative burden?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u10	First of all, I would like to stress that the current drug policy in Belgium does not tolerate the use in public space. Justice is actively involved in this policy, although within the limits of its resources and capabilities. In the detection and criminal prosecution of drug use, Justice gives priority to problematic use. Behaviour that endangers public health and public security is part of this. We want to prevent young people or other festivalgoers coming into contact with these very harmful products for health for the first time and we want to work in particular as a deterrent. In my opinion, the figures of the predefined actions during Pukkelpop 2015, to which you refer in your question, are more positive than undersized. The clear prior communication may have made many festivalgoers realize that a major music festival is not the place to use drugs or to smuggle them into the festival grounds or the campsite. Of course, the practical problems of collection via the payment terminal can be solved. However, this does not fall within the competence of justice but of my colleague for Security and Home Affairs. Since the up-to-date roundabout on drugs No. 15/2015 replaced the 2003 and 2005 circulars, providing the Public Prosecutor with realistic tools to set priorities. This leaves room for a more specific policy at local level, for example when the King's Attorney considers it appropriate. A stricter policy of punishment for drug use at major events could be part of this. I have not yet received any further information about any wider application to other festivals from the College of Attorney General. However, a tailor-made policy means that we do not have to compare all events with each other. In addition, the safety risk derivatives need to be considered in a wider context. Protection measures against the threat of terrorism must also be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can agree that we should be as dissuasive as possible. I hope that this has also produced results. I also know that we do not have to put all festivals on the same footing. However, I believe that the results were rather inadequate. I'm referring to Pukkelpop. I hope that the instruments provided in the new letter will achieve a better result in the coming festival season.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u12	Minister, it's been a month since our prison guards were on strike. Tensions in both Walloon Brabant and other provinces are gradually reaching their peak. Several incidents (bagars, destruction of sanitary facilities, prisoners who do not want to return to their cells) have already been recorded. The police areas of eastern Walloon Brabant and the Nivelles-Genappe area, concerned by the prisons of Ittre and Nivelles, have been strongly sought in recent days to replace the guards who went on strike. The situation is getting explosive. Tensions between staff who want to work and those who have been on strike for a month are increasing. Within prisons, tension is also at its peak, due to the lack of contacts between prisoners and their families, the hygiene conditions that have become increasingly deplorable since the start of the strike. Minister, I will not ask you about the new protocol proposed this morning. On the other hand, can you tell me how police and/or military reinforcements are coordinated for the Walloon Brabant? How do you assess the situation on a daily basis? Finally, the Nivelles Prison Vigilance Commission has sent you a proposal to grant prisoners a four-month pardon to compensate them for the damage suffered during the strikes. This measure would also save more than EUR 200 million. What is your opinion on this proposal and its feasibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u13	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the local police are in fact at the forefront of police intervention in prisons during strike movements by prison staff. In consultation with the prison management, the local police assess daily the police commitment required for each break of the day. It then determines the staff capacity it can employ on its own staff and forwards, for the remainder, a request for reinforcement to the administrative coordinator director (Dirco) of the judicial district, who then organises the provision of the necessary police reinforcement. Members of the Federal Police Task Force are given priority. A solidarity mechanism is then used between police areas which mortgage part of their capacity for large-scale police operations in other police areas. Given the size and duration of the reinforcements requested, the Commissioner General of the Federal Police requested the support of the army. The current military contingent for this mission is 120 units. These additional forces were distributed to 8 institutions whose structural deficits pose the most difficulties to be filled by the police. This daily exercise is overseen by the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations of the Federal Police, which organises, if necessary, the provision of a reinforcement that a Dirco may not have been able to find within its own judicial district by then requesting this supplement from the Dircos of other boroughs. The cornerstone of this day-to-day exercise is effective coordination between prison directors and their local police. Despite the difficult conditions, both for each other, this collaboration takes place in a positive and effective way in order to deal with this crisis. The Regional Directorates of DG PPE and my Integrated Police Justice TSS liaison officers keep me constantly informed of the situation. As far as the Nivelles Supervisory Committee's proposal for a collective pardon is concerned, I can say that it is not taken into account. Moreover, the calculation that has been made for 12,000 detainees – savings of EUR 200 million – is incorrect and the pardon measure could only be applied to a minority of detainees, i.e. only to persons sentenced definitively and not to persons in pre-trial detention and to persons detained because the latter two categories of persons are not subject to punishment. For convicts, too, the effect would not be complete either. Convicted persons with sentences of more than three years may be released only by a decision of the judiciary, i.e. the enforcement court. A four-month reduction in sentence would only result in some inmates being able to submit their case more quickly to the court, without certainty as to the outcome. Convicted persons with sentences of three years or less and who have a right of residence shall, in principle, carry out their sentences under electronic supervision. Those who do not have a right of residence can now already be released a few months before their eligibility date by repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope that the protocol you put on the table today will indeed meet with the consent of the guards. It will certainly be useful to put an end to this strike. We will pay attention to this and we will have the opportunity to re-examine you. I hope you have put in place the means to respond to their demands. I hear your answer to the Committee on Vigilance and the figures you gave me and the reasons why you do not take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u15	Mr. Chairman, you pointed out that the minister was being questioned again. But it's quite normal! And since our discussions with the minister were sometimes quite virile, I found it important to point out that we had just moved forward and rejoiced. I came here on purpose to tell you, minister, and to take the opportunity to ask you a few additional questions to make sure that we understood each other. Minister, I spare you the history of this case that you are familiar with. After the Council of Ministers on 13 May, you announced the Masterplan III which (new element for the Vervietois) provides for the construction of a 240-seat prison on the site of the former prison of Verviers. You have also announced that the old Lantin prison should be demolished for the reasons we know and the old state of this building, which is not so old. The entire judicial world of Vervieto remains attached to this decision. He is happy about it, he has publicly demonstrated it, and I thank you for that. Nevertheless, I still have some specific questions. I do not see why, at the start of a prison with 50 defendants, we are now only moving towards a prison. This poses a problem for German-speaking prisoners in Verviers under a compulsory bilingualism regime. The Community's problems do not concern only relations between the north and the south! There is also the German-speaking community. I wonder what these inmates are going to be like. Could you also shed some light on a timing, because, between the announcement of the good news and its realization, we already know that even by starting to build today, we would only be operational from 2020, given the time needed for all the work. Could you answer these questions to make concrete progress together, so that this prison can find its place in the centre of Verviers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u16	Minister, I asked you on 28 October 2015 about the construction of the prison in Verviers following the decision of the Council of Ministers to renovate the courthouse. You replied at the time that the Masterplan Prisons III had to be approved by the Council of Ministers and would probably provide for the construction of the prison in Verviers. You kept your word, that's it. I am delighted for the Verviers region, but also for the whole world of justice and the people who are litigants, as well as for their families. It's an important element. On the other hand, on the Lantin side, I also wonder about the prison and the essential works, either demolition, renovation or transfer, in order to try to understand well what will happen to this prison and the house of arrest and the works to be carried out in order to allow a decent life to the detainees. As my colleague Mr Frédéric said, this prison is not old, but it is indeed very degraded. The municipality of Juprelle is home not only to Lantin but also to the social defence centre of Paifves. This makes two detention centres for a single municipality. The municipal authorities are asking questions about this. Can you indicate within which time the construction of the Verviers prison will be launched? Is it a priority for you? What will be the type of construction and operation of this prison? What category of inmates will it be dedicated to? Where will it be located exactly? Will it be rebuilt on the site? What are the exact decisions about the renovation, reconstruction or demolition/reconstruction of the Lantin prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u17	Minister, for my part, this is the first time that I have asked the following questions. One is of a general nature, the other is more specific. Our colleague mentioned that the master plan was approved in principle in the Council of Ministers on 13 May last, in the context of strikes and prison difficulties in Wallonia and Brussels. It is clear that the announcement made during this period of social conflict does not provide a concrete response to the problems of prison conditions and policy. On the topical issues of last week or two weeks ago, I was struck by your desire to reduce prison overcrowding. If I noted correctly, you said you wanted to increase from 12,000 to less than 10,000 inmates. However, the majority had passed a law extending the use of prison and extending pre-trial detention and maximum sentences. It seems to me that consideration should be given to the efficiency of prison policies in general. I hope you will find a solution with the social partners and workers' representatives in the near future. However, beyond the current problem and the general issue of prison policy in our country, my attention has been drawn to the fact that you are placing a possible future prison in Sugny, in the municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois which I know well. It's a village I've often visited. I don't know if you've ever been to the beautiful village of Sugny, right next to the French border and the province of Luxembourg. I don't dare ask you if you've been there by public transport. I won't make you that affront.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u18	On a bike!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u19	On a bicycle, I congratulate you, you also need muscles to go on a bicycle! It was a little surprising. Of course, I read the answer you gave to Mr Gilkinet, who asked you six questions last week. I noticed you didn't answer any of his six questions. However, you have given answers. I learned, for example, that it would not be a prison, to reduce the transfer of detainees to Dinant or Namur. That doesn't mean there wouldn't be any. There are still parole issues and other things that can lead to transfers. I saw the four pillars of the masterplan. I have noted, for example, that you do not place Vresse-sur-Semois in constructions but in extensions. I don't know if that's a mistake in transcribing your answer. I saw the reasons why you abandoned the Sambreville and Achêne projects, two potential sites in Namur province. For Sambreville, you say that the site is polluted and that the clean-up costs should be forecast. To my knowledge, the costs of clean-up are not borne by the Régie des Bâtiments or the Federal State, since Europe has promised a grant to do so and the city and the municipality have found solutions. For Achêne, there is the transfer of Youth to the Communities. Nevertheless, the federal state has land in Achêne which could, for example, house a prison. The question of location makes me a little perplexed. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know whether you have sought the advice of your administration, the FPS Justice, or the prison administration. Do you have a review that proposes you to choose the implementation of Sugny? What criteria, if any, are used to make this choice? Has the question of mobility been taken into account in this study or, in any case, in your administration's review of this file? Have you ever considered mobility issues? Are you planning to contact Wallonia, TEC, other public transport companies to improve mobility? The nearest train station, Gedinne, is 30 kilometres away, but there is no bus connection to Sugny, there is one to the province of Luxembourg. This raises the question, because to reach Sugny from Namur, it takes three hours to go, three hours to return. It's a problem for families. We know that contact with the families of detainees is an important element in their reintegration. Families must be able to visit detainees during their detention. Is a mobility plan planned, given the low supply of public transport in this region? What have you planned for the staff? Will they be staff from other prisons? I am not aware of the closure of a prison, hence the contradiction between reducing the prison population and building or expanding new prisons. In case of changes, what would be the proportion of changes compared to the new jobs created on the Sugny site?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, there is no prison in this commune. It is therefore not an extension. On 13 May last, the Council of Restricted Ministers did indeed agree in principle on a new adapted masterplan, Masterplan III. This is an agreement-in-principle on the construction of new prisons and the extension of some existing prisons. In Bourg-Léopold, it is obviously a new prison; in Ypres, it is an extension; in Lantin, it is the replacement of Tower 2; in Verviers, it is a new prison as well as in Vresse-sur-Semois. With regard to Verviers, it is true that the intention is to build a 240-seat prison. It should be noted that the new prisons are designed in such a way that, if the composition of the population changes in the future, the building would allow this element to be taken into account. We also intend to build a new 312-seat prison in the immediate vicinity of the current Lantin prison. There will also be a high-security neighbourhood. Both projects replace Lantin's prison (the tower). Currently, 500 detainees, including some 200 convicted persons and 300 accused persons, are incarcerated in inadequate conditions. The building is in very poor condition. Concerning the project in Vresse-sur-Semois, whenever an establishment is to be built, we will look, as a Régie or via local administrations, for potential sites that can be taken into consideration. They are examined on the basis of criteria such as size, shape, degree of inclination, etc. The dossier will be further clarified and further elaborated. It seems to me likely that, in view of the situation in the area, this will be a detention home, as I was already telling Mr. Gilkinet, not a detention home, which will result in a more limited number of trips. Of course, when implementing the project, the necessary contacts will be made with all relevant partners, including transport companies. We have also always done this for the other new prisons. For the time being, it is obviously still too early to discuss other aspects such as staff. These need to be further developed. Finally, concerning Achêne and Sambreville, I can inform you that these two tracks have been abandoned for the following reasons. For Achêne, the project had been defined for young people but following the last reform of the State, the competence was transferred to the Communities and the project has therefore become obsolete. For Sambreville, the project was abandoned due to high remediation costs. It is a fact that I want to reduce the number of inmates. I believe that my record in this regard is not so bad since since the installation of this government, we have reduced the number of inmates by 1,000. This does not mean that we do not need a new and adapted infrastructure. Most of the premises are replacement buildings. In addition, it is likely that other obsolete establishments will be closed in the long term. All this is now being translated into a concrete dossier which will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers with all the details and a precise timetable. We must wait for the approval of the Council of Ministers to know what form the implementation and financing will take, but in spite of everything, we are progressing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. I got an explanation. It was my assumption, too, but I'm checking it out. This means that as a first step, they are cells for a prison. But there is nothing to say that, in the years to come, this could not be modulated and that prisoners would be found there, depending on the profile of the persons concerned. You say that the draft must now be implemented and submitted to the Council of Ministers. When do you think it will be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u22	I would like to consolidate the answers and await the outcome of the next replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u23	In my opinion, the same question will be asked of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u24	I would like to stress this issue, Mr Minister, and especially on the subject of consultation, in particular with the municipal authorities of Juprelle. You have to keep this in mind, even if you are Minister of Justice and prisons depend on the Régie des Bâtiments. There needs to be a discussion on this. From your answer, I understand what will happen in the future, so I expect an overall decrease in the number of inmates on Lantin. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u25	Minister, I think your single answer is a little watered down from the initial questions. We didn't get more concrete answers than we did last week. Before I ask when the prison would eventually be built, I would like to know when a real feasibility study will be carried out. This seems to me to be a first step. Then we'll see what's going on with a possible construction. With regard to accessibility, staff and operating costs, you have not answered and these questions remain fully valid and open. It's a little disappointing. Mr Clarinval spoke in the press asking since when Sugny's project is on the table. This is probably not for a long time, since Mr Clarinval says that this is his proposal by adding "nothing has yet been done, all this is to be dealt with on a conditional basis". That is the conclusion, we will see if this project is actually feasible. I imagine that your administration will be involved in the examination of this file as to its actual feasibility. I am for the economic development of Bresse-sur-Semois. I do not think it is necessarily a prison that this commune needs, especially on the site of this former NATO base. Beyond that, attention must be paid to the families of the detainees and to the reintegration of the detainees. The choices that must be made should not be partisan but should take this issue into account. What ultimately matters is the efficiency of our prison policy. At the end of their sentence, the detainees are released from prison, it must not be in a state of mind worse than that which was theirs when they entered prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u26	I obviously agree with you on the purpose of any prison policy. I would be a bad Minister of Justice if I did not attach absolute priority to the matter to be presented to the Council of Ministers. On the question of timing, I will do everything in my power to ensure that, together with the minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, the matter is presented to the Council of Ministers before the big holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the Optional Protocol against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT) adopted in December 2002 by the UN General Assembly was signed by Belgium in December 2005, but has not yet been ratified by our country. In particular, OPCAT provides for the establishment of an independent national preventive mechanism, mandated to carry out regular visits to all places where persons are deprived of their liberty. While many States welcomed Belgium's human rights efforts at the last universal periodic review held in Geneva on 20 January, many of its peers also stressed the urgency of ratifying the Protocol. This recommendation was accepted by Belgium, aware of the importance of this gap for a country whose respect for and promotion of human rights is a fundamental axis of its foreign policy. Minister, can you inform me of the status of the proposed ratification of the United Nations Optional Protocol against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment? Are there any blocking elements to date that would impede the process of ratification of the Protocol? If so, which ones? Finally, is the establishment of an independent national preventive mechanism currently under consideration within your department? If so, can you inform me in more detail of its nature, as well as of the time frame by which you expect it to come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, in consultation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have instructed the administration to prepare a draft bill of consent in order to be able to ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, the said OPCAT, as soon as possible. At this stage, there are still some areas of shadow as to how our country will organize the competent national (or national) control mechanism(s) for places where people are deprived of their liberty, such as closed centres for foreigners or psychiatric hospitals. My firm has already approved the approach of a first draft text, but there were still some translations to be prepared and some consultations to be done with the FPS Foreign Affairs. Our goal is therefore to introduce a bill of consent as soon as possible and to begin parliamentary work on this issue. With regard to how our country will organize the relevant national (or national) monitoring mechanism(s), we also discuss some recent suggestions from civil society. In any case, the "pot-pourri IV" project already contains measures to strengthen independence and professional support for the Central Prison Supervision Board, which also prepares the ground for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u29	Minister, thank you. "Best deadlines" are obviously somewhat vague terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u30	The shortest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u31	Before the summer then!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u32	Mr President, Minister, on the sidelines of negotiations with the various players in the sector in the context of the reorganization of the prison administration, many prison officers refuse to resume their duties. Several trade union organisations also threaten to continue this strike in the endish, until a comprehensive agreement has been approved by all the players in the sector. Minister, how many correctional officers are currently employed by the FPS Justice? What is the proportion of those currently on strike? Can you inform me more precisely about the breakdown in terms of the impact of the number of prison officers on strike per prison in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u33	Jadin, dated May 24, 2016, 7,761 supervisory and technical officers are employed by the Prisons Directorate for 6,759.60 full-time equivalents. It is currently impossible for DG PPE to provide figures on the number of strikers. Beyond the monitoring missions, the strike also has a heavy impact on the administrative services, which means that the information on the nature of the absence of the agents remains unknown. The expected information can only be provided when the current movement is complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u35	Mr. Chair, Minister, according to his annual report presented last week, Child Focus recorded an increase last year in reports of disappearances of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA). Indeed, in 2015, just over 5,000 new MENA were registered in Belgium, more than twice as many as a year ago. Child Focus dealt with 66 cases of missing unaccompanied foreign minors last year, including 36 new cases. In addition, between January and May 2016, 32 new files have already been opened. Of the young people concerned, the majority were boys. Nearly a third came from Afghanistan, followed by Eritrea and Syria. For Child Focus, these figures are "only the tip of the iceberg, as it is impossible to estimate the exact number of MENA missing. Too often, the police and other services give up in the face of these disappearances because of a lack of research resources. Yet these young people, because of their vulnerability, are at greater risk of becoming victims of human trafficking or sexual exploitation." Mr Minister, on the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the procedures at the level of the Tutelle Service? Is there an increased coordination between the Tutelle Service, the police services and the associations involved in dealing with this situation? What means do you put at their disposal to deal with these situations? Finally, do the various players involved in the protection of MENA benefit from specific training and awareness-raising programmes on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u36	Mr President, Mr Kir, in the event of the disappearance of an unaccompanied foreign minor under guardianship, the guardian shall report the disappearance to the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the event that the disappeared person is not definitively identified as an unaccompanied foreign minor and is not under guardianship, the alert belongs to the accommodation centre under the responsibility of either the Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers or the Communities and Regions. In any case, the disappearance of the young person may be reported by the person or institution who is aware of it, e.g. the Tutelle Service or the foster family. The management of the reporting of missing persons falls within the competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office in particular when it comes to determining whether the disappearance is worrying according to the criteria laid down in the specific regulations. Many young people in transit to other countries reject the system of protection proposed by the Guardianship Act. This situation therefore falls within the competence of the police services responsible for transit migration or responsible for disturbing disappearances. In the framework of the 2016-2019 Action Plan to Combat Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings, with a view to facilitating operational cooperation, the Tutelle Service is piloting a working group on the care of unaccompanied foreign minors, which is responsible for drafting an interdisciplinary vade-mecum for operators. Police and Child Focus are associated with this group. In this context, the feasibility of extending the Memorandum of Understanding on the Management of the Disappearance of Unaccompanied Foreign Minors currently valid for the Brussels region is also analysed. Similarly, this group is exploring the possibility of systematically registering non-asylum-seeking foreign minors as recommended by the European authorities. In 2013 and 2014, 240 guardians were sufficient to place all unaccompanied foreign minors under guardianship. Since the beginning of the asylum crisis in mid-2015, the Tutelles Service has resumed selection interviews, so that 495 tutors who have completed basic training are currently in operation. To cope with the influx of young people, the selections for the accreditation of new tutors are systematically continued in 2016. The basic training programme received by the guardian prior to entry into service provides for the subjects of trafficking and trafficking, as well as the procedure in case of disappearance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u37	Minister, thank you for your full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u38	Questions Nos 11783 and 11795 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u39	Minister, the strike in prison has been going on for four weeks. You negotiated last Monday and again today, for the tenth time. If I understood the news on the radio correctly, an agreement would have been reached this morning. I have also understood that it will not be presented until Monday and that there will still be a delay, except in Saint Gillis. Mr Hoppe of the ACOD said that he would be presenting the agreement tomorrow, which I certainly appreciate. However, my questions remain about the same. We know the state of the trade union talks. Could you tell me which were actually the biggest stumbling blocks? My original question was what initiatives you would take to end the strike. I'm gonna change it now. What is specifically contained in the protocol, on which you reached the preliminary agreement? It is very important for me to know whether the rationalisation plan for a more efficient staffing effort will still be implemented in the same way, and whether it will also be implemented in the same way in Flanders and French-speaking Belgium. I would also like to know what your position is on the Flemish prison directors' appeal to continue to implement the rationalisation plans, including in French-speaking prisons. If you do not do so now, they believe that all their efforts over the last year and a half would have been useless. That would, of course, be a pity. Finally, Minister, if there are additional recruitments from prison staff, I understand that this has been promised, how will these staff be distributed among the different prisons? We know that people in Flanders already have fewer staff per prisoner than in French-speaking Belgium. So I'd be interested to know that. I also know that, in the run-up, an analysis has been made of every prison to know what the need was in every prison and to make effective customization of rationalisation. I suspect that we will follow that customization in the division of personnel. I would have liked an answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u40	Mrs De Wit, it is not always easy to know why negotiations drag on for a long time, especially when one is involved. There are great differences between prisons and it is not easy to get the proposals for each prison to be accepted exactly. I would like to point out that the negotiations have been constructive at most times and have remained constructive, even though the strike has lasted. The proposals that are now being submitted to the staff are good proposals, of which everyone is getting better. Today's protocol includes the following proposals. Firstly, there is the recruitment of 480 statutory documents, of which 386 are prison guards. That is 75 more than the protocol of 6 May proposed. Secondly, Selor's recruitment reserve will be used. Selor will organise a new recruitment round at the end of June. This amounts to a freeze of personnel savings for 2016. Each outgoing penitentiary agent will be replaced until the frame is brought to 7 075. That is 75 more than the 7 000 full-time equivalents promised in the Protocol of 6 May. Thirdly, the staff of the prisons applying the new working method receive a flexibility premium of EUR 3 for certain hours, which is EUR 4.8 gross, so that any loss of earnings is avoided. Fourthly, new to the new protocol in relation to the previous protocol is that the same premium will be granted for the night hours. The night premium will therefore be increased for the hours between 21:50 and 06:20, even where the new working method would not be applied. Fifthly, the use of new regulatory and legal means will reduce the overpopulation of prisons to 10 000 prisoners. The new measures are at the top of the existing policy, which has already led to a reduction in the number of prisoners by more than a thousand units in two years. Sixthly, the improvement of prison infrastructure through accelerated maintenance and additional investment by the Buildings Regié for 46 million, and a specific programme for security works is being implemented by the Justice Department for 10 million. The practice of working differently, as has been the case for a whole year, will continue throughout the country, per prison, in consultation and on a voluntary basis. It was agreed to carry out a quarterly evaluation of the evolution of recruitment, overpopulation and infrastructure improvements proposed today to trade union organizations. In mid-2017, government and trade unions will jointly assess the framework, setting up per establishment, on the basis of the progress made in terms of prison population and infrastructure renewal, taking into account the age pyramid of the staff of the prison concerned. In any case, the framework will not be lower than what is assumed in the exercise "other works', after social consultation, also for those prisons where the exercise "other works' is not started after consultation. I look forward with confidence to the reaction of the penitentiary staff, who will consider the proposal in the coming days. In my view, your second question is no longer applicable, since the protocol will be submitted to the staff. I shall then come to your third question. One element, of course, is the continuation of what has always been called the theoretical exercise 'other works'. This will be done in practice in consultation and on a voluntary basis. That applies to all prisons. I will, of course, implement the agreement and there will be a one-to-one replacement of the movers and a fill-in of the frameworks where the exercise has shown that there are deficits. Additional staff are also provided everywhere, with a special focus on prisons where reinforcement is needed in the fight against terrorism and on the basis of resources. I am referring to the 100 additional recruitments granted to me under the Channel Plan. To this end, a specific distribution key shall be used to ensure that staff are distributed equally and fairly among all penitentiary establishments. To the extent that this would be important, all trade unions, Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, have agreed to this distribution. It is perhaps important to understand, in the context of my reply, that normally the framework will be lower than an ordinary framework. The fact that I maintain the minimum threshold at work level is a reassurance for those who are suspicious of the method of working other than that and think that it would be even lower if one did not step into that method. This is the only reason why I use that minimum threshold for everyone, so that one can rest assured that one can enjoy that threshold. So far, my answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am certainly glad that there is a solution. I hope that it is still the intention to continue rationalization. I understand from the letter from the prison directors and from a lot of signals from the field, especially on the Flemish side, that it would be odd that those who do not want to work or do not want to rationalise would now be rewarded for that. I'll read the deal quietly. The only thing that worries me a little more is that it doesn't work on a voluntary basis. An evaluation will follow next year. So we have a one-year grace period. That's okay, I don't have a problem with that, but then we have to make sure that next year we don't have the same problem. It can't be the intention to put this place back on the ground. I hope the strike ends on Monday. She's taken long enough for the inmates, the prison directors, the cops and the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u42	For the record, a number of prisons have already started to work differently. The flexibility premium will be granted retrospectively. There is no question of returning to the past. It's just that it's been reculated, to make it better than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic426x.u43	I'm glad something still changes. I was very concerned that the result would be that nothing would change and that only one would have been right, which would not reward those who do their best. I really hope that is not the case. We must make it clear to all the prisons, including those who have not rationalized yet, that it is not because there are four seats, that there must also be four men on them. One should sit only on the seats that are needed. You understand very well what I'm trying to say. We must only employ staff where and when it is necessary and not haphazardly, because there happens to be a framework now. I hope we do not end up in the same boat by mid-2017.
