ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, my question is a few weeks ago. Since then, we have learned other things. But at that time, my question was about the transport ticket for seniors. These were issues experienced by the seniors themselves on how they could acquire a transport ticket. The acquisition of a transport ticket is sometimes a matter of the combatant's journey either with closed windows or with windows that have become non-existent. Travellers are now asked to go to a distributor who, when it is not defective, is not necessarily easy to access or understand for everyone and especially for seniors. This raises a number of questions, as it would be harmful for seniors who benefit from a preferential tariff to deprive themselves of this advantage due to the lack of timely purchase of a transport ticket. Minister, has any thought been given to accessibility for seniors for whom this nodal act of acquiring a transport ticket is more complex? Does SNCB intend to introduce a Senior Pass like the Go Pass and Rail Pass? If so, do you intend to include this product in your next management contract, as it is in full negotiation? In the meantime, we have learned that a more global reflection is taking place on transport tickets and, in particular, prices. I will not deal with this now because it is not the subject of my initial question tabled in January. Nevertheless, I will stress this aspect of the Senior Pass, which I believe is all the more essential in view of the ongoing discussions on the potential evolution of ticket rates, including single tickets and even subscriptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, it is clear that every effort must be made to encourage older people to take the train further, in particular through an attractive and appropriate trade policy. I agree with you that the SNCB must pursue an ambitious trade policy vis-à-vis the elderly. In this context, the elderly reduction on the train ticket must remain a significant social reduction and subsidized by the State. At this stage, SNCB would not consider the introduction of a Senior Pass. The terms and conditions for issuing this transport document are the responsibility of its commercial policy. I would remind you that this senior ticket is sold on all of SNCB's distribution channels, i.e. at counters, automatons, on the website and on the SNCB app on smartphone or tablet. We can admit that the customer also has a wide range of purchase points to bring his transport ticket before boarding the train. As far as automatons are concerned, although their sales process is adapted and simple and their use by these customers does not pose any structural problems, SNCB also offers a guided video on its website concerning the purchase of the senior ticket from an automaton. If, however, a person encounters difficulties in purchasing his or her ticket from the machine, he or she can use the purchase assistance via the telephone number indicated on the automatons, every day from 7:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. and remote assistance can also be provided. I am of course aware that, for a fringe of our seniors, the transition to computerization of sales is and remains complex. That is why I want to expand the possibilities by examining the development of other sales channels, particularly in more rural areas, such as bookstores and public services. These sales channels will be examined in the next management contract. I will also take care to raise awareness among the municipal administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you. You refer to the use of automatons, which may be a little more difficult for some than for others. With regard to smartphones, if statistics were available on the proportion of seniors connected to their smartphone in real time, there would be a small number of them. It is therefore necessary to expand the palette so as to have "mechanical" accessibility for the acquisition of a ticket. Allow me a few suggestions: why not introduce prepaid SNCB cards for 5 or 10 Senior trips, or a Senior Pass? In some places, in Brussels within the 19 municipalities, it is possible to have maps compatible with the various public transport (STIB, De Lijn, TEC): why not extend the system to other regions? So many avenues to discuss with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u4	Mr President, I propose to turn my question No 8623 into a written question, so as not to waste time in a reading exercise. What I'm interested in is getting information about the investigation into the train collision in Binche. Madam Minister, if you have the report, thank you for sending it to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u5	Question No 8623 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u6	Madam Minister, it dates from the Royal Decree of 1 December 1993 that SNCB has yet to draw up language frameworks. The Royal Decree was annulled by the Council of State in 1999 because the distribution of relations within the language frameworks was not entirely in line with the essential importance to be accorded to both language groups. From the answers to written questions I have put on this subject, I was told that attempts were still being made to draw up new language frameworks, but I doubt whether those attempts were serious. In all cases, it should be noted that SNCB has no language frameworks since 1999, i.e. for more than 15 years. In its annual reports, the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision constantly mentions that SNCB is one of the public enterprises that does not have language frameworks. In the latest annual report of the VCT, the comments for the year 2014 are very clear. I quote: "The VCT will continue to put pressure on services that do not have valid language frameworks in 2014. This is a serious offence in which the absence of language frameworks questions the essence of the law itself." The language law in administrative matters is a law of public order. This means that, in principle, there can be no deviation from it. Due to the lack of language frameworks, no appointments and promotions can in principle be made. In addition, there is a high risk of this, as any interested party may, in the event of promotion or appointment to the Council of State, take steps to challenge such promotion or appointment on the basis of the lack of language frameworks. Madam Minister, what progress has been made with the drafting of new language frameworks for SNCB? What steps have been taken by SNCB in this respect? What figures have already been made in this respect? When did they happen? What numbers still need to be carried out in order to draw up the language frameworks? When will they happen? What further steps need to be taken to arrive at a specific language framework proposal for the VCT? When does SNCB intend to submit its language framework proposals to the VCT? What's the timing of that? Finally, if there is no progress in the dossier, what steps do you intend to take in relation to SNCB? Will you then set a deadline for SNCB to finally come up with a language framework proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u7	Mrs Pas, the answer I gave you on 1 December 2015 to your written question No. 559, is still applicable and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u8	Madam Secretary, I have your meaningless answer to that written question with me. Of course, it is not an answer to my question. In a previous answer to a written question, you refer to an opinion of the VCT in which, so to speak, a simplified procedure would be allowed. I asked for that advice, but it has nothing to do with that. I would therefore like concrete answers, Madam Minister. I would at least have expected an initiative from you towards SNCB, because if you do not give an answer and do not even have the ambition to do something about it, I fear, given the silence of SNCB, that we can wait a long time for the language frameworks, with all the serious consequences for appointments and promotions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I hope that I will get a proper answer to this question. At the end of January, the Brussels-North-Poperinge train had to stop on the way after a case of heavy aggression on a train guide. This train attendant was beaten so hard he couldn't work on it. He even needed to be transferred to a hospital. Unfortunately, this is not a single example. Violence on train escorts is becoming more common. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary. Firstly, in practice, train escorts are increasingly required to operate alone on trains up to 12 carriages, whereas such trains normally require a chief and a control officer to be present. Can train escorts refuse to work only on trains up to 12 carriages? Does SNCB take measures to avoid in practice only the operation of train drivers? There is a theoretical rule, but in practice, unfortunately, things are different. Secondly, a few years ago it was announced in the media that cameras would be placed in all carriages. So far, however, only the Desirostellen are equipped with cameras, because they are supplied as standard. No other model has been fitted so far. When will we keep the promise of placing cameras in all carriages, or will there be nothing like that about the language frames? Thirdly, and finally, I have a general question, Madam Minister. Does SNCB also take other measures to better protect its train attendants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Pas, SNCB confirms that a second train guide is being used on all trains made up of 12 carriages. The Brussels-North Poperinge train to which you referred was also staffed with two train escorts. Due to exceptional circumstances, the second train companion may be used on another train to avoid the abolition of that train. A train escort shall not refuse to operate the train alone in such circumstances. SNCB has never announced in the media that all existing trains would be equipped with cameras. She only mentioned all future trains. Only the Desirostellen are equipped with cameras. In the preparation of the specifications for the purchase of new passenger equipment, the study shall include the placement of camera dynamometers in double-deck vehicles. The approach of aggression towards train escorts is a top priority of SNCB. In addition to the day-to-day follow-up and after-care of the victims, preventive and proactive actions are also taken. An internal steering committee follows the master plan of anti-aggression on a monthly basis and adjusts where necessary. In addition, Securail's patrols were also tailored to the late and early trains and the trains presenting a certain risk. These lines and trains are highly targeted, often in cooperation with police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u11	Madam Minister, it is the logic itself that the safety of train drivers is an absolute priority of SNCB. Unfortunately, in practice it is often the case that there can be no two companions. You outlined the situation in which the second coach is called away to prevent the abolition of another train. I think it is very important to avoid this situation as much as possible. I expected that not only the new aircraft, but also the trains that will be in use for a very long time, will be equipped with cameras. Better cooperation with police and Securail is certainly important, but camera surveillance is also paying off. You must urge SNCB not only to place cameras not only in the new ones but also in the other ones. We must do everything we can to protect train drivers more effectively. It is those who regularly tell us that the measures taken by SNCB are not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, the investment unit, which you have announced since the dissemination of your strategic vision for rail - in the acronym CIF for rail investment - seems to be taking shape with the designation of representatives from the 3 Regions. It will probably consist of a strategic level and a technical level. However, we do not know any more and I would therefore like to ask you a number of questions as to its usefulness and objectivity. You have announced that the ICF will be coordinated by the FPS. But in terms of authority, will it be dependent on the government or the SNCB/Infrabel or both? For months, your systematic answer to any question about future rail investments has been "the investment cell will decide". Since its opinions are not binding, can you tell us under what conditions it can be derogated from the position of the investment unit? Should a decision contrary to the position adopted by the ICF be argued? What will be precisely the resources and means dedicated to the work of the CIF, whose role for the future of rail is fundamental and probably at the heart of the negotiations which do not fail to feed, I suppose, for the moment, the days and nights around the management contract or other elements related to the rail? Finally, what will be the precise composition in terms of the status/function of the ICF?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u13	Dear Mr Cheron, the investment unit is at the level of analysis coordinated by the Mobility and Transport FPS and at the strategic level led by my strategic unit. It is also under my authority and therefore not under the authority of Infrabel or SNCB. The investment unit aims to prepare investment decisions to be presented by public railway undertakings before being endorsed by the Council of Ministers. The opinions of the investment unit are indeed non-binding. They aim to analyse the consistency between the proposals submitted by SNCB and Infrabel and by the Regions with the government's rail mobility objectives. I think that this is a great first that will allow coherence between the two companies. The objective of the unit's work is to inform the government, but it will be for the government to decide and approve the multi-year investment plan. This cell is not intended to replace the decision-making power of the management bodies of SNCB and Infrabel. The Investment Unit is a technical working body that does not have a dedicated budget or specific resources, but its operating costs are covered by the operating budget of the Mobility and Transport FPS. The SNCB, Infrabel and SPF Mobility teams responsible for rail investment are mobilised at the administrative level of the investment unit, in which regional officials are also involved. Representatives of the federal government's strategic units, representatives of the federated entities, as well as members of the SPF, SNCB and Infrabel's steering committee participate in the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I see now more clearly as regards the role of each other. When you said the investment cell would decide, it was a metaphor. In other words, the cell is an organ of "coherence" and "preparation of decisions" that will be taken by the bodies we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u15	Minister, given the state of the scandalous budget cuts you are imposing on rail, rail investment choices will inevitably be more and more difficult to take. We just saw him with the role of the cell. There will be, more than ever, no right to error when planning construction sites. Last week, we heard from Mr Cornu and Mr Infrabel that the Court of Auditors said very interesting things about investments, reference dates, etc. We know how important all this is, especially in the planning of construction sites that will lead to rail efficiency for many years to come. According to information I have been able to glean, the Mobility and Transport FPS would have set up an analysis grid allowing to objectify railway investments as much as possible, according to a number of evaluation criteria. Given the strategic importance of a perfect analysis of these investments for the future, I think it would be useful to have some elements on this document in order to be able to discuss them. Could you therefore ensure that we have access to this document? Has this tool been developed in partnership with SNCB and Infrabel? Will the famous railway investment unit we have just talked about seize it and turn it into its core work? Indeed, we are talking about objective criteria in the context of the cost-benefit analysis of rail investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u16	Mr Cheron, the government has established a multi-criteria analysis method based on a proposal from the Mobility and Transport FPS and after consultation with SNCB and Infrabel. The investment unit relies on multi-criteria analysis to verify the compliance of projects on the table with government rail mobility objectives as contained in the strategic vision but also to classify them according to the response to achieve these objectives. Each investment project is reviewed according to nine criteria: passenger comfort, supply, intermodality of travellers, maintenance, security, security, social security, impact on the population and the environment, increased productivity and impact on accounts and links with the European context. For each project, a score is assigned according to its contribution to the nine criteria. Multi-criteria analysis is a decision support tool designed to provide support for final decision-making within government. At this stage of the work, given the technical nature of the document, it seems premature for me to communicate this internal management tool to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u17	Minister, your answer has the merit of being frank. You will understand a certain frustration in view of my interest in understanding how many decisions of this importance can be truly objective in these areas, given the stakes that this may represent for the future of the Belgian rail industry. I certainly welcome the fact that a methodology is on the table. I heard there were nine criteria. I have noted them quickly and will read the report again. I can only abound in the sense of the strongest objectivation, but you will understand that I will remain particularly attentive to the possible systematic control of the choices taken in relation to these criteria. This is also true of the efficiency of rail and the investment choices that are made. I would remind you of what we have read in the Court of Auditors' very interesting report on the decisions taken in the past and on the consequences of the old methodology, which nevertheless caused some inconvenience for an objective analysis of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, the charge for the use of furrows is probably one of the knelpunten, as they say in good French when negotiating in Belgium, on what is at the heart of the discussions on management contracts. This must feed the nights of Messrs. Cornu and Lallemand and the Minister. We know the stakes very well. If I were to summarize the situation, I would say that in the present situation where these charges are very high, the SNCB has almost the advantage of driving as few trains as possible, for example at peak hours or at the North-Midi junction. In addition to a very complex methodological technicality concerning the royalty and the price of furrow royalties, it is known that fewer royalties paid by SNCB have a negative effect on Infrabel's budget. It is complicated; the issue of debt must also be taken into account, etc. However, the Mobility and Transport FPS would have conducted a study on the different scenarios for the revision of the infrastructure fee paid by SNCB to Infrabel. I would point out that it is not only SNCB that pays these fees, since other operators also have to pay for international freight or passengers. To my knowledge, this study has not yet been disseminated and its findings are not available, although it is now complete. Given the importance of this issue in understanding the negotiation of management and other contracts, and the resulting increased service opportunities for travellers, there seems to be a need for public debate on this issue – which I am trying to trigger, minister. I know that I will not get satisfaction immediately, but at least I can say that I asked these questions when we talk about this central topic again. Could you then, regardless of the possible negative answer that you will reserve to me, do what is necessary to pass on the study and its conclusions to me one day? This would allow me to understand the stakes of the railway debate in our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u19	Mr President, Mr Cheron, the SPF Mobility and Transport has indeed commissioned a study on the optimisation of the infrastructure fee in the context of the regulatory amendment introduced at European level. The aim of the study was to carry out a comparative analysis of how different European countries organise their infrastructure charges and an analysis of market segments which could be taken into account for the calculation of markups at the cost directly attributable to the operation of the rail service following the uniform rules at European level. The administration informs me that a summary of the results of the study is still in preparation. I will not fail, as you ask me, to provide you with the study when I have been able to read about its main results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u20	Minister, thank you for this unequivocal response. So you will understand my impatience. I won't fail to come back. Beyond humour, it is obviously a crucial issue, as we all know, and I am particularly interested in it. It is also about the ability to drive trains, which should still be the main issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to information I was able to gather, the Mobility and Transport FPS would have conducted a study on the implementation of the ETCS masterplan. To my knowledge, it has not yet been disseminated and its findings are not available. However, this study would be completed today. We've already talked about it on one occasion or the other. So, could you do what is necessary, without passing on the study to me immediately, to give me some information? This is a very important subject in particular in the field of safety but, beyond that, also what this entails for operators other than SNCB. It is well known that among the solutions envisaged to improve the passage of trains in the Nord-Midi junction, the ATO system is also strongly linked to the ETCS system. This is therefore a fundamental issue not only for safety but also for the optimisation of the passage of trains on roads and passenger transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u22	Indeed, at the request of the previous government, the Mobility FPS has been responsible for monitoring rail investments in the ETCS masterplan. This is a framework contract with a consultant that runs for several years. The study is therefore not closed. I have asked my administration for additional information on intermediate conclusions, but these are not yet available. The issue of ETCS deployment is also on the agenda of the investment cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u23	Mr President, I did not do so on purpose, but I feel that I am even more disappointed in replying. So I'll stop there in this show. All this to say, Madam Minister and colleagues, that this is a finding that, obviously, the FPS Mobility Sponsorship – and sometimes for several years, long before you arrived, Madam Minister; it is nothing personal – a number of studies. He had been seen with the Rail For Brussels study, which was timely two days before my question. It was random. As we can see, these are studies that are not negligible in terms of cost. I do not want to be cruel about what this study was supposed to cost at first and what it really cost: you gave us the figures. I note that a number of studies are commissioned. As you can see, there is often a lot of delay in these. And how much they have been completed, it is difficult, for example, for parliamentarians to obtain elements related to these studies. It is known that a number of studies may have degrees of confidentiality, which does not imply that this is the case for all. From memory, for having worked on the subject a few years ago, there is also a constitutional article on the right to access administrative documents. I think we need to think about making sure that all this money used for good reasons a priori, namely the commissioning of studies on a number of subjects, gives at least those who are interested in these issues (here in the field of rail), in particular parliamentarians, the possibility of being able to examine these studies. I will try to introduce a certain degree of transparency in this area, since it is frustrating to see that public money is being used for studies by the Mobility FPS, and that these only arrive late or are not easily accessible, in particular to parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, in April 2015, you announced that the Thalys link to the Walloon dorsal was suspended but in no way removed, and that as part of the modernisation plan requested of the SNCB, the future of the service by the Thalys of the Walloon dorsal would be the subject of special attention. It seems that this is not the case and that your will is to remove this link despite an occupancy rate of more than 50% for the Walloon dorsal on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Wallonia is amputated with an international connection allowing easy business travel for Walloons. The Walloon Minister of Public Works, Maxime Prévot, wrote to you about this on January 8, 2016. Interviewed on radio, your party president said he had the will to "recirculate the Thalys". He added, "I will work with Minister Galant." In response to a question in plenary, you said that "the future of Thalys Wallon will be reassessed in future management contracts and multi-annual investment plans". Madam Minister, could you give us a clear idea of the future of the Walloon dorsal served by the Thalys? Will this link be restored? If so, when? Why didn't you put any appropriations in Budget 2015 on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u25	Ms.Poncelet, as a reminder, following the stop announced at the end of March 2015 of the Thalys train traffic in the Namur area due to the commissioning of the ERTMS by Infrabel, I had all alternatives to the current high-speed services examined. This study showed the very low occupancy of the two ridges and the very high cost to the taxpayer. In this context, the government had authorised SNCB to suspend Flemish and Walloon services, especially for technical reasons related to ETCS facilities. Today, discussions are taking place on a number of more structural, efficient and customer-oriented avenues. These various railway offers will be examined and defined in future management contracts. I will take care of this because it is important to support international services in all regions of the country. Among all runways, the return to service of a high-speed train on the Walloon dorsal will be examined, taking into account, inter alia, the transformation of Thalys International into subsidiaries, and the low availability of Thalys trains due to their maintenance. Therefore, it may be a high-speed train, but more necessarily a Thalys. All the leads are being examined today. As I have already explained, through the next management contract, I want to set clear budgetary priorities and good governance, respecting not only all clients but also taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u26	Madam Minister, you have spoken of a "low occupancy rate", but it seems to me that 50%, including Fridays, is not a very low rate, but on the contrary. In your answer, you talk about the future, but it seems to me so far away and uncertain that it is not very satisfactory. In conclusion to my inquiry, I now table a motion asking the federal government to re-establish as soon as possible – this must be a near, immediate future – the Thalys link on the Walloon dorsal. This motion also asks him to provide the budgetary means necessary for the budget item entitled "Contributions for the inland transport of passengers by high-speed trains" in the next budgetary adjustment. Third, this motion calls for the government to consult in advance with the Walloon government on federal decisions affecting strategic railway lines in Wallonia, and fourthly, to defend in the next SNCB management contract – not in "the" coming but in the first coming – the maintenance of the obligation to serve, in cooperation with foreign rail transport, inland destinations with high-speed trains, especially on the Walloon dorsal. I table this motion on the Secretary's bench.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u27	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Isabelle Poncelet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Isabelle Poncelet and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, asks the federal government 1. to restart, as soon as possible, the Thalys link on the Walloon dorsal; 2. to provide, as soon as the next budgetary adjustment is made, for the budgetary means necessary for the budget article entitled "Contribution for inland passenger transport by high-speed trains"; 3. Prior consultation with the Walloon government on federal decisions affecting strategic railway lines in Wallonia; 4. to defend in the next SNCB management contract the maintenance of the obligation to serve, in cooperation with foreign rail carriers, inland destinations with high-speed trains, in particular on the Walloon dorsal." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, calls on the federal government 1. rehire the Thalys connection on the Walloon axis as soon as possible; 2. from its next budgetary adjustment, to allocate the necessary budgetary resources through a budget article entitled "Contribution to domestic passenger transport guaranteed by high-speed trains"; 3. to consult the Walloon Government in advance on the federal decisions relating to the strategic railway lines in Wallonia; 4. to ensure in the next SNCB management contract that the obligation to do domestic destinations with high-speed trains, in particular on the Walloon axis, in cooperation with foreign rail transport operators is maintained." A simple motion was tabled by Ms Daphné Dumery and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton and Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Daphné Dumery and Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Veli Yüksel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, this issue is also not a matter of today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u29	It gives the impression that I'm not here often!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u30	This is not a criticism of you. In addition, I had to participate in other commissions dealing with government bills. It's a little complicated to handle everything at the same time. Do not take this as a remark to you! It comes to my mind that eight AR41 railcars, which were until recently assigned little to the Antwerp depot for the operation of the Herentals-Mol line, were transferred to the Charleroi depot in exchange for Desiro AM08 motors. Line 15, which has been electrified since 9 December 2015, is now operated using these Desiro electric traction motors. On the other hand, Charleroi's depot inherited the AR41 railcars, which are now used to operate lines 130A Charleroi-Erquelinnes, 144 Jemeppe-sur-Sambre-Gembloux, as well as certain Charleroi-La Louvière-Manage-Luttre omnibus relations. All these railway lines are electrified. Operating them now using diesel equipment will increase energy costs, as the energy costs of diesel equipment are higher than those of electrical equipment. The risk is therefore that the operating cost of these lines will increase and their profitability will decrease. Minister, how do you explain the transfer of diesel cars on Walloon electrified lines to the detriment of the Charleroi and Hainaut regions, while giving priority to the Antwerp region? Have there been any other exchanges of diesel motors for electric motors over the past year? What are they? What is the strategy of SNCB and yours on the operation of these lines electrified by diesel motors? Do you measure the impact this has on short- and long-term commuters? Can you reallocate diesel motors to the operation of these different Walloon lines, as was the case before December 13, 2015? How are the 80 diesel motors distributed today? On what lines? Where are such motors assigned on electrified lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u31	Mrs Fonck, at present, most AR41 diesel motors operate in Flanders. Of the 93 diesel engines available to SNCB, 46 are assigned to the Merelbeke workshop, 27 to the Hasselt workshop and 20 to the Charleroi workshop. The recent electrification of the Mol-Herentals section, motivated by large passenger flows in this region, has freed AR41 diesel equipment, whose capacity and technical characteristics did not allow these passengers to be transported on the Mol-Brussels line. For example, since December 14, 2015, electric motors have been operating on Mol's starting relationships in place of AR41 diesel equipment. Part of the liberated AR41 equipment was transferred to the Charleroi region, where the non-electrified Couvin-Mariembourg-Charleroi line is located. Nevertheless, this material does not circulate exclusively on this line but also on the electrified lines of the region: L144 Gembloux-Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, L130A Erquelines-Charleroi, L112, 116 and 117 Charleroi Sud-Lutre. This choice was made for several reasons, including the presence in the vicinity of a workshop that already maintains the AR41 (atelier de Charleroi), the presence of a depot of drivers in Charleroi, who already knew the AR41, because they were trained there, and the presence of trains with weak occupations in this region, because the AR41 are not very capable. These AR41 diesel motors have, moreover, replaced mainly the dual motors, old equipment of the 1970s, less comfortable, very expensive in maintenance and which, for all these reasons, is being phased out. In fact, AR41 diesel motors are more modern equipment in the 2000s than dual motors. Travellers therefore enjoy better comfort (e.g. air conditioning). This choice to drive more AR41 trains in the Charleroi region therefore contributes to a real desire to optimise the rail system as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. The report of the electrified lines should also be seen. I am not sure that we have 50% on either side of the linguistic border. This could explain why you noted this ratio with more diesel motors in Flanders. However, I would like to draw your attention to one element. For several years, it has been clear that SNCB's strategy is to focus on the axes and lines between the major cities. The transfer of these diesel engines to the Charleroi and La Louvière regions on lines that do not connect major cities will result in a higher energy cost than using electrical equipment. The profitability of these lines will therefore be reduced. My fear is to see this pretext used in rural and semi-rural areas to close these lines or to remove some stops. Each time, this argument was used by SNCB. You will agree, Madam Minister, that it is absolutely not acceptable that just after electrification of a line in Flanders, electric motors be immediately affected, to the detriment of rural and semi-rural lines in the Charleroi region. You will allow me to say that this is particularly challenging. This choice raises questions. Beyond the justifications for this choice that you have mentioned, I think that behind, there may be choices guided by the desire to transfer this material to Flanders. By chance, at the same time, the N-VA president recalled that he wanted to regionalize SNCB. On the other hand, there is also a strategy to promote routes between large cities to the detriment of semi-rural and rural areas and lines which may be less frequented but which it is essential to keep for commuters, whether they are workers or students.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u33	Madam Minister, we have just decided that a separate follow-up meeting will be devoted to the safety and signalling aspects, but since this may not be for a few months, I would like to ask this question. We could read that no less than 92 trains were driven through a red signal last year. This is a significant increase compared to 2014. However, a distinction must be made between signal collisions on main and side lines, such as ports. It is worrying though that apparently 15 train collisions were narrowly avoided. In May 2015, I asked question No. 4414 on the signal collision in the North-South tunnel. A working group was set up within the Safety Platform to look for the structural causes of signal collisions. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Are the figures of the number of signals that we could hear in the media correct? How many critical signal collisions were there? What measures will be taken to reverse the tide? We have always said that training is important, but also follow-up and after-care for train drivers is important. Are the measures taken in the past still in force? The recommendations will be discussed here. Is there always a check on whether TBL1+, or the ETCS system, is present in the case of signal collisions? After all, I understand from the ground that it would not always work. During the visit of this committee to the workshop Klein Island in Anderlecht we learned that there are trains that cause defects in the TBL1+ beacons on the Belgian rail network. How many faulty beacons were there in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u34	Madam Minister, as Mr Geerts has already explained, Infrabel's figures show that in 2015 many trains drove through the red light. 92 more specifically, or 26 more than the year before. Following the fall in 2013, the number of signal collisions continues to increase. From the trains driving through the red light, as outlined, more than half stopped shortly after the signal. 40 trains came to a stop at a risky place. In 2014, it was still 38 trains. There is therefore a relative reduction in the number of potentially dangerous situations. Where is the explanation for the increase in signal collisions? Why have more trains been running through red since 2013? What's changed since then? According to Infrabel, human factors such as scattering or misjudging often lie at the basis of signal collisions. Last year, this increase was attributed to the number of incidents involving freight and work trains. Is this merely an assessment by Infrabel? After each signal collision, will there be an objective examination to determine the cause? If so, how does the investigation proceed? Finally, as requested by our colleague, what concrete measures does Infrabel propose to reverse this upward trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u35	Minister, I would also like to ask you about the number of fires on the rails last year. The latest statistics provided by Infrabel indicate that 92 red lights were burned on rail in 2015, compared to only 66 in 2014. Passenger trains are responsible for more than half of these signal exceedances. It should also be noted that 40 of these offences have been dangerous, allowing the train to reach a real danger such as a switch or a crossing. For example, 15 accidents were prevented by the safety system in place or the driver's reflex. In response to these figures, SNCB is said to have committed itself to raising the awareness of train drivers, while Infrabel continues to equip the ETCS automatic braking system network. Minister, can you inform me in more detail about the awareness-raising measures that will be undertaken with regard to train drivers to prevent these dangerous situations? Are other measures also under consideration to combat this problem? Can you inform us about the current status of the ETCS automatic braking system on our rail network? Have your services defined a date on which they hope to see the entire network equipped with the said system as recommended in particular by the Buizingen Commission, in which I had participated during the previous legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u36	Madam Minister, the subject has already been sufficiently clarified. My question is specifically about monitoring the poor visibility of signals. The Buizingen Committee, of which Mr Geerts was chairman and I was a reporter, paid a lot of attention to this at the time. It was also discussed extensively in the report. How does the follow-up of low-visible signals happen? Is there a procedure for this with a clear roadmap? How are the responsibilities determined? How much time is there between the reporting of a poorly visible signal and the replacement or displacement of that signal? Is there a feedback culture within the SNCB Group? How many signals have been replaced or moved in recent years? I would have liked an overview of the period between 2011 and 2015. What are the arrangements regarding the use of a personal mobile phone or other devices while driving? This aspect was also addressed in the Buizingen Committee. Is that strictly monitored? Are sanctions given for this? How many times has that happened in recent years? My other questions have already been raised by my fellow Members, and I will not repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u37	In 2015, the number of signalling fatalities for SNCB passenger trains on the main tracks and access to the main tracks increased to 46. In 2014, there were 33. That number was already falling since 2010. The number of traffic accidents by freight trains controlled by SNCB's staff on the main tracks remained stable at 7. The number of hazardous points remained stable, 22 in 2015 compared to 23 in 2014. In 2015, the number of signal collisions by vehicles driven by SNCB staff on the side tracks increased to 38. This increase is mainly due to a better record of events. With regard to signalling fatalities by SNCB personnel, there were 31 cases of 53 TBL1+. SNCB was working with Infrabel on the preparation of an update of the action plan on Sein collisions for the period 2016-2020. A critical performance indicator (KPI) will also be included in the first contract of Infrabel and SNCB. SNCB's ETCS masterplan provides that all SNCB rolling stock assigned to public service missions will be equipped with ETCS in 2023. To date, 29.2% are equipped and operational with this security system and all actions have been taken within SNCB to meet the 2023 deadline as set out in the masterplan. The primary cause of a signal collision is usually inattention of the train driver. Before they insure their first independent service, the newly certified train drivers receive an additional day of training, fully dedicated to preventing signal accidents. During the course of continuous training, the theme of traffic accidents is a permanent component. In addition, additional simulator exercises focusing on the prevention of signal collisions will be developed. All signal collisions shall be examined in a detailed manner. At the time of the facts, a so-called First Investigator of SNCB is summoned. If the driver's fault is deemed to be proven, he shall be subjected to a medical-psychological examination. The train driver concerned then follows an adapted training course and takes a practical and theoretical examination. That exam is focused on the incident. If the train driver is successful in the tests, he shall be accompanied on his first duty by staff. Two more guided rides will follow later. There is also close cooperation with Infrabel with regard to the placement and visibility of the signals. Riding experience reports are also published regularly, which discuss signs of collisions, including the necessary recommendations. From initial training and subsequently during continuous training and during the service itself, staff are taught a safety culture. The regulations of drivers clearly state that only the multimedia provided by the employer may be used during driving. It's forbidden to have a conversation during the ride. Poorly visible signals can be e-mailed in real time by the train driver to the regulator via a specific procedure or by means of a service telegraph. The necessary time to make adjustments to the visibility of a signal may vary from a few days to a few months or even more than a year. For a few years now, in cooperation with Infrabel, a procedure has been optimized in which, in the form of a text message, feedback is given to train drivers, following a notification of an irregularity to the signalling device.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. We must, of course, always put the figures in perspective. There are 3 700 trains every day. On the other hand, it is important for Parliament to keep following up on the point, because despite the many efforts you have listed, we can see that the figure is still rising somewhat. I am well aware that the relativity of this figure must also be mapped out. At one of the next committee meetings we will perhaps be able to discuss this with the railway company itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u39	Madam Secretary, I agree with Mr Geerts. I hope that the measures you have described and the initiatives you have listed will be able to reverse the upward trend in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u40	Thank you for your answers, Minister, and for having detailed the measures that are being taken to try to stop this phenomenon of passing the red light to the maximum. There is, however, a sad finding, that is the increase. Of course, and I agree with Mr Geerts, the figures must be put into perspective, but I would also like to have an opportunity to speak to them orally at a forthcoming committee meeting with the SNCB officials. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u42	Mr Top and Mr Dallemagne are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u43	Madam Secretary, the question is a little out of date. It is about the tunnel saga, which we have heard a lot about, read, experienced. The idea of lifting a tunnel toll does concern me a bit and not just me. Madam Secretary, I'd like to hear your views on that. Do you think it is a good way to finance the infrastructure in this way? I would like to be clear about the use of the EUR 500 million already paid for mobility. Will agreements be reviewed? I ask that question because I want to know your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u44	I do not need to comment on the intentions of a regional minister regarding regional competence. I do, however, share your opinion on the more global need to consider mobility in Belgium and in Brussels in particular, but this presupposes that all policy levels accept cooperation. The EUR 500 million transferred to the Brussels-Capital Region during the sixth state reform must remain the answer, as this is also the exclusive competence of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u45	When it comes to mobility in Brussels, there must certainly be consultation between all the relevant policy levels involved in mobility. The state reform was, of course, created here in Parliament. There have been difficult discussions. The fact that we do not know what the region is doing with the money is something that I find poignant. This must of course be asked of the Brussels-Capital Region. The policy there certainly has an impact on everyone's mobility. That is why we must be concerned about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 8984 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u47	Madam Minister, a while ago in Het Belang van Limburg reference was made to the possible closure of some stations in Limburg. It would be the stations of Tongeren, Sint-Truiden, Genk and Neerpelt. During last year, the stations of Bilzen, Lommel and Leopoldsburg had to close the doors. In 2020 there would be a single station in my province: Hasselt. Is that information correct? Will SNCB close the stations of Tongeren, Sint-Truiden, Genk and Neerpelt? If so, has a specific timing already been set? Will the closure be compensated by the placement of additional ticketing machines? The rumours about the closure of the stations come from the same angle as the rumours about the closure of the signal house in Hasselt. I questioned you about that once. I therefore think it is a good idea that you should once again clarify the future of that signal house. Are there any plans to shut down or close down the signal house in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u48	Madam Minister, the problem of the closure of stations and their transformation into stopovers is not limited to the province of Limburg. In this information disseminated by the media, it is striking that throughout the province of Limburg there would remain only one station worthy of the name. This is particularly shocking, but it refers to the general problem of closing stations. The problem of the Virton station, which is also concerned with this kind of plan, was mentioned. It is therefore far from being confined to Limburg. We are already in a logic of profit, but I fear that I will return to a dehumanized view of the rail. We've talked about one man because we're taking out the train attendants; here, we're removing the ticket machines. The staff is increasingly reduced and travellers are confronted with a dehumanized SNCB. On 550 stations and stops, there are 400 stops. Stations have thus become exceptional in our country. I give you the testimony of a counterman: "Management sees the counterman only as someone who sells a ticket. But that's not true! We're doing a lot more than that. There is a social role at the counter: we advise people, we tell them the most advantageous formula, we can reassure them also, we tell them the timetable of the trains, we make the subscriptions. As many people are illiterate, I often write the ticket (e.g. a Rail Pass) for travellers. With the end of the counters, it is all this social role that will be destroyed. An automaton will never replace this social role." Minister, I know that you like the numbers and that you handle them with dexterity, but sometimes you have to get out of the numbers and see the human side of a policy as well. Can you confirm the plan to close the stations in Limburg? Can you give us a list of all Belgian stations threatened with closure by the end of the legislature? Do you not think that the existence of stations and counters is part of the elements (with the offer of trains, punctuality, safety, cleanliness) that could promote mobility favouring rail transport? If all these criteria are reduced, rail supply will be reduced and the challenges faced will no longer be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u49	Mr President, the SNCB does not have a plan for the complete and definitive closure of windows before the end of the legislature in the province of Limburg. The maintenance of a point of contact is justified by the number of passengers receiving the station and by the level of activity associated with the reception of those passengers. The closures that were carried out in 2015 took place at stations where the activity rate was less than 40%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u50	Madam Minister, you replied very briefly to the question on ticket machines. I live in the neighbourhood and I will personally try to determine with you whether the number is right in relation to the number of travelers. I haven't heard much about the specific timing I asked, unless I haven't been paying attention, of course. Nor did you reply to my question about the rumor that the signal house would be closed. So I'm just gonna stay a little hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u51	I said there was no closure. So I'm not going to give you a timing in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u52	Since no stations are closed, you obviously do not give a timetable. However, my fourth question dealt with the rumor that the signal house would be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u53	There's no closure, so there's no timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u55	Madam Minister, I take note of your statement concerning the stations in the province of Limburg with satisfaction. Therefore, no closures or transformations are planned in the Limburg stations. That's good news. Is it a change of decision as a result of leaks in the press or was it originally planned? I don't know. I would have liked to have obtained a list of all the Belgian stations threatened with closure by the end of the legislature. It is a question that comes out of the strict framework of Limburg. Can you give me an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u56	Mr Van Hees, these are details. You can ask me a written question. I told you there was no closure project until the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u57	You only mentioned Limburg. But what about outside Limburg?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u58	The questions were joined because they concerned Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u59	Mr President, I take note of the Minister's refusal to respond beyond Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u61	A subject may be a little overwhelming. So I will ask questions for each province! You are encouraging us to inflate parliamentary questions. Services, administration and the firm will suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u62	Question No 9001 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u63	Mr. Chairman, it would appear that SNCB is about to review the prices of the Campus card again. After an increase of 3.31% at the end of 2015, this decision, if true, would mark a new event in the context of the general savings you are asking SNCB. While increasing the attractiveness of rail would increase commercial revenues, there is concern that the reverse may occur. The consequences would be perceived by users. I would remind you, minister, that public transportation is a significant budget in the lives of students. Many people have no income, for whom the Campus card is the only discount being reserved for them. On the other hand, the Campus card is often only one part of a student's journey, which often combines several modes of transport, the prices of which accumulate. There are also rumours about the increase in the price of the Go Pass. However, it is a great opportunity for young people to travel, as well as a commercial gateway, allowing the greatest number of people to travel at a lower cost and become familiar with the train, eventually making it the chosen mode of transport once they enter working life. Can you confirm or invalidate the information that SNCB plans to increase the Campus card rate again? If so, what is the commercial gain expected by SNCB? Is it also on the agenda to change the Go Pass tariff? What is your policy on preferential tariffs, which will be at the heart of the discussions on the management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u64	Mr Cheron, today, SNCB only adjusts tariffs per year, i.e. on 1 February. The increase in the price of the Campus card on 1 February 2016 represents in absolute terms only a 40 cent increase for a distance of 60 km. In 2015, prices had not been adjusted. The Go Pass 10 product has been priced 51 euros since 2014. As for the Go Pass 1 product, it has been priced at 6 euros since 2013. Its price was reduced compared to 2012 when it cost 6.5 euros. No price adjustments will be made in 2016 for these two products. Young people are a priority target. This clientele has a wide range of products at attractive prices, including the introduction of the Go Unlimited during school holidays, which represents a week or a month's subscription to travel anywhere in Belgium for an extremely attractive price.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u65	I take note of your answers and will remain particularly attentive, particularly in the context of the ongoing renegotiation of the management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u66	Mr President, Minister, it appears that a royal decision was taken on 18 December 2015 which decided to extend by one year the use of the lines equipped with the Memor crocodile system which would be permanently removed from service by 1 January 2016 until December 2016. The reason I have heard is that a number of private operators were not ready. We have considered this for a long time and I know that it is not clear or legal to impose TBL1+ on private operators, given that TBL1+ is not a recognised European system. In my opinion, the trigger was given by the abolition of the Memor crocodile system, especially on lines on which ETCS has been rolled out. We have already referred to the figures for traffic accidents. So I will not repeat them. My questions are as follows. Why was that royal decision made? Which railway operators were not actually ready? What lines equipped with ETCS and TBL1+ can still exceptionally continue to run trains equipped with Memor crocodile equipment? This means that the infrastructure manager has made huge investments, but that the wagon that runs on that line does not correspond and therefore the investments have no value. This also means that the risk cover is not going to apply, because the locomotive is not properly equipped, we have made a whole table and calculation will not apply. What companies did not meet the deadline of 1 January 2016? Do fines hang on to the fact that they didn't pass the previous royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u67	Mr President, Mr Geerts, the suppliers of on-board equipment for the locomotives of goods had been delayed considerably in the design, approval and, consequently, the equipment of these locomotives. The delay was so great that it became impossible to reach the date of 1 January 2016. Holding on to the date of 1 January 2016 would have meant that between 70% and 80% of rail freight was no longer possible. This immense modal shift to road transport would inherently involve more road deaths. The shift of the date by about one year allows for the completion of the rolling stock programme, while the safety level is expected to increase in the course of 2016 by gradually increasing the deployment of equipped locomotives. These are lines already equipped with ETCS in 2015 or earlier. This means to a large extent the lines forming part of the European freight corridor North Sea-Mediterranean, in Belgium the link between the port of Antwerp and the Luxembourg border. I'll get you the map with the details. Only SNCB would have been in full order for its domestic passenger transport on 1 January 2016. No other company in Belgium operating under its own licence would have completed its entire fleet in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your statement of the postponement and the taking of the Royal Decree. I'm gonna sit here and ask you about the homologation. Is it really about problems due to our agencies, so the FOD and DEVIS or the operators themselves? If it were up to us, it would be logical, of course, for the delay to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 9097 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u70	Madam Minister, I have read in the press but also in the minutes of the Flemish Parliament that you and your colleague Minister for Mobility in the Flemish Government, Mr Weyts, had differences of opinion in the context of a multi-criteria analysis of the investment cell and the preparation of the multi-annual investment plan. The Minister said in the Flemish Parliament and in the press that he felt that the transport of goods was underexposed to date and that the investments in this area were not sufficiently proportionate. He expressed reservations about the use of the available budgets. During that debate in the Flemish Parliament, the Minister also said that he had no idea of the ratio of the savings of SNCB 53/47, 19.54 operation, 80.46 investments, Infrabel 100 percent investments and so on. I think it is correct to hear only one bell ringing in other parliaments or in the press to hear your views on this too. I have allowed myself this freedom. What is your response to Minister Weyts' statements in the Flemish Parliament? Was that multi-criteria analysis effectively validated in the government? If it causes discontent in the coalition, then what is this discontent and how do you think the government will get out of it? Have there been any formal signals to you from the Regions? The state of the investment cell has just been requested. What answer do you give, and with that, I link my questions 6, 7 and 8 from my written preparation to the criticism of the various regions that they have not been sufficiently involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to hide my surprise at the fact that my Flemish colleague responsible for Mobility would have complained about the operation of the investment cell. This is the first time that the regions have been so closely involved in the decision-making of the railway investment choices to be made. The methodology for the preparation of the multi-annual investment plan 2016-2020 has been discussed and approved by two inter-kabinets working groups on 14 October and 23 October 2015. 9 criteria are being worked out, partly as a result of the strategic vision I proposed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 15 July 2015: comfort travelers, offer intermodality travelers, maintenance of safety, security and social security, impact on population and environment, productivity gains and link with the European context. In addition, a number of framework conditions were imposed such as the maturity of the proposals within the period 2016-2020, the added value for the customer and standardisation and coordination of investments. The importance of the criteria will be determined by the strategic level of the investment cell. At the administrative level, Wallonia followed by Flanders has indeed expressed its concern about the minor importance which, in their view, was attributed to freight transport in the defined criteria. The transport of goods is included in the analysis through the supply criteria and in relation to the European context. The administrative part of the investment cell came together five times so far. The methodology was explained at the first meeting. A number of project proposals were already discussed at the next meetings, as well as a number of questions and concerns regarding methodology. The political level met for the first time last week. I am, of course, prepared to discuss the various projects submitted in Parliament, but at this stage of the analysis it seems to me that this is too early. However, it is still my intention to complete this work during the first trimester of 2016. It is true that the final amounts to be allocated to Infrabel and SNCB on operating and investment grants are still being negotiated, taking into account the savings requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u72	I thank the Minister for her reply and take note of it. I'll check it out. It is absolutely not my intention to fight in this coalition. That's not in my character. When I look at the different answers in the Flemish Parliament and in this committee, my conclusion is that it remains a ping-pong game. It doesn't help anyone. The duty of an opposition is tooppose. That is true, but then one must also know what one opposes. If you get two different visions, it becomes difficult. It is not a good thing to oppose that. The most important thing, however, is that a ping-pong game does not help the traveller at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van de Velde's 9157 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u74	Madam Minister, we have spoken on this subject a number of times in this committee, but also in the plenary session, in response to a number of statements you have made here and in a number of newspapers, in particular that until the GEN-Brussels is fully completed, the other major suburban networks around the major cities will not be eligible and will not in any case be started. We all know that the Brussels GEN is lagging behind. Can you confirm that the work will be fully completed by 2025, because this is also the subject of discussion? There is also a discussion as to whether the Brussels Gen will be completed in full. If we have to wait with the big cities until after 2025, then we have a big problem. Traffic congestion is not only in Brussels, but in all major cities. Yesterday in the Committee on Climate Change we saw figures on the alarming situation. If we continue to use the car in this way, we will have major problems in the future. Then we will also fail to meet the standards imposed on us at the Paris climate conference. A number of public transport issues must therefore be dealt with, especially around the major cities. I've limited my questions to Ghent. My fellow Members have questions about other major cities. Madam Secretary, what about the date? Is the Brussels GEN still aimed at 2025? Will we only start with the other major cities after that? However, the administrative agreement not only talks about Brussels but also about all the other suburban networks. When will the suburban network around Ghent be effectively launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u75	Madam Secretary, I will not repeat the introduction. Mr Temmerman has already outlined it, and she has been extensively mentioned in the press and in this committee over the last few weeks. I understand from those earlier statements that the suburban network for Antwerp will also have to wait until the GEN in Brussels is fully realized. The suburban network in Antwerp is actually very difficult to compare with that in Brussels, because no new infrastructure needs to be built in Antwerp. The tracks are already there. It's just about increasing the frequency on the existing lines and optimizing those lines. This means that there is a very limited cost picture of the GEN in Antwerp. There have also been successful talks between the cabinet of Minister Weyts and other interested parties such as SNCB, Infrabel, the Agency for Roads and Transport, the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works and the Antwerp ships of mobility. Mr Palmieri even gave a full account of this issue in the Antwerp City Council. Of course, there were also conversations with your cabinet. That makes sense, because the study on the development of a GEN in Antwerp is mentioned in the coalition agreement. These talks have made it clear that the frequency increase on some lines can already be achieved by December this year. A rapid launch in Antwerp is therefore possible, unlike in Brussels. You have already said in the past that there is no point in starting the GEN in Antwerp because 28 000 seats remain empty on trains arriving in Antwerp. Contrary to that statement, the city network in Antwerp is absolutely necessary, because the chaos will come, as far as it is not there yet. The works on the Noorderlijn, Noorderlijn, Noorderlien and the Island, started this week. They are very radical roadworks in Antwerp, especially for the northern part of the city. Furthermore, Oosterweel and the reconstruction of the Scheldekaai are also arriving. The new reduction and mobility plan Slim to Antwerp should encourage public transport and alleviate the nuisances of these works. GEN Antwerp plays a crucial role in this. A rapid launch of the suburban network in Antwerp is therefore not only possible but also much needed. Madam Secretary, I have a number of questions for you. Are you aware of the possibility of a quick and cheap launch of the Antwerp suburban network? In that light, do you think your argument of chaos is still valid? Based on what figures do you arrive at 28 000 empty seats in Antwerp? Is it possible to eliminate the number of empty seats with a custom-made suburban net? Do you also consider it necessary to limit traffic congestion in the city and actually even throughout the country during the work on the Oosterweel connection and the main Antwerp inner city axes? The vessels of Mobility of Antwerp Koen Kennis sees in the suburban network of Antwerp an opportunity for SNCB to attract new travellers during the road works. Do you share that opinion? In what way does the finalisation of the GEN Brussels prevent the start of the GEN Antwerp? In other words, will you still set up the GEN Antwerp in this legislature as the government agreement dictates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u76	Madam Minister, a mini-debate on the GEN was held on 2 February. For Antwerp, I would like to quote from the Minutes. You said: 'For Antwerp, I refer again to earlier research which shows that there are more than 28 000 free seats to Antwerp in the morning rush from the seven directions from where the train arrives. In a radius of 30 km around Antwerp, 80% of the stations are operated at least twice an hour. Almost a quarter of the stations are operated four times an hour. There is therefore sufficient supply during rush hour. That is why I have stated that the creation of even more offers is not necessary at the moment and is not advisable. I could read that in the report. However, this does not seem to me right. Look at the traffic jams around Antwerp and its social and economic cost: 25 kilometers to Herentals and Zandhoven, 28 kilometers to Zoersel, and other traffic jams. Other fellow Members have also said it, a GEN light around Antwerp is not a question of infrastructure but of better organising the current offer. Our cost doesn't seem to be that high. I have some specific questions for you, Madam Secretary. You referred to earlier investigation. What investigation? Has research also been carried out on the wider mobility context which includes health costs in addition to congestion and social and economic costs? You were talking about seven directions. Which ones are they? You mentioned stations within a 30-mile radius that would be operated twice an hour. Either I'm missing something, or the time schedule is off. You also mentioned stations that would be operated four times an hour. Is the amplitude taken into account? For example, if two trains depart in Herentals at 10 minutes time, this means that you have to wait 50 minutes afterwards. Maybe those trains could be spread out better? Will the research into GEN Antwerp continue? What is the cost-benefit analysis of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u77	Madam Minister, we are returning to Ghent, but also to Antwerp and Brussels. Madam Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined the problem. In September, you replied to my question in this committee that there was a study going on to the suburban network Ghent, which was due to be completed by the end of 2015. I'm interested in the results of this investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we should limit the GEN dossier to the GEN around Brussels. As has just been mentioned, the supply around the other major agglomerations can also be optimised. I would like to emphasise that. There should be no games between the different cities. That is absolutely not conducive. We welcome and participate in any progress in the development of suburban networks in our country. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play with regard to the study of the suburban network around Ghent? What are the conclusions? According to that study, does it take infrastructure to get to a suburban network around Ghent? Is consultation planned with the municipal authorities on this matter? It is about an integrated study involving both train, tram and bus. Was there consultation with the Regions and other partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u78	We need to think about the name. For Antwerp or Ghent, GEN may create other expectations. In the case of Brussels, this meant heavy infrastructure investment. The Genus around Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi are of a completely different order. GEN-Antwerp does not require new train lines or stations, but above all a greater frequency, punctuality and comfort of trains and stations that can become real mobility nodes. Due to the works planned in Antwerp, there is a huge potential. Investments in bicycle and car parking should be made. Furthermore, it is mainly about a higher frequency and more trains on the lines towards city. I will not repeat the arguments of the previous speakers. The infrastructure fee also plays a crucial role in this story. Should it be paid today, it would take 63% of the total cost. This in itself is difficult to carry for SNCB. What is your view on GEN-Antwerp in the context of wider mobility? What's your ambition? What is SNCB's vision and ambition? During the theme debate last time, you said that SNCB had calculated the potential of drivers who could take the train to Antwerp. How many people are we talking about? Which regions are they from? In what way does SNCB want to get those drivers on the train? After all, SNCB's ambition must be to increase its share of the modal split. In what way does SNCB intend to improve the customer experience of the commuters? Is Infrabel willing to look at the infrastructure fee for GEN Antwerp as part of the global review of the usage fee? What is the state of affairs and timing? Can you explain the different ideas? Mr Cornu has already mentioned, for example, a freeze on the infrastructure fee. Finally, what is your ambition to achieve, together with regional and local actors, an integrated offer and an integrated tariff? There is also a good GEN within that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u79	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Demeyer. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Demeyer on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u80	Mr President, the coalition agreement states: "For the large urbanized agglomerations of Antwerp, Charleroi, Ghent and Liège, the development of a regional express network is being studied. With regard to Antwerp, I can tell you the following. In the course of 2015, SNCB gave me an update of its GEN study for Antwerp. SNCB's study contains an important chapter on train supply, but also, for example, a survey of traffic jams and an improvement in the combination of bus, tram and train. Indeed, the chapter on train supply contains 28 000 free seats. SNCB counted all IC and S trains to Antwerp between 6 and 9.30 a.m. on arrival in Antwerp. These are 79 trains with a total of 48 558 seats available, of which approximately 28 000 seats remain unoccupied. These 79 trains have 7 different starting points, namely Essen, Noorderkempen, Herentals, Heist-op-den-Berg, Mechelen, Puurs and Sint-Niklaas. As far as the frequency of these trains is concerned, 80% of the stations in a radius of 30 kilometres around Antwerp are operated in peak hours by at least two trains per hour. In the remaining 20% of the stations there is even a higher level of operation, sometimes more than four trains. However, SNCB, together with the city of Antwerp, has also carried out a study in the framework of the project Slim to Antwerp. This shows that there is a potential to win new customers for the train. The first studies carried out by SNCB together with the management company Antwerpen Mobile (BAM) show that there must be a first target market in the 10 000 cars originating from the entire Antwerp border. The strategy to recruit these customers should be based essentially on the quality of the offer, the punctuality, the accessibility via parking for both cars and bicycles and good switching to the tram and bus network. The following applies to Antwerp: there is sufficient supply, there are even thousands of free places in rush hour. We must therefore concentrate on those commuters who now opt for the car for their commuting. We must get these people on the train and we must therefore use sufficient and well-closed parking facilities and bicycle parking facilities at the stations with connections to and from Antwerp. SNCB can therefore undoubtedly play an important role in reducing congestion in and around Antwerp. Her role is crucial, along with the city, De Lijn, the BAM, the department of MOW and other parties. In addition, SNCB, together with the city and De Lijn, has taken initiatives to improve the integration of fares and tickets. I therefore partly understand the position of the Antwerp mobility ships Koen Kennis, in the sense that SNCB must be the backbone of well-developed public transport. SNCB also informs me that no final decision has yet been taken on the extension of the train supply. This extension is also taken into account in the discussions on the management contract, in particular the number of train kilometres to be requested from SNCB and the operating costs associated with it. SNCB is currently completing its GEN study. The preliminary conclusion is that it is desirable to set up a suburban network. The next steps are the concrete development of an offer and the improvement of the visibility of that offer. However, it is too early to comment on the details of train kilometres. With regard to Ghent, I can tell you the following. Also with regard to the suburban network around Ghent, SNCB informs me that no major infrastructure is needed and SNCB has not planned it. The suburban network of Ghent covers a zone with a radius of about 25 km around Ghent. The municipalities concerned have not yet been explicitly involved, but it is certainly intended to do so in the coming months. According to the study, there is indeed a potential to win new customers, on the basis of an improved offer and improved switching between the different forms of public transport. As for Antwerp, the study for Ghent is also currently being completed. I am not going to talk about Liège and Charleroi since colleagues are not here to ask the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u82	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I hope that the attention you give to Antwerp and Ghent is not proportionate to the length of your answer, because then there will be a problem in Ghent. The problems in Antwerp and to a lesser extent in Brussels are not that big in Ghent, but they are there. If we do nothing, they will be at least as big as in Antwerp. The only concrete answer I have now received from you is that there is a study in progress. You don't give a date and you don't say anything about what that study should contain, just that there's a study going on. Madam Secretary, I am sorry, but Ghent himself, together with SNCB and De Lijn, made a study years ago. I do not know which studies one has to do each time to install such a GEN. They already have those numbers. People know what the possibilities are. People know what needs to be done. That study was carried out under Mrs Lieten when she was head of De Lijn. It may need to be updated, but it does not need to be re-implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u83	Information from SNCB is that the studies for the AnGeLiC project, which includes all the express networks around the major cities, will be presented in the short term within the SNCB Board of Directors because apparently the studies are carried out in parallel for the four projects. I can hear you saying that there are already many studies that have been done and that the information is on the table, but I am giving you the information that comes from SNCB: it will be presented in the very short term within the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u84	We will then wait and see what these new studies give, but once again, perhaps you should inform us what is already in place. Mr President, Minister, is it not possible to discuss the studies on Ghent, Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Brussels here in committee? Madam Minister, you also say that the study is under way, but I also understand that the municipalities concerned have not yet been contacted and will be contacted. That too is not really comme il faut. As in the past, it is intended that all stakeholders, De Lijn, SNCB, the municipalities and cities concerned, should carry out a study in one piece. Madam Secretary, I am sorry, but your answer does not reassure me at all. You say that we will soon be presented with the studies. I hope that will be real soon and, above all, that action will be taken after that. If we do not do so, we will face very serious problems. As is often the case in our country, it will be said that things should have been done sooner. A study will now be made and what will be the outcome of that study? This will show that a number of stations that are now being closed need to be reopened and that frequencies that are currently reduced need to be increased again. In this way one can continue to make studies and make savings which the studies then undermine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You said that SNCB counted 28 000 places on arrival of the trains in Antwerp Central. Did I understand that correctly, Madam Secretary? Yes. It'll make a lot of sense to me. Before the train arrives in Antwerp-Central, he stops in Antwerp-Berchem. I get on and off the train every day. I can assure you that the trains there are empty for at least half. That's a giant stepping-up and exit point. If SNCB based the figures on them, you can immediately order a new study that takes Berchem into account. When I see trains arriving in rush hour, I see no one stuttering about an oversupply of places, quite the contrary. There's definitely a problem. You refer to the coalition agreement, which states that a study will be carried out. That's what happened. The SNCB has come to present itself to the city council of Antwerp, before New Year's Eve. It has been said that, provided that the total road fee to Infrabel can be maintained at the level that is currently being paid but that there can be more trains, those lines can even be profitable. I see very little obstacle to doing so quickly. Such a GEN is absolutely necessary in Antwerp. It has to cost very little or no money, so what is stopping us from moving forward, reducing traffic jams and getting more commuters to public transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with the comments made by Mr Klaps. Berchem is indeed an important transfer point for travellers who, for example, have to go to Brussels from Heist-op-den-Berg or other regions. That's an important nuance. I call for the study to be made available to Parliament. If we are going to have the debate on the substance of the matter in the foreseeable future, I think it is right that Parliament should have the same information. This can only improve the quality of the debate. The questioners on Liège and Charleroi are not present, but I think it is very important that the necessary investments are made there too. I think it is more of a supply and less of an infrastructure problem there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u87	Madam Minister, as far as the study is concerned, we have heard nothing new. That's very unfortunate. The study was promised by the end of 2015 and we are now two months later. As far as Ghent is concerned, I am pleased that you confirm that no major infrastructure is needed. That is an important matter and I dare to draw the following conclusion. If no major infrastructure is needed, why can't a roll-out of the Ghent Gen? I want to ask that question politically. Do you also think that, since there is no need for major infrastructure for the Ghent Gen, there is no need to wait for concrete steps to be taken and to work on them? Finally, what is your timing for that study? You say about the foreseeable future, but when can you come to Parliament with this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u88	I agree with what Mr Klaps and Mr Geerts said. I was already concerned, until you said you would look at the additional train offer, also in the light of the negotiations on the 2017 management agreement. At least that creates another opening. In the first part of your reply, you gave above all reasons why the offer should not be extended. That seems difficult to accept. The 28 000 seats are used as a reason not to extend. That's short notice. I've looked at the figures in detail. I think Berchem and Antwerp-Central have been put together in this. More than half of this is about the Antwerp-Brussels link. The flow towards Brussels is perhaps slightly larger than that in the other direction in the morning. I also looked at the number of empty seats in Brussels. We had 28 000 empty seats between 6:00 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. Between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. there are 32 000 empty seats in Brussels. In view of the heavy investment in the GEN, you cannot use the argument of 28 000 seats to prevent additional offers for Antwerp. It is said that on most lines towards Antwerp there are two and often even four trains per hour. This is again true of the axis Antwerp-Brussels. On the axis to Boom and Puurs, an ideal line for a suburban network, one train per hour runs during the week and no train on the weekends. How the hell can the inhabitants of that suburban region be convinced to turn the train into their main means of transport to Antwerp if there is no train on weekends? Everyone will agree that this is a full alternative to the car. On the high-speed line towards Noorderkempen, which serves a large area via the station in Brecht, runs less than one train per hour. With such an offer, it is very difficult to attract additional passengers and offer a full alternative to the traffic jams that literally appear next to the high-speed lines. There's still great potential. You're not closing the door yet. I find your arguments not to expand the offer to be questionable. Frequency and amplitude are very important to offer a full alternative and a full suburban network. After completing the studies, we are counting on you to create more clarity and provide more perspective for suburban networks. As chairman, I would add that the committee will ask the various studies after the completion and presentation on the boards to explain them in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u89	I hear everything you say but these are not my arguments, these are the first elements that come from the various studies that are underway today. There is no conclusion that has been reached, no formal presentation has taken place on the boards of directors. I agree to come here in Parliament, but there are management bodies that are sovereign and I must respect the work that is being done in these management bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u90	After the presentation on the board of directors, we can discuss them here. I think that's a good deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u91	Mrs. De Coninck is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u92	Madam Minister, it appears that the various trade unions submitted a strike notice on 1 February 2016. The reason is the restructuring of statutory pension liabilities. The KB mentioned in the walkways refers to an increase in the age of availability from 55 to 60 years. The trade unions fear a lack of air traffic controllers, particularly in the context of replacement and so on. This could lead to unsafe operational situations. The members of this committee have visited Belgocontrol several times. The CEO of Belgocontrol has also been on this committee. On 18 March, he said: "The number of employees has fallen sharply for a number of years. Investment is also being reduced. A catching-up operation takes place, both in terms of staff and investment. What steps have been or are being taken to resolve the social conflict? Is it recognised that the shortage of personnel weighs on the safety of air traffic in Belgium and that measures are needed in this respect? Does the Government intend to adapt the Royal Decree to the restructuring of statutory pension obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u93	Madam Secretary, Belgocontrol is an old very. In recent years Belgocontrol has emerged in this committee as a stepmotherly or poorly served government institution. There is a very low level of investment. The problem of airports is also well known. There is now a strike commitment for two reasons: after twenty months, additional air traffic controllers have still not been recruited and the end-of-life arrangements have not been worked out. We must also talk about minimum services in the event of a strike. Belgocontrol organizes our airspace. Keeping aircraft on the ground would be a financial and economic disaster for this country. Madam Secretary, can you tell us why these additional air traffic controllers have not yet been adopted? Can you tell us where you stand with the development of the end-of-life scheme? Another point is that of minimum service provision, including in Belgocontrol. Where do you stand on the draft text? Have you been able to take other measures to avoid the strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u94	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am not going to repeat everything that my colleagues have said, but there is actually a strike notice for two reasons: no promised additional staff and end-of-career settlement. An attempt to reconcile with management took place and it failed. What actions have you taken to respond to the demands of the unions and to ease the social climate of the company? Are you going to ensure the necessary budgetary appropriations to fund air traffic control? For the whole of 2016, you know that there is a hole in the original budget. Are you going to solve this problem in the near future during budgetary control? I also learned that the unions, instead of turning to the customers, as notice of strike, were not training for the Leuven Rechtdoor road. It is known that this route is imposed by the court with strong penalties for the federal state from 1 March or 1 April. That's a real problem! As training is not taking place, the aircraft will not be oriented and it will cost the federal state even more if this social conflict persists. I hope, Madam Minister, that you have made interventions to avoid these demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u95	Madam Minister, there is once again social unrest among the air traffic controllers of Belgocontrol. The debate is about many problems, from bad office chairs to software safety to end-of-life arrangements. The trade unions are threatening to harden the protests. Last week's discussion between your cabinet and the trade unions would have yielded little. It is regrettable that neither the Minister responsible for Belgocontrol nor the Minister responsible for Pensions was present. The government wants a proposal to be drawn up, in consultation with the social partners and without prejudice to the right to strike, which nevertheless provides for a guaranteed service in the event of a strike. Madam Minister, what is the state of play on social dialogue for the fourteen problems identified? How do you facilitate social dialogue? How do you view the issue of the presence of ministers in the consultations? What criteria do you advocate with your colleague, responsible for Pensions, regarding the gravity of the appeal? What is the state of play and the timetable set out in relation to the guaranteed service provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u96	Colleagues, the management and trade unions of Belgocontrol concluded an agreement in June 2014 providing, inter alia, for transitional measures for staff who have reached the age of lay-off in 2014, 2015 and 2016. These transitional measures have been implemented. In terms of recruitment, 13 new air traffic controllers were recruited in 2015 in accordance with the 2015 Personnel Requirements Plan. The number of air traffic controllers required depends, inter alia, on the systems and working procedures deployed, productivity levels and traffic pressures. If there is a shortage of staff at certain times, the traffic flow is adjusted. This has an impact on the performance of the company and the service, but not on safety. On 1 February 2016, the trade unions of Belgocontrol filed a strike notice. In response, a first conciliation meeting was held within three days, on 4 February, as required by the syndical statute. It was agreed to discuss the requirements at three conciliation meetings, in particular on 8, 9 and 12 February, with a view to reaching an agreement. The reconciliation failed. In particular, no agreement was found on the files of the disponibility. The disponibility issue concerns air traffic controllers affected by the two pension reforms since 2011. The decisions necessary to this end are part of the pension reform and the discussion on the heavy professions which the government is working on. The discussions between the management and the unions on minimum services started in 2015 and will continue in 2016. Several draft texts have been prepared and discussed, but no agreement has yet been found. My office and the office of the Minister of Pensions met with the trade union organizations on 23 February in order to relaunch the social dialogue. A proposal for a solution has been formulated for a gradual increase in lay-off from 55 to 58 years by 2022. The proposed solution should now be discussed within the social consultation bodies of the public sector. Of course, the safety of air navigation must not be overlooked in the debate. Regardless of their age, air traffic controllers undergo medical examinations and must be declared fit to retain their licence. The organisation of training and the development of careers must take into account cognitive ageing so that everyone can contribute to the safety of air navigation according to their skills and experience. As regards the transfer of knowledge and the redeployment at the end of the career, Belgocontrol, like all companies, must explore the various possibilities by taking into account technological progress and the evolution of working methods. The number of air traffic controllers required depends, inter alia, on the systems and working procedures deployed, productivity levels and traffic pressures. If there is a punctual staff shortage at certain times, the traffic flow is adjusted. This has an impact on the performance of the company and the service to the customers, but not on safety. Finally, I have submitted a request for the budgetary conclave for the necessary funding of Belgocontrol. Negotiations will begin at the end of this month. In response to Leuven Rechtdoor, negotiations are still under way. So I cannot tell you today whether there will really be a delay or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. We were able to read today that the strike has been suspended and that we are going to sit down again at the table. I think that's a good signal. I will not interfere in my reply any further. I believe that social dialogue should once again be given ample opportunity. Let us hope that this opportunity will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u98	Madam Secretary, I express the same hope. Firstly, I hope that social dialogue will lead to results. Secondly, I hope that you, as a minister, will be able to put enough on the table during the budget conclave to finally revive the worried child Belgocontrol. We have been complaining for years about the difficult operation of this institution. It is high time we had a definitive solution. We are counting on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u99	I also thank the Minister. Good if the notice is lifted and social consultation works. I think there's really a need for additional staff because when there's not enough staff, it's the company that pays the price directly as its business decreases. March 21st is tomorrow. If this training does not start, it may cost the state much more. I asked the same question to the Minister of Pensions to see what he's doing on his side. We know that there is a problem today in Belgocontrol because of the successive reforms voted by the majority. I also hope that you will find a budget – I think you have a very high demand – in the context of the budgetary conclave that will begin in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u100	Madam Secretary, thank you for the comprehensive answer. However, you did not answer the question about the state of play and the timing of the guaranteed service. I would have liked to have had an answer to that. On the whole, I think it is a good thing that we are talking again and that, in the context of the social dialogue, we can solve the problems that exist today at Belgocontrol. I hope that you will also play your part in reaching a negotiated solution and that you will consult with your colleague from Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u101	Madam Minister, I would just like to briefly point out that in my question I would simply like to give an example of how the app works wrong, but also how the web application for the train routes works wrong at weekends. I just ran another test, and until today, it's still wrong. I'm doing it for other trajectories, too. It's gonna be a mistake for a while. If you are looking for a train route from Harelbeke to Antwerp during the weekend, both the app and the web application propose to take a route via Kortrijk. The train will therefore return from Harelbeke to Kortrijk to leave for Antwerp for the sake of clarity. So that's actually an extension of the ride. All tickets with a designated route between Harelbeke and the northern station Antwerpen are not valid because the route via Kortrijk is in this case a detour. However, in this case, the app and the web application do not show any route with a switch in Gent-Sint-Pieters or Mechelen, although this should be the route. This is completely illogical when one sees that the indicated route via Kortrijk also takes half an hour longer than the mentioned route via Ghent or Mechelen. That is why I would have liked an answer to my questions. A number of tickets show the route. It is not only the case that people are first and foremost longer on the train and make a detour, but also that they can get a fine. Can someone in this case get a fine if one follows the detour via the indicated route on the application or on the web application? One last question. For what reason are not all possible train paths presented?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u102	Mr Top, the following provisions apply to the route to be followed. If a ticket is not marked with a "Travel Road', the traveller must take the shortest route between the departure and arrival station on his ticket. If the ticket is marked "via "via ", the traveller is obliged to follow this itinerary. The passenger must also not move from his starting point on the same line and then pass there again. He may also not pass his arrival station and then return. The regulation is indeed complex in this respect. SNCB is currently reviewing the regulations to make them more customer-oriented, clearer and more consistent with reality. The information contained in the SNCB app indicates that this route is not permitted for any ticket. To travel via Kortrijk, the customer must have a ticket to and from Harelbeke-Kortrijk. Without this ticket, the passenger isn't okay. The journey Harelbeke-Antwerp with a transfer in Ghent is not presented during the weekend because it takes seven minutes longer than the journey Harelbeke-Antwerp via Kortrijk. The timetable does not take the regulation into account for 100 % but refers to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u103	Madam Minister, I note that you confirm that if a traveler tries to move to Antwerp with good intentions and according to the website and app, which is just an example because it is also the case for other routes, and he simply follows the guidelines and the application, he will be fined. He just doesn't get a chance to look up the web application to find the right path. In fact, and I am now going to present the Kafkaian of the whole system, if one asks today about the Harelbeke-Gent route on weekends, one has to change at Deinze. There are three stops between Harelbeke and Ghent: Waregem, Deinze and De Pinte. Just so we're clear, that's a direct train. The application manages to say that one has to switch to Deinze. I submitted my question on 25 January. If anyone had found it useful to change the application in the meantime, it would have been better, but it is still Kafkaian today. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u104	I would like to make it clear, however, that we are in a pure and simple operating environment. It is not the minister who deals with these kinds of issues. Your party has a representative on the board of directors. You can call him directly. It's really operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u105	Madam Minister, I am asking questions to the minister responsible for implementation and I am getting a non-satisfying answer. I'll give you the Kafkaian states. My question was tabled more than a month ago, you too could act, have given an order or insisted that it be resolved at least already. That is not the case, I simply note that people are persevering in this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 8957 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u107	Madam Secretary, I don't often come to this committee to ask you questions. I know that this is a specific question for a particular city and region, but I note that I am not alone in it. Many questions are asked here about specific cities or regions. My question concerns the station environment of Herentals. I know that a number of questions have already been asked, but I would like to ask them again because I would like to ask for a number of things and not simply to get the standard answers and refer them to previous replies from SNCB. We have had enough of those standard answers and the city council of Herentals wants to go into consultation with Infrabel. That is their main concern. My oral question therefore serves to draw Infrabel's attention to the fact that this matter must be taken up with the municipal administration of Herentals. My question consists of two shutters, in particular the masterplan of the station environment of Herentals and the specific problem of the opening hours of the consideration. The masterplan of the station environment of Herentals was completed in early 2013. The project includes several works to be carried out in the coming years. The finality is to convert the station into a turntable where all traffic flows flow together and improve the relationship between the station and the residents. There would be room for 700 parking spaces, kiss-and-ride zones, bicycle sheds and infrastructure for hikers and cyclists. The master plan also includes undertunneling of the railway crossing at Olympiadelaan and undertunneling of the Powderleesteenweg under the railway. That last element is crucial to solve the traffic problems that have been known for years at the ovonde. Because of the new multi-annual investment programme, it is unclear which of these plans can continue and when. It is in this respect that the local government of Herentals would like to go further in function of its own mobility planning and policy on road safety and mobility to know where they stand. That's a first element. The second element of the question concerns the specific problem of the opening hours of the consideration. In principle, as you have said a few times, the opening time is calculated on the basis of the time of announcement, the time of passage and the time for opening the barriers. This calculation ensures that the waiting times on the road can also increase seriously in Herentals. Safety is of course very important, but if the waiting times are too long, some people risk ignoring the red lights or barriers and still crossing them. In this way life-threatening accidents are repeatedly considered, not to mention safety, about circulation and traffic impact throughout the centre of Herentals. It's a constant frustration when you stand there. The entire mobility in the city centre of Herentals turns there in the soup by keeping the railway crossings long closed. Of course, the internal consultation between Infrabel, the SNCB and the local authority in question in the light of the mobility plans and traffic plans of the two is very important in relation to their own mobility in the city centre, linked to mobility guaranteed by public transport. Very important in the second part of my question is to be able to reach a consensus, to reach a decision and to make progress in both mobility plans. Madam Minister, first of all, has the project of the station environment of Herentals been discussed in the investment cell? If so, I would like a brief report. If not, will that happen? Secondly, when will we be clear about the investments at Herentals station? Will there be clarity about all the different projects within the master plan? Thirdly, what is the state of play of the multi-annual investment plan? Fourthly, may I ask you about the second part of my question, the opening hours of the railway crossing, to ask Infrabel to enter into effective consultation with the local authority of Herentals to review the opening time of the railway in question? In this case, can no tailor-made solutions be offered, rather than standard responses on opening hours? No progress is being made at the moment by not derogating from those standard opening times and...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to have a specific discussion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u108	A lot of questions are being asked here. Usually we try to keep an eye on time. I'm just gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u109	All investment projects proposed, inter alia, by SNCB and Infrabel are currently being analysed by the Investment Cell. The station environment of Herentals is part of these projects. The Investment Cell is not yet ready to carry out an analysis on the whole of the projects. It is planned to do so within a few weeks. Afterwards, we can proceed with a final design of a multi-annual investment plan for the period 2016-2020. Infrabel informs that its technical services are looking at any adjustments without compromising safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u110	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Keeping knocking on the same nail is sometimes useful. You may do the same with Infrabel and SNCB. In time, it pays off. I am glad that Infrabel and Herentals want to see an adjustment of the opening hours. Let me stress once again its importance. I'll notify the city council that they can contact them directly. I hope that something will come of it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u111	Mr. President, Madam Minister, as soon as you took office, you confirmed that your vision of efficient mobility required an integrated and intermodal public transport offer. This goes, as you have often said, through increased collaboration between different levels of authority with the support of regional transport companies and SNCB. Hence your initiative to create the platform of intermodality, bringing together all the actors mentioned and to enable better collaboration and greater coherence of the public transport offer, to the benefit of the citizens. This platform has since been the subject of an agreement with the regional governments within the Conciliation Committee. While it is obvious that intermodality requires a coordinated and thoughtful combined investment between the train (SNCB, federal level) and the bus (transport companies at regional level), can it not be assumed that an optimal modal mix should also be considered at local level with the municipalities and the provinces? Are not accessibility to railway stations or facilities (bicycle tracks) and car parks (bikes, cars) in the vicinity of railway stations also decisive factors in this intermodality? So, minister, do you not think that it would be appropriate to involve local levels of government in this reflection? Is this already foreseen in certain specific cases? Does the demand exist on their behalf?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u112	Thank you for your question, which allows me to recall that the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility had not met at ministerial level since 2003. It was relaunched this Friday, February 26th. It was decided that the meetings should be organised on a quarterly basis and that its operation should be simplified around three levels: ministers, heads of cabinet and the intermodality platform. The next meeting of our country's mobility ministers was held on 27 May 2016. This is an important stage of consultation between the Federal State and the Regions, which will have to allow, as foreseen by the Consultation Committee of October 2015, to work in particular on the definition of the lines of force of the transport plans 2017 and 2030 but also on the long-term vision of intermodal and sustainable mobility of the country whose railways form the backbone of the public transport system. In this context, I share your view that an intermodal view of the railway should not be limited to coordination with other public transport but should also include consideration of the accessibility of railway stations on foot, by bicycle or by car. These reflections should also draw on the expertise of many associations, which will be invited to participate regularly in the work of the platform. The idea of involving local authorities in the reflection also seems to me excellent, particularly in the context of the work of the intermodality platform. It will have to be developed in concrete local projects, where I expect SNCB to involve local and provincial authorities more closely in order to develop integrated mobility plans together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u113	Madam Minister, the municipalities will therefore be waiting for the invitations of SNCB and other actors. I agree with you that this is of paramount importance, in particular for the development of railway stations that are important for attractiveness, or to work on the various possibilities of access to rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, following the attacks of 13 November 2015 and the failed attack on 21 August in a Thalys on the Amsterdam-Paris cross-border line, France has decided to review its arsenal of security in the major railway stations. To this end, a test phase initiated by SNCF is under way to experiment with new counter-terrorism techniques in the major French stations. In addition to security portals and X-ray scanners installed on international lines, a futuristic surveillance camera system coupled with behavioral analysis software is experienced. This software would be able to detect signs of anxiety, suspicious physical behaviors, which may reveal harmful intent. These cameras should also be able to detect suspicious packages that remain on the ground for too long. Minister, do you have any contact with your French counterparts regarding this experimental project? Since the test phase started in December, do you know if the first results have already been analysed? Since international lines are at the heart of this scheme, the French Minister for Mobility believes that Belgium, along with the Netherlands and other countries connected by rail, should align itself with the security measures taken by France. In view of these elements, what are the tracks currently preferred in Belgium compared to software of the same type as that installed in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u115	Madam Minister, the subject is the same, but the approach is different from that of Mr Foret. I read that you are asking the government for EUR 58.5 million for the security of 295 gates and 257 scanners to be provided with surveillance. For that, 285 guards would be needed. It seems that within the government it has been said that every government partner gets part of the EUR 400 million and that you said before the MR that it is part of your party. That may be a negotiating strategy, but I have already asked here three or four times whether it is the best decision to put access barriers and so on in stations. Is that going to effectively stop major attacks? What impact does this have on domestic traffic? It will no longer be only for international traffic, but the closure of a number of platforms will also have additional effects on domestic traffic. Furthermore, people from Securail say that they are mainly used in international stations. They're barely getting on the domestic lines anymore. That's not good for the daily user either. Mr Foret said that the same movement is taking place in the other countries, but I do not think we should make the same mistakes of other countries. Is it true that you asked the government for the amount of EUR 58.5 million? What is the position of your coalition partners on this? Which stations do you think you should equip with the gates and the like? Is it for that extra security to recruit people from Securail or about outside people? Or is that task being outsourced? Is it true that we are talking about EUR 27,5 million? On what basis did that figure come into being? What happens in neighbouring countries Germany and the Netherlands? Are you planning additional measures for the social security of travellers not covered by these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u116	Mr President, I will not repeat myself. I refer to the Infrastructure Committee of 13 January 2016. Madam Minister, you said at the beginning of January that SNCB had delivered a proposal to you and Minister Jambon with various options to improve safety without hindering access to the train. Could you clarify the agreement within the government at the beginning of January? Anything else in the pipeline? Have you drawn any conclusions from the proposals launched by SNCB at the beginning of January? If so, which one? If not, what's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u117	Colleagues, the SNCB Executive Committee commissioned its Corporate Security Service (CSS) in 2015 to conduct research on the desirability of using facial recognition systems. This system must not only be integrated into the overall safety approach of SNCB, but also, as far as international traffic is concerned, be part of a homogeneous system between the countries concerned. For several years, CSS has been monitoring the development of more comprehensive video content analysis (VCA) systems, which can also detect abandoned objects, for example. The tests performed to date by suppliers have never been sufficiently conclusive. SNCB is already in contact with SNCF, which is awaiting the first analysis of these tests at the beginning of the second quarter of this year. SNCB has also asked the International Union of Railways' Safety Platform to reactivate its New Technologies Working Group in order to discuss, inter alia, advances in VCA cameras. It is true that I have asked the government to allocate EUR 58.5 million to put in place a system of measures to protect against terrorist acts in the railways, namely the installation of X-Ray gates and systems in all stations and the recruitment of additional staff. I also requested €23.8 million for the installation of cameras at all stations. As regards the allocation of EUR 400 million, an intercabinets working group is currently studying the file. At this stage, agreement was reached on the themes. As part of my expertise, it focuses on the installation of X-Ray portals and systems in international stations and the installation of 1,000 cameras. Subsequently, agreement on the content will have to be reached. With regard to the budget requested, it takes into account staffing requirements. Securail's officers are not guards but judicial police officers under the Railway Police Act. They also have specific powers of security officers to detain persons who have committed offences and to use handcuffs and sprays in self-defence. They also have a thorough knowledge of the railways. For all these reasons, I believe that outsourcing to the private sector would be inappropriate. SNCB, although a self-sustaining company, remains a public undertaking and safety is a public mission. With regard to the recruitment of additional Securail officers, I had requested 285 full-time equivalents for international stations, 168 for large stations and 12 for the management of surveillance cameras. As a result of the thematic agreement, 95 full-time equivalents will be recruited from international stations and an additional 5 full-time equivalents will be used to monitor cameras. To date, the Netherlands and Germany have not put in place a passenger screening system. The aim should be to achieve minimum uniformity of measures in order to achieve greater efficiency. However, Belgium will assume its responsibilities by adopting structural measures. The level of threat and the response to that threat varies from country to country. For example, increased vigilance was shown in the Netherlands. Camera surveillance was used and targeted checks were carried out. In Germany an equivalent of Securail is used. I have also asked the government to improve the control of personnel with access to certain sensitive infrastructure in the rail sector through the application of safety clearance legislation. I believe that it is necessary to use the system of safety notices in this respect, as is the case for those who have access to the airport area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u118	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that we will have to wait until the French experience before embarking on more expensive equipment. We had the opportunity to visit the camera command centre, which was very impressive. It is true that, even if it is well developed, progress still needs to be made. Let's wait for the results in the second quarter. I would also like to welcome the reinvigoration of the working group on new technologies, which had already been mentioned by addressing measures such as behavioural analysis by Securail agents. We are therefore taking the right direction in terms of seeking efficiency, obviously respecting certain budgetary constraints. Thank you again for your very comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u119	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Let me make it very clear in advance that our group is absolutely not opposed to measures to improve safety. We are asking whether, for example, the placement of gates is the most efficient way of looking at the cost to the taxpayer and its impact on domestic transport. I still have the impression, as I said in my introduction, that there was some will for all majority parties: for the N-VA and the MR that was clear; what CD&V received is less clear. I remember the attacks in Atocha, Spain. At the time, the placement of gates cost a huge amount of money, but did it effectively increase security? In London, investments were made in the subway at some point, but then terrorists endorsed the buses. Now we will invest a lot of money in gates, but is that a panacea and what is its impact? I am sorry, then, that the justification is only the division of the cake between the various governmental parties, without the substance of the debate on how security can be improved. During our visit it was also said that all the measures we will now take in Brussels, for example, will not be very effective if the Dutch do not participate. But you do not clarify whether or not to take joint action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u120	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Terror does not stop at the borders of our small country. I would therefore ask you to put the dossier on the European table. Of course, we must ensure optimum security, but the recent large files prove that terrorists are moving within Europe, between the different capitals. If the security approach is not streamlined at European level, then we are nowhere. I would therefore ask you, at the next meeting in which this dossier can be put on the table, to play a leading role and to call for a European approach to security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u121	Madam Secretary, testing in the central workshop in Gentbrugge established the presence of chromium 6 in the air. The limit value would have been exceeded several times. I just recently found out, but chromium 6 is an extremely toxic substance. The substance is corrosive to the eyes, skin, respiratory tract and very dangerous when taken orally. One could compare the substance with asbestos. Repeated and prolonged exposure may lead to skin irritation, asthma, kidney damage and the substance is carcinogenic. Chrome 6 also acts on the genetic material and may cause reproductive and fertility problems. So it's a dangerous thing. That toxic substance was released when sanding an old ground paint layer to the cabinets of the MR75, the so-called pig's nose. In 2015, SNCB invested nearly 150 million euros in the renovation of 44 trains. Some of the train sets are currently being dismantled and converted into the central workshop in Gentbrugge and will be used on the Turnhout-Binche line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u122	The discovery causes a lot of justified unrest among the workers. Since the start of the dismantling of MR75, no specific preventive measures have been taken. Work would be suspended at the moment until there was more clarity about the effects of exposure. However, they are aware of these consequences, because in June 2015 there was a similar incident in the Netherlands. The Dutch Railways announced that the employees of the maintenance company had been exposed for years to paint with chromium 6 from old train sets. During the meeting of 2 December 2015 of our committee, our colleague Geerts already reviewed the cause of the delay in the renovation. Even then, the rumor of the presence of asbestos was circulating, but you did not wish to reply at that meeting. It is indeed not asbestos, but possibly even more dangerous chromium 6. Madam Secretary, is it true that the workers in the central workshop at Gentbrugge have been exposed to chromium 6? What's the limit? How wide was it or not exceeded? Were you aware of these developments when asked by Mr Geerts in December 2015? Why were no preventive measures taken to protect staff? Was that because people weren't aware of it or were there other reasons? Has a risk analysis been carried out before the work started? Have there been incidents in past renovations, such as the MR Break, where toxic substances were released? What measures will you take to protect staff in Gentbrugge and, of course, in the other workshops? What conclusions have been drawn from the problems in the Netherlands? The same findings were made there, but it happened there a little earlier. I hope that SNCB has drawn its conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u123	Madam Minister, I submitted my question as a written question before the reports were in the Belgian newspapers, on the basis of the reports in the Netherlands. The question was tabled in writing at the beginning of December and I had to turn it into an oral question because it was not answered in good time. In the Netherlands, about a thousand people have been exposed to paint in recent years, because in the 1990s it was used for almost all trains. Today the paint is no longer used in the Netherlands, but hundreds of workers still come into contact with it, mainly when sanding the old paint layers. NedTrain, the Dutch maintenance company of the railway equipment, took measures to better protect employees in response to the reports. I asked you a few questions about this which are not specifically about Gentbrugge, but about all our workshops where they work with materials in which chromium 6 is incorporated. Was paint containing the carcinogenic substance chromium 6 used in one of the existing or former railway companies and/or its subsidiaries in Belgium? The answer to that is apparently positive. What period did that happen? Is that still working on it at the moment? How many people are still in touch with it today? How much does it come into contact with sanding old paint layers? Can you give me a detailed overview of this? Are there any acute risks for the staff? Has that been mapped out in SNCB's companies? Are adequate protective measures taken, such as masks and other protective equipment, so that no one can breathe the substance or get it on the skin? If not, how do you intend to tackle the problem and better protect the workers who come into contact with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u124	Minister, I don't know if you saw the movie Erin Brockovich, with Julia Roberts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u125	I don't have time to watch television, given all the questions I'm being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u126	Mr. Chairman, that was not my only question. This film talks about populations contaminated with chromium 6 or chromium trioxide, which has very serious health consequences, as my colleagues have pointed out. At the Gentbrugge workshop, at least one hundred workers were exposed to this product for a year and a half during the sanding of a painting on cars. It took a union reaction for SNCB to take the problem seriously. Measurements have shown that six to thirteen times the maximum exposure is exceeded. As proof of a serious problem, the work was eventually moved to a more secure workshop. The personnel who worked directly at sanding were therefore put in contact with this product, even if they were wearing protective clothing – but since when? Similarly, workers in the vicinity of this workshop are likely to have been affected. One union representative indicated that it was possible that these exhibitions lasted 20 years. Minister, do you confirm these facts? How many people have been affected? For how long? Have any precautionary measures been taken by SNCB? When were you and SNCB notified? What precautionary measures will SNCB take? What compensation is provided for those affected by chromium 6? More generally, do you not think that consideration should be given to the creation of a compensation fund, which could be jointly managed? Like asbestos, diseases caused by chromium 6 are not immediately reported. They occurred twenty years later. Should this compensation fund not be set up now so that money is deposited there and sick workers can turn to it directly without taking excessive judicial or administrative steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, until 1990 SNCB used chromatic primers. After that, it didn't happen again. The removal of old paint layers releases chromium 6 compounds. In the context of previous modernisation works in Mechelen's central workshop, the risks related to chromium 6 were thoroughly analysed in the period 2008-2010. These modernization works are therefore carried out on a regular basis in the central workshop in Mechelen. There was also investment in permanently separate rooms with dust extraction. In these rooms, staff wear protective suits with breathing protection and blown air supply. Due to capacity problems, it was decided at the end of 2013 to carry out the grinding work for a number of MR75 sets in Gentbrugge on a temporary basis. During the initial work between March and September 2014, no abnormal dust spread was identified, which led to the opinion that the protective measures were adequate. However, an increased dust development was observed at the start of series production in September and October 2015. Additional measures were therefore taken, such as the setting up of a shielded zone, an additional exhaust system and fans. At the request of the management, measurements were also carried out during grinding work on the four-wheel motor sets. According to the results, the limit values in the immediate entourage of the employees concerned have been exceeded by four to thirteen times. The tests were carried out with employees equipped with respiratory protection with air supply. Measurements previously carried out at the central workshop in Malines showed that even with an exceedance factor of 200, workers with respiratory protection with air supply were not exposed behind their masks to concentrations above the limit value. Nevertheless, the decision was taken to stop the work and transfer the activities to the central workshop in Malines. All workers in the central workshop in Gentbrugge who performed work on and in the car boxes (welding, ignition, discing, sanding, etc.) have been subjected to blood and urine biomonitoring to establish potential exposure to combinations containing chromium. The first results are reassuring. At the end of 2015, there were 369 medically monitored personnel for the chromium risk and its harmful combinations, and 122 persons were monitored for the metal risks (mercury, nickel and others, including chromium 6). These figures include both individuals monitored for the risk involved due to potential exposure in the past and those monitored due to potential exposure today. SNCB met the representatives of the city of Ghent on 10 February. She also sent a letter to the residents of the central workshop of Gentbrugge to explain the situation. I'll get you a copy of that. SNCB has also contacted the management of two schools near the central workshop. To the questions about the situation at the Dutch Railways I can answer that the NS has collected all the detailed information on the website. Making a summary of all the information available on that site would lead us too far. I will therefore give you the link: http://www.ns.nl/over-ns/chrome-6/chrome-6-bij-ns.html.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u128	Madam Minister, thank you for your sincere but very disturbing reply. First of all, Mr Van Hees pointed out just now that this government sometimes wonders why there are trade unions. Well, that is exactly why there are trade unions. Without unions, the people employed there would never have known what was going on. Above all, I find it disturbing that it was known that it was a very dangerous thing. In 1990 their use in the wagons themselves was no longer applied. From experience in the workshop in Mechelen it was known that it was still very dangerous at the dismantling, because the chromium 6 was released at that time. Nevertheless, work was started at Gentbrugge, without any protection and without informing employees of it. It was only after union action and after parliamentary questions were asked, which led to newspaper reports, that action was taken. The dose has been exceeded four to thirteen times. You say that this is not dangerous, but I am not an expert and therefore cannot express my opinion on it. I find it unimaginable that SNCB in Gentbrugge has deliberately failed to take the necessary precautions. After all, they knew what was going on, given the experiences in Mechelen. You say there are two schools nearby. The workshop is located in a large residential neighborhood, although completely closed, but I cannot believe that this risk is being taken. I hope that lessons have been drawn from this and that in future protection and precautionary measures will be taken in such work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u129	Madam Secretary, I agree with what Mrs Temmerman said. I am absolutely not reassured after this answer. The answer raises even more questions. Some people must have known. Is there no risk analysis when we know that trains are coming, that such work has to be carried out and that it is about the paint that contains certain products? You have to know that, don't you? Surely there must be a procedure to know how to deal with this and what protection is needed? Are such risk analyses not carried out in advance and are the necessary measures not taken on this basis? I ask myself questions about the way things are happening. As far as employees are concerned, you do provide some information and some figures. Medical examinations have also been carried out. I hope that the investigation will continue carefully at appropriate times and that a very professional follow-up will take place. As has been said, the effects may not be visible in the short term, but may only manifest themselves in the longer term. You were talking about communication with the locals. Shouldn't there be more to it than just communication? If these products are indeed distributed via dust and that substance has left the workshops, it may be necessary to check whether certain services should not investigate concentrations in the blood and, if dust falls, in gardens. I do not know what the risk derivatives can be, but only communicating seems insufficient to me. I think it is necessary to consider whether further investigations should be carried out nearby in order to minimise the risks of the disease. Madam Minister, I would like to call for this dossier to be followed very seriously and to instruct SNCB if it is not prepared to take further initiatives itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u130	Minister, you confirm the seriousness of the facts. I wonder if Julia Roberts won't have to go to Gentbrugge to shoot the sequel to the movie Erin Brockovich, Belgian version! Your detailed explanation has a series of shortcomings. Some things are incomprehensible. Why was the work done in Malines transferred to Gentbrugge? According to what you say, in Malines, the security measures existed and, in Gentbrugge, this was no longer the case. We therefore do not understand this development. Why do we have to wait for a union reaction to take action? That's alarming. Gentbrugge workers reported that the manager told them that in case of problems, it was enough to open the doors. This demonstrates a low level of responsibility for SNCB. I did not understand the distinction between the 369 people and the 122 people. Could you clarify that? Finally, I have not received an answer as regards compensation and, in particular, the implementation of a compensation fund. I conclude that you consider that it will take twenty years and that people are sick because of these exposures to be worried about how compensation will be awarded to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u131	Question No 9287 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u132	Madam Chair, in fact, I received two written answers after turning my written questions into oral questions! This is a method to use to get an answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u133	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the power cut at Belgocontrol. That seems like an eternity ago, but at that time, of course, that was less pleasant and it was less obvious that this would happen. It was on 27 May 2015 that air traffic stopped for five hours, with all the economic consequences. I have already asked a number of questions, along with other fellow Members, about possible claims for damages and about the causes. We are now eight months later and therefore I would like to ask this follow-up question. Both an external expert, Laboralec, and the Autonomous Air Accident and Accident Investigation Cell were called upon. Is there a final report today, eight months later, on the cause of the power cut? Is that at your disposal? How many complaints and claims for damages have been received in relation to this incident? For what amount? How many have already been dealt with effectively? Have those complaints and claims for damages been declared admissible? Who decides whether or not complaints are admissible? What lessons have been learned from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u134	Madam President, Mr Geerts, following the power surge, Belgocontrol has asked two independent study firms to carry out an audit of its electrical installations, to identify the technical causes of this incident and to verify the reliability of the technical installations of the various sites. On the basis of the results of the initial analysis, Belgocontrol made provisional adjustments to its installations. The reports of the external investigations will form part of the ongoing dispute before the court against those held liable. Belgocontrol has received a hundred complaints and claims for damages, for a total amount of around EUR 600 000. The power failure which occurred on 27 May was an extraordinary incident. Belgocontrol immediately made every effort to resolve this and to resume service as soon as possible, with the safety of passengers as the first priority. Belgocontrol does not consider itself liable for the incident and has therefore not responded to the claims for damages. Belgocontrol carries out a thorough analysis of the operation of its activities, from both a technical and an organisational perspective. The result of this last analysis is translated into an action plan to take action on the identified bottlenecks. The Action Plan sets out measures to be taken on the basis of identified learning points in the short, medium and long term. The implementation of this Action Plan has been launched and will take several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u135	Madam Minister, I note that no compensation has been paid today, because Belgocontrol does not consider himself responsible and speaks of force majeure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u136	Question No 9309 by Mr David Geerts is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u137	Minister, the Tubize Communal College has recently sent you a motion to draw your attention to the growing need to accommodate commuters at the Tubize railway station. First of all, there is a lack of parking spaces that are becoming more and more loud. Currently, 700 locations are required. Many commuters park in communal car parks and, in particular, on the site of Brenta for which the city has developed a project. As regards the reception of users in the railway station, it would appear that the opening of the ticket office has recently been limited. Finally, the municipal authorities draw your attention to the need to respond with an adequate supply to the demand of commuters who are constantly increasing. However, it would appear that the supply has decreased, while the number of passengers taking the train to Brussels is constantly increasing. Madam Minister, can you give me the reason why the SNCB does not want to set up a new car park on the outskirts of the Tubize railway station, which would improve the offer and thus encourage the inhabitants of Tubize and the surrounding area to take the train? Can you also explain to me why the opening of the ticket office in the station was limited? This partial closure seems regrettable to me, as it diminishes the quality of the reception of users. Finally, Madam Minister, do you intend to adapt the offer taking into account the increase in commuters from Tubize station to Brussels? I would like to take advantage of this question, which shows the need for a dialogue with the elected members of the Walloon Brabant, to ask you when you intend to organize the meeting – which I recently asked for in the RER – between your firm, Infrabel, SNCB and local agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u138	Mr Crusnière, the capacity of passenger car parks at the Tubize railway station is currently 574 pitches, including 474 on a communal land called "Brenta". In the short term, parking requirements are estimated at 700 places, but due to the lack of available land, it is impossible for SNCB to install locations near the station. In 2010, the city of Tubize and the intercommunal Brabant Wallon met with representatives of SNCB to present a project of urbanization of the Brenta parking lot. As a result of this loss of sites, SNCB attempted to purchase part of the site to maintain commuter parking. The city and the intercommunal refused. At the city's request, SNCB also analysed the creation of a car park on Rue des Forges. This location is not interesting for travellers, as it would be too far from the station and relatively isolated. In addition, the location and configuration of the land pose a problem in installing a parking lot with its accesses without hampering local mobility. The position of SNCB is to maintain passenger parking on the Brenta site. In addition, the multi-year investment plan does not include any budget for the Tubize station. The opening hours of the windows have not changed since 1 July. Weekdays are open from 5.45 a.m. to 8 p.m. and weekends and public holidays from 7 a.m. to 2.15 p.m. Thanks to the wide range observed during the week, commuters can benefit from a high quality reception. The shorter hours on weekends and public holidays correspond to the needs of travellers, who have an automated machine for their regular purchases. According to SNCB counts, 3,490 passengers boarded Tubize every day in 2014, compared to 3,412 in 2011 and 3,580 in 2007. The traffic at the station therefore seems to be fairly stable, even though the figures for 2013 are particularly low. At this stage, SNCB does not plan new trains between Tubize and Brussels in the short or medium term, but is working to increase the supply by increasing the number of seats available on existing trains. Tubize is currently served by four trains per hour to Brussels at the hyper-point. Finally, I signed the reply letter today. It is next week that you have asked for the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u139	Madam Minister, in conclusion you are announcing good news to me. That's it! For the rest, I understood that the SNCB would not satisfy at the request of the municipal authorities, for lack of budget for the station in the investment plan. That is regrettable, because it deserves our full attention. As far as parking is concerned, a problem may arise if the Brenta project is confirmed. That is why I invite you to meet with the municipal authorities and possibly the intercommunal authorities to try to find solutions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u140	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the working conditions of the train maintenance staff 300 metres from the Ottignies station. These men do ungrateful, difficult and dangerous work. Maintenance personnel are in a hurry because, on average, three people have to clean a car in 18 minutes. They have to cross the tracks on numerous occasions every day in order, among other things, to empty the garbage. A new maintenance post is planned and has just been completed a little over six months ago. Only one technical facility is still missing so that it is fully operational. According to some sources, this new maintenance post is expected to be inaugurated this year, or even at the beginning of next year. This new facility will greatly secure the already difficult work of these men. Minister, can you confirm the inauguration of this new facility in the coming months? Can you tell us the schedule? Finally, it appears that there has been a dispute between SNCB and Infrabel regarding the cost of secure crossings to cross the tracks. However, this is important for the safety of workers. Has a compromise been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u141	Mr Crusnière, it is expected that the facilities at the new Ottignies maintenance station will be operational in December 2016 and that it will start operating from that date. Track crossings are located on SNCB-owned land and are the responsibility of SNCB. Those on land belonging to Infrabel, which is the case at the Ottignies station, are managed by Infrabel, In accordance with the rules in force for the movement of personnel in railway installations, a road and a service crossing will be well placed by Infrabel to allow SNCB and Infrabel personnel to reach the new maintenance station facilities on foot from the station. I would add that if there was better coordination between the two companies, everything would have been done at the same time and staff could have benefited from modern facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u142	I share your analysis and look forward to the arrival in December of this new important tool for the safety of workers. Do you know the date of the meeting? You told me the mail was leaving and that it would be next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u143	It's Wednesday and Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u144	Do you do it twice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u145	Yes, for one line and the other line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u146	Perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u147	(...) It is a technical meeting with the mayors, the SNCB and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u148	Stations? But then this is not the meeting we were asking for. We wanted to discuss the RER lines with all of them, including the provincial advisors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u149	This will also be organised, but here we are trying to move quickly in relation to the completion of the work. It's a technical and operational meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u151	Minister, SNCB has been thinking for some time about its future tariff policy and, more specifically, how to differentiate fares from tickets according to the time of day. In this context, you have met with the inter-professional and regional social partners in order to continue the reflection. Following these discussions, the National Labour Council and the Central Economic Council issued a joint opinion on 26 January 2016 in order to warn SNCB of the possible adverse consequences of tariff differentiation. Indeed, the introduction of a system of tariff differentiation could threaten the historic "shippers" compromise for SNCB, which would exacerbate mobility problems. On the other hand, the train will become less attractive to many passengers and SNCB's tariff policy will become more complex, which will damage the image of SNCB. In addition, employers and workers will have to bear additional costs and the system of the paying third party will be affected. Finally, the introduction of tariff differentiation could create real administrative and practical complications for social secretariats and human resources services. Minister, what is your position on this? What do you think of the consequences of the Councils? What are your intentions? Do you maintain the idea of tariff differentiation? If so, can you clarify the following practical points? How will the price of a subscription be fixed for a worker who changes his use on a daily or weekly basis, for example for a worker who goes to work one day a week during peak hours, but makes the other days of the week the same journey outside peak hours? If a mixed subscription is in place, how will it be charged? What will be the impact of a differentiated tariff system depending on the period of the day on other SNCB products (Key Card, Rail Pass, Go Pass, etc.)( )?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u152	Ms. Poncelet, the managing director of SNCB gave a press conference on this subject. According to SNCB, the objective is not to increase the subscription price in rush hour, but to reserve advanced trains for commuters and to encourage other travellers to travel in off-peak hours with interesting offers. SNCB's tariff policy will also be discussed in the context of management contract negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u153	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's good for commuters. I hope that this will not become too expensive for other users at other times of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u154	Minister, rail users report incorrect delays posted on www.belgianrail.be. There would actually be a lag between the delay time displayed on the dock, very real, and the delay time displayed on this site. Since the time displayed on the site is less than the time displayed on the dock, this would prevent users from claiming the damage suffered, completing a certificate and thus being entitled to financial compensation. This delay could be explained by a difficulty in coordinating computer systems, especially when the train is diverted to another route and then managed by lnfrabel, the information to be encoded by SNCB. All this is in no way the fault of the user who is entitled to compensation in the event of delays. On April 17, the news site www.railtime.be disappeared. However, this information site managed by lnfrabel worked well. The user is entitled to a quality service. Let the information be of quality, that's the least of all! But SNCB is not always the source of the information. Railtime had the advantage of being housed at lnfrabel, where there are many problems of delay because it is lnfrabel who manages the infrastructure. However, it is known that delays are often linked to these infrastructure problems. lnfrabel was therefore at the root of the problems to feed directly and quickly the site Railtime which no longer exists. The malfunctions observed since then are not admissible, especially since it is the commuters who pay the price by losing their right to compensation. How do you explain this malfunction? What steps do you intend to take to resolve these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u155	In very specific circumstances, there may be a difference between the delay visible by the customer on the site and the application and the one displayed at the station. In this case, this is a very small minority of the delays. When Infrabel's central dispatch adapts the schedule in real time, for example following an incident on the network, the application serving the site and the mobile application takes the latter known schedule as the reference on the calculation of the delay. The screens present at the station show the difference between the scheduled schedule at the base and the new schedule created in real time by the dispatching. This is due to the technical specifications of the system that manages the site and the mobile application. This system has been purchased from an external supplier and is currently not reacting in the desired way. However, SNCB informed me that the compensations are always calculated on the basis of the delay shown at the station. SNCB has identified the cause of the problem. An analysis is under way so that measures can be taken at the level of IT applications. The aim of these changes is to broadcast a single reference schedule through all information channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u156	You mentioned a minority of delays. According to users, it's not that much of a minority. There are relatively many of them. I hope that the technical problem is a temporary one and that an acceptable solution will soon be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u157	Minister, the trade unions regularly question you about safety at Brussels-National airport. The safety and security inspectors working there are under the authority of the DGTA of the Mobility FPS. But in practice, their employer is the airport operator, LAC. Trade unions consider this situation to be a source of conflict of interest. I share that view. Minister, what is the status of your discussions with the unions on this situation? Do you confirm that "active tests", in which false passengers present themselves at the search to test the effectiveness of the security devices, have shown safety deficiencies at the airport? The detection of prohibited elements would be insufficient. The unions also denounce breaches in the fences around the airport that are not repaired for months. Are you aware of such cases? Is it correct that airport inspectors are informed in advance of EASA inspections, although these are supposed to take place unexpectedly? I have been asking the minister responsible for the airport for years, because I believe that there are real conflicts of interest between the company's profitability needs, which I do not deny, and the effectiveness of controls and safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u158	Ms.Lalieux, in September 2015, I organized a first meeting with the unions and LAC to review the status of the claims, history and situation on the ground. It was then decided to hold monthly meetings with my firm and my administration to try to identify possible solutions, not only to guarantee the status of airport inspectors, but also to guarantee all the best conditions for ensuring safety at the airport site. The facts you mention are the result of a union's La Tribune and most of them are not correct. I regret this publicity in the current context. I would also like to inform you that security procedures are regularly audited by DGTA. To return to your first question, during the last meeting with the unions on 7 January, we, with the support of my colleague from the Interior, outlined the possibility for airport inspectors to request a transfer to the federal police. This is currently being discussed at the technical level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u159	Madam Minister, thank you. This information comes from La Tribune, it's no secret. Perhaps there is an exaggeration, I don't know. But I can still tell you that it is not only in La Tribune that there are such reports. I have previously questioned your predecessors, including Mr. Wathelet. I am fully convinced that the employer cannot be a commercial when it comes to aviation safety. We have to separate the functions. The very basis of good security is to separate functions between commercial and legal functions. I hope that the proposals are acceptable to the workers, because I really believe that this conflict of interest must be stopped. The day there will be a tragedy, it will be far too late!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u160	Minister, in this question, introduced some time ago, I was asking you about the test that had been postponed for legitimate reasons, namely the threat and overload of work by law enforcement and firefighters. However, the exercise has since taken place. Minister, do you have a balance sheet of the fiscal year? When will the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel be opened?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u161	The exercise went well. Certification is ongoing. Commercial opening is scheduled for April 4. I think the official opening will take place a little before, in the presence of the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u162	Madam Chair, Minister, effective March 1, 2016, the Virton Station Window will have its opening hours reduced as a result of the non-replacement of a retirement. The partial closure of the ticket office and the reduction of staff at the station give cause for concern for the future of the station. The number of travellers, about 500 per day, including many young students, requires a high-quality public presence and service. I wonder about the future safety of travellers. During these closing periods, users will have to pass over the tracks, without the assistance of SNCB personnel, in order to take the train or, as they descend from it, on tracks other than those in front of the station. Infrabel will be present through a single agent to ensure the safety of passengers when crossing the tracks (no bridge or tunnel). But this Infrabel agent is not trained to perform the duties of a station deputy chief and is not given the authority to enforce the regulations. With regard to the Royal Decree of 9 July 2013, which sets out the requirements for security personnel, it is clear that security will no longer be adequately ensured. It should be noted that many freight trains use this line and continue to move at a speed of 60 km/h. In addition, the station is heavily used during school hours, where just two trains arrive at the same time. Passengers must then cross the tracks in front of or behind the train without visibility. It is a retirement which justifies, for SNCB, the closure of the station. It is therefore a purely financial argument that endangers travellers at Virton station. That's unacceptable! Minister, why is this retirement not being replaced? The closure of Virton's window was not planned. Should we expect further window closures? What measures will be taken to ensure full safety for users of Virton Station, as provided for in the Act? Do you intend to maintain the presence of a station undermaster in Virton?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u163	Mrs. Poncelet, I can confirm to you that the window at Virton Station is not closed, but its opening hours are reduced. The window will now be open from 6 a.m. to 1.15 p.m. SNCB does not currently intend to close the window until 2020, the date of a next evaluation. As for the waiting room, the SNCB informs me that it will remain open until the departure of the last train at 8:08 p.m. At Virton station, crossing the tracks is the responsibility of Infrabel, who has staff on site. This activity is independent of the reception and sale at Virton station, which is the responsibility of SNCB. Securail will take over Virton Station in its preventive patrols. If it turns out that the system put in place by Infrabel and SNCB is not respected by travellers and creates security problems after a period of awareness, further repression may be envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u164	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. When will Securail regain his hand on this matter? Is an agenda established?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u165	I don't have Securail's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u166	We will check to find out when this service will be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u167	Minister, I have already asked you several times about how travellers could purchase their ticket via the automatons once the ticket office at their station is closed. With the closing of the Virton station counter, we are again facing these issues. That's why I'm asking you today. Problems persist with the issuance of certain transport tickets. We've already talked about it several times. These problems were, in your opinion, being resolved in my last questions. In December, you told me that "the renewal of subscriptions on automatons has been somewhat delayed due to technical problems, but the problem is being resolved. The sale of international tickets via automation machines is not currently possible, but it is being planned at SNCB level." Minister, have the issues of ticket issuance and subscription renewal been resolved? If not, when will they be? Has the proposed international ticket sales evolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u168	Mrs Poncelet, I would like to remind you that the opening of the window at Virton Station, as I have just said, is reduced but the window is not closed. It remains open daily until 1:15 p.m. Since the end of 2015, it has been possible for customers in Luxembourg to obtain cross-border tickets and to validate their subscription on the automation system. With regard to the proposed sale of international tickets, there has been no significant development since the end of 2015. The technical, commercial and financial aspects are still being analysed. I cannot yet state at this stage when the implementation of this project will be effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u169	Minister, more and more trains are regularly being graffitied and therefore have to be cleaned. Can you tell me what the cost of cleaning and painting cars and locomotives is? What solutions could be developed to reduce these costs? Are any leads already under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u170	Ms.Poncelet, in 2015, approximately 105,924 graffiti were removed, representing a cleaning cost of 2,845,800 euros. When a repainting of the body is required, the repainting is usually carried out during the revision of the rolling stock without a relationship being established with the graffiti removed. Several actions are being implemented to stop the phenomenon of graffiti, namely preventive and repressive patrols by Securail and the police, automatic detection by intelligent cameras, protection of garage tracks of rolling stock by fences or anti-intrusion detection systems, exchange of international experience via the Graffitis working group within Colpofer (European collaboration of railway and security police services), mediation session with juvenile offenders and the earliest possible removal of graffiti, i.e. when the paint is still fresh, which also discourages the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u171	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is indeed a huge budget. That's surprising!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u172	Madam Minister, since 17 February, the CFLs (Luxembourg Iron Chemins) have informed travellers that due to a lack of equipment capable of running between Rodange and Athus, they are forced to limit the majority of the trains to Rodange and to remove them between Rodange and Athus, and vice versa. For an indefinite period, a bus shuttle connects Athus and Rodange, which is the first railway station in Luxembourg. In rush hours, these shuttles are late. As a result, the correspondence is missed. This also results in delays in return journeys between the home and the workplace. It therefore appears once again that the lack of approval of rolling stock in Luxembourg is at issue. You gave me a first answer, which I won't come back to. I hope that the bus shuttle solution is only temporary and is not linked to the lack of approval, because if the approval does not take place before 2018, the trains will be empty. My colleagues have been asking successive ministers about this for many years now, but nothing is going on. That's pretty disturbing. Minister, what's the status of the case? How do you explain the introduction of bus shuttles between Athus and Rodange? Is there a risk that these buses will make this connection until the approval is granted? You told me the 2018 deadline. What about the derogation you mentioned earlier? Are you aware of any brakes that would prevent this certification? Indeed, I believe that there would indeed be some on the Belgian side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u173	It should be noted that the Luxembourg-Rodange-Athus link is exclusively served by CFL equipment. The extract contained in your oral question, relating to SNCB material, does not concern this matter in any way. The introduction of bus shuttles between Athus and Rodange, replacing the currently unapproved CFL equipment, is temporary. CFLs hope to receive certification from the SSICF (Railway Safety and Interoperability Service) by mid-March. The train service has been adapted to maintain at Athus all the main connections during peak hours and also to provide them during off-peak hours to Virton and Arlon. No customer complaints have been received as a result of the adjustments made to date. As soon as the SSICF licence is effective, the train service will be reinstated by the CFLs on the second day following that day. This could even take place before March 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic354x.u174	Before March 16, 2016? All right. Thank you very much for this information.
