ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u2	Mr President, Minister, 709 hours, this is the cumulative time of bottling since the beginning of the year as announced this morning by the Touring Mobilis barometer. This is equivalent to 29 days, a month of queues in which hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens are stuck in their cars. Roads are engulfed and peaks of pollution are exceeded. This figure is also a record figure in Belgium, which propels us to the international level. In football, we could do better; in bottling, we are champions of Europe! This dramatic finding obviously has an impact on the quality of life: pollution, stress, burn out, ill-being. It also has important economic consequences, and I am sure that your attention is focused. The FEB calculated in 2014 that the cost of car congestion was EUR 8 billion per year. It's a real financial abyss. What alternative measures are you going to propose in practice to put an end to this system which has a cost to society of two billion euros per year? Secondly, SNCB is obviously a lasting solution to the fact that I have just made. But this is apparently not your government's view, since you are reducing the allocation of the SNCB by two billion euros by the end of the legislature. Do you intend to continue in this direction? Or do you plan to plead with your mobility colleague to invest more in rail? Finally, what other measures do you intend to propose to put an end to this scourge in economic terms and in terms of public health? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u3	Mr. Vanden Burre, your analysis is correct. The data from Touring Mobilis and the VRT traffic news editors are clear: traffic jams do have an impact on the Belgian economy. A number of studies have recently been published for this purpose. I am referring, among other things, to the White Paper for Rediscovered Mobility of the Brussels Chamber of Commerce and to the study of the Transport and Mobility research team Leuven in 2015. As Minister of Economy, I can only confirm it, with regret. The question is how to solve this problem. Colleagues, some of these answers are not within my competence. I refer in particular to the need for public works and also to mobility. There is a lot of public work, especially in the Brussels ring, which is a very important concern. Another element is mobility, with public transport, for which my colleague Minister Bellot is competent. And I know he works hard to find a solution. You also asked for further measures. You stressed the importance of company cars. Here I hope that a solution can be found in the debate on the mobility budget. This is a debate that concerns not only the Minister of Economy but also the Ministers of Social Affairs, Finance and Mobility. You're right, we need to find a solution as quickly as possible on a mobility budget. Mr President, there are other measures such as telework, floating schedules and many others to solve this problem. Like you, I'm convinced. I hope that we will find the right answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. The particular subject of company cars is of great concern to us. I had found you more courageous and a little more innovative in interviews you gave recently. I have resumed an interview in February 2016 where you talk about the mobility budget, exemptions, short-term initiatives relayed by your Finance Minister, Mr. Van Overtveldt, who, somewhat to the general surprise, had spoken in May to put the company cars back on the table. So far, we can't see anything. As you said, and I confirm, in an alternative plan to corporate cars, environmentalists will be partners. In this context, really, we insist and encourage you even more to come with an alternative plan because this public funding of the traffic jams that you advocate and defend within the government is no longer viable, either in terms of public health or in terms of economic impact for our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u5	Mr President, the suffering of the Major Act is still evidently not over. You know that Europe wants to modernise our port work. It says in our coalition agreement that we want to do the same. Through the social dialogue, you have worked out an adjustment that has been kept away from Parliament in order not to harm social dialogue. That is a procedure that we can understand. I will not say that we were very enthusiastic when we received those texts. I told you that, because it is only a way to solve the many problems. Actually, not that much changes. The trade unions continue to decide who may or may not work at the port. The unions continue to decide company by company what port labour is and what is not. For logistics and e-commerce, where there is the greatest growth potential for employment, nothing changes. Companies are allowed to recruit outside the pool, but they still have to pay an increase in their wage mass of 2.5 % and wage costs are going up, rather than down what is the government's objective. Your argument was: we must first stop the infringement procedure and then we can proceed. We have also loyally supported you in this. I said that a few weeks ago. Today I read that this has still not worked. We have always understood from your previous answers that if you took the texts to Mrs Boels in mid-July, everything would be fine. It turns out that they still need to be analysed again and this is being postponed to September. Minister, is that European code language? Does that mean it's not okay yet, that it's not good enough, that we still don't have a solution? What does Mrs Bulc really want to say about this communication? We must still understand that there are a lot of jobs at risk in our port if we do not solve this problem, especially if I have to believe today's newspapers that there might be another European procedure. I just read a fantastic press release on the docks. I welcome that, but the really labour-intensive sectors, such as the piecemeal sector, continue to deteriorate. That is why I would like to ask you exactly what Mrs Bulc's objection to the texts before us is. You've discussed them thoroughly with her in advance. If they are carried out, the problem is gone. Is it true that the procedure is being extended? What's the further plan of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u6	Mr Klaps, the amendment of the Major Act is indeed a suffering. However, we must take steps forward every time. We have already made a great deal of progress. Yesterday, a royal decree was published. Seven collective agreements have been concluded. A referendum has been organised. The social dialogue has worked brilliantly in this regard. On 6 July we delivered all the texts to the Commissioner. There was a meeting with the commissioner yesterday. We thanked her for giving us the opportunity to discuss the matter with the social partners and to reach agreement on it. That agreement has been achieved with great care and consultation. We now assume, in the final stage, that the European Commission will cease the procedure of default. That is the last obstacle we must take. You have asked for this a few times, which is of course your right. I replied that we see this as the first important step and that the logistical discussions will follow afterwards. A number of companies and individuals, such as yourself, are very active on this issue and keep it in the media. However, you should not always believe the media, because the Commissioner did not communicate on this yesterday. It is very strange that there are things in a particular newspaper today about which I wonder how the hell they got there, which is probably why your question is to get a direct explanation from me. The Commissioner replied positively that the action plan we presented in December was implemented. My services received the texts on 6 July and will now look at them. Mr Klaps, this is the agony to which I must submit. There are six steps in the procedure to stop a letter of formal notice. Firstly, DG MOVE analyses the texts legally. Secondly, together with the Commission's legal service, DG MOVE draws up a preliminary letter indicating its intention to terminate the procedure and to present arguments for it. Thirdly, the premature letter is delivered to the defendants. Fourthly, DG MOVE and the Legal Service are preparing the dossier, which the Commission may issue. Fifthly, the dossier will be held at the Commission's monthly meeting on the procedure. Sixthly, the Commission has stopped the procedure. That is the procedure at European level, to which I must submit even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u7	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u8	Mr President, if I am asked a question, please give me time to answer it, otherwise there will be a different way of communicating about it in the media. It is important for the Commission to follow these six stages. I have to pay attention to this every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a agony. I just hope it won't be Echtnacht's procession. We were clearly told that this would be decided on 15 July. Now I'm reading September. Of course, I have to ask questions to know whether it will be September, whether there will be a procedure in December or next year. Meanwhile, the port continues to decline in the ranking of the treatment of items and we miss a lot of investments. Furthermore, goods are now being unloaded in bulk, carried away with trucks far from the port wall to be treated there and then returned with trucks to the ports to be shipped further. This is bad for congestion and for the environment. We've already talked about that. We've got to figure that out anyway. In the meantime, the EFTA Court has declared that there is even a violation of human rights in the procedures in force. Mr Minister, the playing time is really over by now. You have a chance to prove that you've been the best minister of labor in the last 30 years. I would therefore ask you to start immediately. No more absurd geographical delineation for port labour, and my fellow Members obviously do not like that at all. Involvement for the trade unions, but not a right of veto, because we will not wait for a European conviction to attract investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this morning the press reported on a report on the reform of criminal investigation. This report advocates several measures that call into question a fundamental institution of our judicial organization, namely the abolition of the function of investigating judge. It is difficult to decide on a report that we have not read, but this tendency to strengthen the prosecutor's office, which is intimately linked to the executive branch, and thus to weaken the sitting judiciary raises questions and has far-reaching consequences. The role of investigating judge is an institution that works and in which citizens have full confidence, which is not negligible in these times of distrust of the institutions. As a symbol of independence, I judge the investigation not to be accountable to anyone, and especially not to political authority. In addition, removing it means ignoring its responsibilities and the dynamics of the criminal trial, since the investigating judge is required, prior to the trial, to make the most important decisions in terms of restriction of liberty or infringement of privacy. The balance of interest between individual rights and public action therefore requires a de facto independence, even beyond the statutory requirement, of the outcome of the hearing which is not known to the public prosecutor. It is the central position of the investigating judge in the investigation that guarantees that it is carried out on the charge and on the defence, a responsibility which cannot be assured by a judge responsible for monitoring by far the progress of the case. I note from the extracts of this report that any reform makes sense only if it is accompanied by a strengthening of human and material resources. Minister, will this report be made public? What's in it? Do you intend to follow his recommendations as a whole? Do you not consider that the position of the prosecutor in the trial makes a prosecution and defence investigation more complex? Finally, how can we prevent a powerful prosecutor from leading to a two-speed justice system, a justice system that depends on the means available to the defendant to control the investigation that is necessarily the responsibility of the prosecutor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I hope you are not disappointed with the publication of this report in the press. We have been aware of this in this way and it must be noted that the flagship measure announced by these experts is one of those which we have already discussed in the Committee on Justice. This is the fate of the investigating judge. In the opinion of the experts, we are moving towards what we are so fond of: the abolition of this function of investigating judge. We started with mini-training. It is obvious that the danger is waiting for us. The democratic guarantee provided by the investigating judge, his independence and his autonomy, particularly with regard to the prosecutor's office, appear to be in default today. It is said that his situation is akin to a lack of neutrality in this autonomy and independence. There is a lack of such autonomy and, in order to replace it, there is nothing better than suggesting that the prosecutor's office, tomorrow, be the only and sole person responsible for the criminal investigation from its beginning to its end, until he proposes the fate that will be done at the investigation. Mr Minister, you will certainly tell us too easily that it is never just the opinion of the experts and that we will see what we will do with it in committee as we debate it. Apart from that, there are some surprising things in this report, including the quotas for pre-trial detention. It's totally surreal, it seems to me. But there is also the end of the secrecy of the investigation, the disappearance of the rules of procedure, the end of the complaints with the constitution of a civil party, the permanent disappearance of the court of assizes. You've always wanted to leave it and deny it, but it obviously appears here. There may be some interesting things, minister, but you have taught us more transparency or, in any case, more about the Justice Committee. In reserving the first part of these reports, we had the pleasure of discussing with those responsible for civil procedure reform. Here, we're cut off a little bit of grass under our feet. Minister, is this deliberate or is it your defending body? My questions are as follows, Mr. Chairman. Why, once again, are the experts in favour of increasing the power of the prosecution and the police in the files? Have they received specific instructions, particularly from your firm, to prepare their report? What was the influence of the University of Ghent, from which one of the experts came? Finally, how soon will you present the conclusions of this work to the Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u12	Mr Minister, my colleagues have mentioned this, the press has mentioned the publication of a report by four experts, university professors and magistrates, which modernises the Code of Criminal Procedure. They propose, in particular, the abolition of the function of investigating judge as we know it at present. They are based on the fact that the investigating judge is not only an investigator, but also an instructor. For them, that would not be such as to ensure its neutrality. Their idea is to set up a single investigation procedure, which would now be conducted only by the public prosecutor's office. This would therefore be the end of the dichotomy between, on the one hand, information and, on the other, education. All investigations will therefore be conducted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is for the time being responsible for implementing the criminal policy of the Minister of Justice – that is, yours, Minister – while the investigating judge offers an image of independence, carrying out his prosecution and defence investigation. However, the report states that the Prosecutor's Office should also develop its information in this way. He advocated a new role for the judge, who would become an investigating judge responsible for monitoring the prosecutor's investigation and monitoring its speed, completeness and balance. To this end, pre-trial detention would remain a prerogative of the investigating judge. Minister, what do you think of the leads presented in this report, specifically with regard to the reform of the function of investigating judge? If the lead in this report concerning the investigating judge were to be followed, for my group, it is essential that the investigation continue to be carried out on the prosecution and on the defence. For us liberals, impartiality is an essential value to be maintained in a rule of law, but also in a democratic society like ours. Minister, can you confirm that you will take care of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u13	Mr Minister, we have seen some of the elements of an analysis of a report by the experts of the Criminal Procedure Reform Commission, which we have not received. One of the points raised in this report is the abolition of the role of investigating judge. I would remind you that we have had debates, whether in the committee on terrorism or in the committee discussions on the potpourri II law, where I asked you about the matter, Mr.Justice – Mr.Minister, rather, we are not yet at this stage, but we are getting there. I have the impression, minister, that your goal is still to abolish the function of investigating judge. You told me: "Oh no, not at all, that's really not my intention at all! What are you going to look for there?" However, in potpourri II, your goal was already, through mini-investigation, to remove an important competence from the investigating judge, home search, and to reduce it to someone who will affix the stamp at the request of the public prosecutor. That's kind of the purpose of your potpourri II reform. What amazes me a little in this report, Minister, is that you yourself are moving forward in your overall policy of justice that we need efficiency and that, in the name of efficiency, we need to reform our justice. However, the same report calls for a strengthening of the prosecutor's office to compensate for everything that is going to be taken away from the investigating judge. I ask the question, minister: why would the prosecution service, which will need to be strengthened, necessarily be more neutral and impartial than the investigating judge? It seems to me that no such argument has been put forward in the public debate. I would like to take up the words of the League of Human Rights on the potpourri II reform, which was already reducing the powers... Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you will be interested in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u14	Continueez, Monsieur Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u15	Mr President, I would like to be sure that all my colleagues on the right hear what the League of Human Rights has to say, even if sometimes it bothers them a little. She already said, concerning the Pot-Pourri II reform: "The League of Human Rights rejects the procedural pragmatism of dispensing the investigating judge put forward in the explanatory memorandum of the preliminary draft law and has rejected the extension of the mini-investigation, which could once again diminish the prerogatives of the investigating judge for the benefit of the prosecutor, who does not offer the same guarantees in terms of independence and impartiality." My question is very clear, Your Honor... I'm sorry, Minister. Does this report help you? Will you, for this reason, order it, because you intend to continue your work with a view to restricting the powers of the investigating judge or finally, do you register falsely against this report by reassuring us of your intention not to restrict the powers of the investigating judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prosecutor, you know that at the request of my predecessor, the University of Ghent, under the previous legislature, had carried out a study on the stumbling blocks in the current Belgian criminal procedure. The government agreement provides that, as a follow-up to this study, the Government will prepare a draft new Code of Criminal Procedure on the basis of the guidelines adopted by the Government. Mr. Brotcorne, you asked me if I was disappointed with the publicity for this bill. My answer is yes. Indeed, when I can, I always give the first place to Parliament, as was the case, for example, with the Justice Plan. I would have liked the same to apply to the preliminary draft of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. However, a preliminary discussion was needed as to the direction to be given to the procedure. By ministerial decree of 30 October 2015, we appointed four experts (two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking) to prepare these guidelines, which they did. We are now at the stage of the initial deliberations in intercabinet groups on the guidelines they have set out on various points. However, the journalist who received the preliminary draft guidance focused on the role of the investigating judge. This is a question of opinions that have been given. I didn't educate the experts because he's not my type. So I have never done this way, except for the law that I know a little bit about, namely company law. For the rest, the experts have more knowledge than I do. As far as the investigating judge is concerned, according to their opinion, the latter does not disappear. He will always be the one who authorizes all specific investigative measures, such as search, telephone listening, etc. For the time being, they give preference to the investigation unit, which has advantages in terms of the unequal treatment that exists between the cases that give rise to an investigation under the direction of the investigating judge and those for which this is not the case. The experts made their choice. If this is also the government's choice, you will soon know, but the discussions have only just begun. Don't ask my opinion for the moment. My opinion will be that of the government. It's obvious. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u17	I'm a college man, first of all! Mr Hedebouw, as far as mini-education is concerned, you have read it out. The right has not listened to you well. But I listened to you! The mini-investigation does not at all deprive the investigating judge of the power to seize the investigation if he wishes. You know that. The experts are proposing something else. Indeed, Mr. Calomne, he would be an investigating judge. You can be sure, and that is my personal opinion: the judge, in this case the minister, will ensure the impartiality of the investigation at any time, at the expense of the prosecution and at the expense of the defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u18	Mr. Minister, your answer is, of course, incomplete, since it is not clear whether you are going to follow these expert opinions and recommendations, or whether the government decides. You take note and then the government follows, that's... whatever. We see that things are watermarking, and in the continuity of the reforms that have been carried out so far, particularly in the context of potpourri II, with the enlargement of mini-education. The prosecutor's office will have more power. We no longer have too many illusions about your intentions. The essential and urgent issue remains. It was also referred to in this report or in the press. It's about the resources allocated to the justice system. We never talk about more means and budget, but always less, less, less... less guarantee and less independence for the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u19	Minister, I hear your disappointment that the report has been deflowered. Now that it is, it seems to me that a democratic requirement requires that all members of the Justice Committee, at least, be given a copy of this report. We did not have the opportunity to discuss this with the authors. We may have the opportunity, during the upcoming holidays, to read it and thus prepare for the forthcoming debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u21	As soon as possible! Mr Minister, since the information is already in the press, it should not be very complicated to send it to us via the chairman of the committee. I see, however, that he's gone. Good practices of democratic and political transparency would like you to send us this report. As far as the surplus is concerned, I understand that you will not take a position today. I didn't think you'd say otherwise! Although, in your documents, the disappearance of the investigating judge, as we know him, is programmed. I'm getting to know you. The assize court has not completely disappeared, but we can see what it has become. In the long run, his death is programmed. The investigating judge will not have completely disappeared, but his death is scheduled. The cdH group, will not follow you in this field as it is true that the figure of the investigating judge, in the early 1800s, was created to serve as a screen between the powers, to be a counter-power and to allow any person who is entitled to an investigation of his case in the prosecution and in the defence, which the prosecution will never do in any way guarantee that we may be given in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u22	Minister, thank you for your different answers. I have already said this, but I would like to stress that the impartiality of the investigation and, more broadly, of justice are absolutely essential in a rule of law and a democratic society like ours. It should therefore be retained. We'll have to think carefully and see if the investigating judge is removed. My group will remain attentive to the follow-up and development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u23	Minister, you said that there are advantages and disadvantages to the various avenues. However, you have only cited the advantages! I feel your enthusiasm at the appearance of this report. The experts have visibly been in the sense that you wanted. Indeed, like my colleagues, I am concerned about your intentions with this reform of the justice system, which gives the prosecutor's office an increasingly important place. You know the public prosecutor's office won't do any charge-and-charge searches. It is already a force today that thanks to the mini-investigation, the investigating judge can still intervene but you know that it is after that that he will run after the events. Today, for having been personally tapped and experienced as a traumatic experience, having been put under pressure by the investigating judges, the pressure will increase even more because there will be an increasing risk of a fake independence of powers in our country. It is necessary to give power to the investigating judge in the fight against terrorism. For fair justice, power must be given to the investigating judge and not taken away from him. And I believe, minister, that in the name of budgetary efficiency, you are strengthening a class justice system in which criminal transactions will be proposed by the prosecution, transactions according to the purchasing power of the people present; this is already seen in financial transactions with regard to white-collar crime. Therefore, minister, take a clear position: the investigating judge must be rescued!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u24	Mr President, Minister, a number of articles on the screening of Flemish hospitals by the Flemish Health Inspectorate have been published in the media today. In itself, there is a very good tendency for audits to be carried out on the quality of hospitals and for recommendations to be made to improve quality without taking and shaming. There are two major bottlenecks. The first is the information to the patient and the second is the understaffing or even the non-staffing of emergency services. Such a review makes recommendations to individual hospitals, but structural bottlenecks are often also seen returning. Zorgnet Vlaanderen now explicitly says about the understaffing of the emergency services that many hospitals want, but the personnel costs with the current funding are no longer able to cope. There are quite a few challenges for the future regarding hospitals. Think of the excess of beds and the uneven quality of surgical procedures and treatments. There are also more and more hospitals closing the year in red. I know, Madam Minister, that at the start of this legislature you announced that you would propose a plan for the new hospital funding. There are signs that this is becoming very urgent. We are in half the legislature. When do you intend to lay your egg in this file? After all, we are getting signals that it will be very difficult for hospitals to offer all disciplines at a quality level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u25	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, there is little I can say about the findings of the Flemish Health Inspectorate, which is one of the Flemish powers. I have not yet been informed of this report, either formally or informally. However, I hope to receive it in the next few days. Since 2002, it has been mandatory to give enough information to the patient. That is what the law on patients' rights says, and we will have to freshen up that information. With regard to the understaffing of the emergency services, it is up to the hospitals to organise the permanence, which I have little impact on. I do not have the authority to deal with the shortage of emergency doctors either, because the subquotas are also within the competence of the Communities. As far as the plan to revise the financing is concerned, you ask me when I'm going to lay my eggs. I don't know where you were on April 28th, 2015, so last year when I proposed that approach in committee. The chairman of the committee is not here now, but we have already agreed to give a state of play in September, when the committee resumes its work. There was even a time table. As a result of another question, you said that I would never be able to do so because you had accompanied a number of mergers in Antwerp which lasted 7 to 12 years before they were completed. Anyway, the egg is laid. The plan is already in progress and at the next committee meeting I will give an update on hospital funding. I can't tell you more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u26	Madam Secretary, with all due respect, you have a plan of action. Now, a plan of action must lead to results. I'm just asking for that result. As far as the rest of your reply is concerned, I have the impression that you do not have all these powers. You are Minister of Health and everything that goes wrong must be taken up by other levels. I don't understand. We are a federal state and there are states. Flanders does good research and audits of hospitals. I think you should work with your fellow Members to bring positive elements to that. The hospital funding is incredibly important. Follow the money is very important to guarantee quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u27	Minister, my voice will not go far, because I have a severe cold, but I would like to begin my question with a heartfelt congratulations. We are not yet halfway through the legislature, and yet you, as Minister for Pensions, can already present a very nice piece of work. The adjustment of the statutory retirement age is one of your achievements. The conditions for early retirement are tightened. The phase-out of the diploma award for officials has begun. There is a new law on the guarantee of return for the second pillar and minimum pensions have been increased, signed, sealed and delivered. The pension reforms of this and the previous government have reduced the ageing bill by 1.9 % of GDP and the risk of poverty among senior citizens has decreased by a third over the last 10 years. I wouldn't have to ask a question here today if the work were finished, but it isn't. The Study Committee on Ageing predicts an increase in the pension bill in the coming years. So there is still work to be done and therefore it is not encouraging to see today that the discussions on the heavy tasks are only making very difficult progress. Our group believes that we should talk effectively about heavy tasks and not about heavy professions. On the one hand, we must define a minimum number of heavy tasks and, on the other hand, we must ensure uniform rules for civil servants, employees and the self-employed. Do you agree that civil servants, employees and self-employed persons should be subject to the same criteria for determining the heavy tasks? If so, is that your position in the discussions with the social partners in the National Pensions Committee? We also noted that the National Pension Committee did not meet on 19 July. The meeting will be postponed until 20 August. Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u28	Mr Minister, my reading is obviously very different from that of my colleague. We have fought and are still denouncing the measures taken on the backs of workers and pensioners: the abolition of the pension bonus, the graduation bonus, the tightening of the early pension and the survival pension and, above all, the reduction of the legal age of the pension to 67 years. You announced that this last brutal and unfair decision would be compensated by the establishment of a list of difficult trades. You wanted to reach an agreement on the penitibility by July 19th. It seems that the decision between the social partners is still under way, that the partners have not reached an agreement and that the meeting next Tuesday is overturned. Therefore, what is the new timetable for implementation? If the social partners fail to reach an agreement – which one can fear – what will your attitude be? How long are you going to allow for social consultation? If there is a unanimous opinion – as I still hope – do you commit to fully respecting it? What are your main orientations in determining difficult occupations and their consequences for career or pension duration? Are you for a collective approach based on objective criteria or for an individual approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Somers, I would like to thank you for your positive appreciation of the pension reform. In the course of this legislature, this government has indeed undertaken the necessary reforms to ensure the financial and social sustainability of our pension system. The ongoing discussions within the National Pension Committee relate to the criteria for heavy work rather than to the definition of heavy professions. Let me not go into the question today as to whether the same criteria for heavy work should be applied to civil servants, workers and self-employed persons, so as not to jeopardise the negotiations currently under way. To answer Mr. Daerden's question, we first sought to objectiveize the debate and proposed a working method for the National Pension Committee. The Public Sector Commission has worked on categories of criteria of penitibility not on trades. The committee is continuing its discussions with the aim of reaching an agreement on the first stage before the end of August. It's the timing. Indeed, the committee meeting scheduled for 19 July has been postponed for agenda issues, but negotiations are continuing in a constructive atmosphere. Then, the government will make very clear decisions on the budget envelope to be spent on it. That is obviously necessary. I would also like to point out that, in the civil service system, for civil servants, the budget relating to the tantèmes will be recycled in the budget relating to penitibility. Of course, if agreements are reached, we will respect the social agreements to which we will be a party, since, I would remind you, the CNP, the National Pensions Committee, is a tripartite organization: trade unions, employers and government. As for the individual or collective approach, I think it is really part of the ongoing negotiations. As I said to Mrs Somers, I would prefer today to keep a certain degree of caution with regard to this and to allow the social partners to agree on a report which they undertook to report to us before the end of August.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I fully understand its incompleteness, given the many discussions that have yet to take place. For example, the phasing out of the certificate for civil servants was a crucial fact for us, albeit with fair transitional measures, because it is impossible for us that pension systems are so different. As part of the definition of the heavy tasks, we are also in favour of increasing the pension systems of civil servants, self-employed persons and employees, without providing bonuses for one group at the expense of another group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand your caution. In fact, negotiations must be given every opportunity to find a balanced solution that meets the needs of the social partners, and particularly the workers. There is an urgent need to find an answer and to take into account the reality of workers. It is noted that the increase in the disease is proportional to the increase in the workload. We have to take that into account. It cannot be accepted that workers are pushed beyond their physical abilities. It seems to me important to favour a collective approach on the basis of objective criteria in the determination of difficult jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u32	Minister, public investment in Belgium amounted to some EUR 10 billion in 2015. That's 2.5 percent of GDP. Since 1970 public investment has decreased by more than half. They are currently at a historically low level. Although this trend is visible in all European countries, Belgium is dangling at the tail of the European peloton. I therefore believe that there is an urgent need for additional support and a policy that effectively encourages such investments. In recent years and months we have heard a lot about underinvestment in our country. Think of our rail infrastructure, our road infrastructure, research and development, the federal museums in Brussels. We hear from various quarters the call for additional investment which can also contribute to additional growth. The federal government, like the European Commission and other governments, envisages a growth agenda. The investment is also important for additional growth. It is correct that the federal government has only one tenth of the total powers in the area of investment. Communities and regions have more than half of the investment powers, and local authorities invest for one third in this country. For the investment agenda, it is important that all these governments pull the same cart and work together to increase investment. Otherwise they won't be possible. Our group was pleased to hear at the beginning of this week that you have called for a relaxation of budgetary policy with your fellow MEPs. I see you shaking your head. Surely you are calling for a relaxation of European budgetary policy, do I understand? You will give me an answer to that in a moment. I suspect that this does not mean that you want to abandon the budget path we have agreed on. I hope not. I suspect that this means that there can be investments that can be spread over several financial years. The climate today is perfect for making additional investments possible because there is now so low interest rates. European monetary policy also focuses on additional investment. So here's what I want to ask you. Firstly, how do you see this more flexible European fiscal policy? What do you have in mind? Secondly, will you effectively work on a global investment agenda with all governments together?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, you have already outlined a large part of the framework in which this whole discussion takes place. I would like to take a little more account of your figures on the evolution of public investment. Net public investment, gross investment adjusted for depreciation of capital stock, has been essentially zero for 30 years. One year a little plus, the other year a little minus. We are certainly not the only country in this respect, but we are certainly one of the frontrunners in the negative. We are in danger of going into a vicious circle where a lack of good and modern infrastructure undermines our competitiveness, undermines growth, undermines job creation and ultimately also weighs heavily on public finances. We can break this vicious circle by adapting the rigid European accounting framework. This has nothing to do with the budgetary rules and the agreed budget deficit. The structural budget deficit must definitely go to zero. That's the deal, and it's gonna stay that way. Those who argue that I have taken a turn in this matter take their dreams for reality. The budgetary constraints are not going to go away at all! When I talk about those accounting rules, it's essentially about two things. That's what you've already indicated. It is absolutely illogical that a large infrastructure investment, which offers economic and social benefits for years, should be included in an accounting year. That is an anomaly and we really need to do something about it. A second anomaly is the Eurostat rules on alternative financing mechanisms, public-private partnerships and so on. Those rules are not clear. They are even contradictory in some respects. We must also do something about this. During a presentation, which I was asked by the President of the Eurogroup, these were the two basic points I made there. I have noticed that this has been well received by my fellow Members, and I would like to say a few words. It is also the case that the President of the Eurogroup has expressly said that these points absolutely must remain on the agenda and be clarified further. This was also endorsed by Slovakia, which holds the Presidency of the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u34	Mr President, Minister, we welcome the prospect of a more flexible fiscal policy for the registration of investments. I agree with you that we should not deviate from the proposed budget path, because that would also be wrong. However, we must create an opening to make investments more effective by spreading them over several years. I hope with you that in the coming years we will be able to build the first spade for the Oosterweel and other infrastructure projects, and that we will also be able to step up our efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u35	Mr.President, Minister, last week we were many to ask you about the uncertainties that affect your tax revenue projections and the mortgage that these uncertainties place on the federal government's 2016 budget figures. You told us that we had to wait for the numbers of the Monitoring Committee. These are now being postponed to a later date, to allow the government to ensure a small end-of-session communication that protects it from the bad figures to be expected. That's not reassuring. This week, I would like to convey another concern to you. This is the concern of the local authorities because, in most municipalities, the accounts for the 2015 financial year are being approved and, everywhere, there is again a large gap, a loss of profits between the forecasts, as communicated by your department, the FPS Finances, and the actual revenue figures, as now recorded in the caisses of the communes. There is a cash flow problem as well as a budgetary problem, since the bad accounts of the previous year obviously make the budgetary difficulties of the current year. I repeat this concern not as a member of the opposition but, if I may say so, on behalf of all the municipalities concerned. I heard, not so long ago, the mayor MR de Montigny-le-Tilleul explain how it was difficult for her to manage her communal budget in the light of these uncertainties related to the totally unpredictable nature of the revenues from the FPS Finances. This is a recurring problem, but it is clearly getting worse. You have already been questioned on several occasions on this subject. Last year, you explained to us in particular that the delays in recruitment were linked to the sixth reform of the State, but above all, you announced that you were finally preparing for the establishment of a structural system of automatic advances. You were even committed to putting it in place for the 2016 fiscal year. It's July 2016. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to hear from you on this point. I think you met with the cities and municipalities in February this year. They sent you a new letter in April to insist on the introduction of this system of automatic advances. Where are we? Do you have any figures on the difference between forecasts and reality? What is the status of this automatic system of advances that you have already announced for a long time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u36	Mr Dispa, first of all, I understand and share your concern about municipal taxation. In recent years, there have been large variations in both the rate of recruitment and the different incomes recruited during the period from July to October of a given year. The amounts enrolled during the above-mentioned period determine, since the 2007 tax year, whether or not our initial estimates in this regard are correct. It goes without saying that variations in the pace of the recruitment process are unpredictable one year before, that is, when the FPS Finance prepares the initial forecasts. This is why re-estimates are prepared and sent to the municipalities at the end of October. For fiscal year 2015, the adjustment of the calculation programmes following the measures taken under the Sixth State Reform explains the delay in the enrolment of the 2015 tax year. To solve the problems of recruitment rhythm, I have already announced, and you have mentioned, that we are trying to find a structural solution – which, Mr.Dispa, is not at all obvious. We are working on it, of course, but it is not simple. The aim, however, remains to find this solution in order to stabilize the process of recruitment and, consequently, to allocate to the municipalities annual amounts corresponding to their respective fiscal capacities. Aware of the cash flow problems that may arise from this problem, we have made advances to the communes concerned since 2013. I intend to do the same this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u37	Minister, thank you. I do not want to be derogatory, but I must admit that your answer is totally disappointing. I have an answer before me that you made in November 2015. It's word for word the same answer you're giving us today! I can pass it on to you: these are the same formulations, it's a copy-paste! These repetitive responses are tiresome, disturbing and dilatory. If the solution is not easy to find, I will allow myself to help you. I tabled, more than a year ago, on behalf of the cdH group, a bill to introduce this system of advances. I can give it to you. I suggest that you use it to ensure that this structural solution can be put in place without delay. I have to tell you, Minister, your management of the department for the communes is a double penalty. The first is the impact of the tax shift that you voted for. It will certainly result in a 10% reduction in the additions to the PPI for the municipalities. And from now on, the first penalty will be the instability in which you plunge them, and your confirmed inability to solve this structural problem. I confess that your answer is really very disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement stated that for the first time we should develop an energy vision which should ultimately lead to an inter-federal energy pact. As we all know, the regions are working on this through resolutions and a resolution has already been adopted in the Chamber in order to arrive at a joint pact. In this respect, we are particularly interested in the state of play. An inter-federal inter-kabinette working group in April decided to land at the end of this year. In the Committee on Business, we were informed by a letter from your cabinet that the regions were informally consulted. However, there are also nuances. The issue of climate and energy was not put on the agenda of the Consultation Committee at the end of June 2016. We must also note that the press has read that there is a storm between federal and regional governments. However, the regional ministers would be waiting to talk further. For example, as we all know, there is an urgent need to take decisions on the issue of CO2 emissions. Meanwhile, the new climate summit in Marrakech is coming, while we still have to ensure the European translation of the Paris climate summit. Madam Secretary, without helping you on holiday, I ask you the following questions. How are contacts with the regions affected at the moment? When will the Consultative Committee meet? The most important question, do you have the timing by the end of the year for the Energy Pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u39	Beste coluga, you asked two questions that must not be mixed. First of all, you talked about the pact and the inter-federal energy vision. I have already had the opportunity to reply last week in plenary session and in committee, since I have sent the Committee on the Economy a state of affairs concerning this work, saying that for the moment the different levels of power, at the request of the Regions, want to develop their personal vision and the concrete actions they see linked to this vision. This in order to find ourselves, at the end of the year, to build together, by aggregating these visions and the possible actions connected with them, a pact, an agreement between the different levels of power for the energy transition to the 2025, at least, and still thereafter. It is indeed a question of replacing the nuclear power generation capacity, which will be totally removed from our energy mix from 2025. Of course, this is linked to the fight against global warming and to the European objectives we have in this area: first international objectives - the Paris Agreement, to which you referred - and ambitious objectives at European level. In this context, the climate package 2014-2020 leads to the division of efforts between the Regions and the Federal State. It is the legal translation, in a text of a cooperation agreement, of the political agreement on the distribution of these efforts concluded between us before the Paris Conference that is being finalized. We have a meeting with the regional ministers in my office this Friday to resolve two more issues. One relates to the possible fines in the event of liability, which weigh on the federal state, and how to organize this between us. And the other concerns solidarity between the different levels of power to achieve the objectives. How can statistics be redeemed between different levels of power in order to achieve this? We hope to have completed this text and presented it to the Consultation Committee in September, in order to release the funds that are on an account of the National Bank, managed by the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG), which correspond to the auctioning of ETS products (emissions trading system) at each level of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clarifications. Of course, we will continue to monitor this matter closely. Last year I also put an oral question on the subject and I said: 'Paris vaut bien une messe'. Now we have to be clear: Paris vaut bien une messe, Marrakech aussi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u41	Mr President, Minister, as part of the NATO strategy, our country is also expected to participate in a number of efforts to deter Russia. There will be four NATO battalions in Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and Poland. We're going to Lithuania for some time. I have reservations about this deterrent strategy towards Russia. The question is whether this should be the priority of NATO's priorities, and certainly of our country. I do not have the impression that Russia is a threat to anyone at the moment. At present, there are other priorities and threats that are not all of a different order, but are also much larger. Yet one perseveres in anger. The way in which Russia and Putin are dishonored by NATO by deploying troops on Russia's borders slowly but surely begins to appear on Russophobia. Instead of working with Russia and with Putin to combat the common danger of Islamic radicalism and terrorism, we are clinching on European territory with the Russians and with Putin. That does not seem to me to be a good idea from a European point of view, quite the contrary. Why do we, as a small country, always have to walk on the hand of America and therefore of NATO and engage in a strategy that, in my humble opinion, does not make Europe any better, on the contrary? This is gonna cost a lot of money. This is mainly political, because in the military field it is not a very big deal to send 200 Belgian soldiers to Lithuania, on the border with Russia. I don't think the Russian bear will be very impressed by that. It's mostly a political story. Mr. Secretary, why are you doing this? Why do we not deal with all this in a critical way and do we not stay away from these NATO manoeuvres?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u42	Mr. Dewinter, you're going on coffee at Assad's. Your colleague legitimizes the annexation of Crimea by a so-called presence as an objective observer. [[the speaker shows photophrases]] We are members of an alliance that has been responsible for security in our parts for more than 70 years. In addition, it makes a fist to those who could threaten us. In this context, we have been asked by allies, the Baltic States and Poland, countries which have not been freed from the USSR for so long, to take a number of supportive measures and to create deterrents, knowing that Russia is not a partner today but is and will be a factor and that a lasting solution will always consist of diplomatic consultations, albeit in such consultations it is best to come to the table as an equal partner. It is a pity that your idol Putin only understands the language of power. So our country is one of the twenty-eight countries that, as a loyal ally within the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, takes up its share of it under the leadership of Germany. And it is indeed a political choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u43	Minister, I cannot blame you for being unfair. You admit it, it is mainly a political strategy that is being followed, that of deterrents against Russia. I really do have a problem with that because I believe that Russia, Putin, can at the moment be an ally in geopolitical terms against this one really great threat, namely that of Islamic radicalism and terrorism, against terrorist states such as the Caliphate of IS in Syria and Iraq. In this respect, Minister, perhaps you should follow Putin's example. You do that for a piece, too. Putin is also talking to Assad, rightly so. We have now also become objective allies of Assad because we ourselves bomb the theories of IS in Syria. I can give you my regards from Assad because he is very pleased that our country has finally taken that decision and now, together with his troops, is also attacking on Syrian territory. But let us not mix this dossier too much. As far as Russia is concerned, however, it is certainly the case that we are taking the wrong approach and that we are on the side of the United States. I have always been a great supporter of NATO. Together with the former President of the Belgian Atlantic Youth, your group leader, we have long defended NATO in its fight against communism but never in its fight against Russia. Russia has been liberated from communism and it is a wrong strategy to want to put the Cold War policy into practice again today and to want to see Russia as an enemy when it is our ally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u44	Madam Minister, my question was actually addressed to the Prime Minister, but he didn't feel like coming. Apparently, he's already prepping for a megaconclave, a superministry council after our national holiday, on July 23rd. We read in the press that the federal majority will then make a bilan. I'm looking forward to that. Colleagues, also from the N-VA, I would rather have a prime minister who makes a bilan on the national holiday than a Flemish Prime Minister who talks about spitting and seeking conflict on the Flemish holiday. That bilan must be done fairly, Mr De Roover, and completely. There is a serious problem at the moment about which the newspapers are also reporting. Ik quote La Libre Belgique: "Federal budget: still no figures".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u45	What's it about? Two Monitoring Committee reports were announced, a first report in principle on 6 July and a full report on 13 July. Today it is whispered that the majority is doing everything in their power not to get the annoying report of the Monitoring Committee, which shows that there is no budgetary order, especially for the mega-conference and the super-Minister's Council, for Charles Michel's good news show. The report has been announced, but is not here today. I wanted to question the Prime Minister on this, but I look forward to your answer, Madam Secretary. You know I like you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u47	Mrs Demir, because Minister Wilmès is, for example, someone who is not constantly arguing, who is not constantly looking for the conflict, who even as former ships of Saint Genesius-Rode was kind enough to go down to the Flemish holiday and listen to the discourse of Mr Bourgeois and Mr Peumans. That's how sympathetic Mrs. Wilmès is. So my question is what exactly is meant to be? On July 23rd I don't want a good news show, but a real bilan. When is the report from the Monitoring Committee due? When are we supposed to know the summer report by the Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, a future Mechelar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u48	Mr President, Mr Calvo, thank you for your question and for your kind words. I also think that a bilan in the middle of a mandate is a very good thing. We said we would. That will happen on July 23rd. As regards the reports of the Monitoring Committee, on 6 July, we received a first report from the Monitoring Committee on the implementation of budgetary measures. Following receipt of this report, working groups were set up to analyse it. As regards the report of the Monitoring Committee as we know the classic, this is currently being prepared. The Committee will normally meet on Monday to review the report before it is published. Several working groups will then come together to analyse the figures line by line and to make any technical corrections as is always the case. I would remind you that this work was confirmed by the Prime Minister and on Tuesday by myself in the Finance and Budget Committee. As I said in committee, work on the 2017 budget will resume from 16 August.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I like you, but I am still hungry. I'm declaring myself. Apparently, the first report of the Monitoring Committee has already been prepared. That was also announced, on July 6th. Are you willing to make it available? I think that's a logical question. That first report has been announced and is apparently still being editorially discussed in working groups. Mr President, I am also looking at you. It is the tradition that when such a report is announced, it is delivered to Parliament in the first instance. Will you ask the government that? Will Minister Wilmès answer that today? I would like to know that in the context of this Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u50	You're not going to answer, Madam Secretary? I will do what is necessary, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u51	Thank you, Mr President. It is important that this is made very clear. The President of the Chamber will request that preliminary report from the Monitoring Committee. I'm looking forward to that, because I'd like to know. I'm rounding up. As far as the final report is concerned, it is also said that there will be a number of working groups. Madam Secretary, I insist that the bilan be fair on 23 July. We are already reading that our finance minister is putting us up with an additional deficit of EUR 760 million. Once again, we're losing tax revenue. The report of the Monitoring Committee should be made available. People have a right to know what our finance minister is doing, what he's making of it. This should not be limited to Mr Van Rompuy's blog and opposition criticism. The Monitoring Committee's figures should also be made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u52	Madam Secretary, I am sorry to ask you a question about the redesign, but since every successful project has 12 fathers and no one can be detected, I have to ask the mother. The redesign, reorganising the federal government, not only aims to improve services to citizens, but also has important budgetary objectives. It builds up from 100 million euros and lasts to 750 million euros in 2020. The Minister responsible said in reply to a question that he is not competent to do so. When asked about the figures, he says that he cannot answer them, because he does not want names and blemishes, and that it would not be collegial with respect to colleagues in the federal government if he replied. We must be somewhat alarmed by this language, it seems to suggest that there is no good news, that bad news is coming about with regard to government redesign. The Halle Tower in Bruges wasn't built in one year either. However, we are now 14 July and so I ask, given that we are halfway, what your attitude is in this regard. Firstly, during Easter budgetary control, the Minister agreed that there would be an overview of the state of the budget for 2017. The moment that overview would be delivered seems to me to be now. What exactly is in that overview? Secondly, do you not agree that there should be a central, at least political, point of contact for the whole project? Who are we supposed to be with? If it is not Minister Vandeput, it may be Minister Jambon, you or the Prime Minister, or the President of the Chamber. I don't know, but who's politically responsible for the redesign project? Thirdly, will you maintain the budgetary objective for the project this year, next year and towards the end of the legislature? What is your attitude to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u53	Mr Bogaert, following the decision of the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2015 to launch a redesign programme, six pathways were defined and placed under the care of the various competent ministers. A vision paper was drawn up for each of the six sections, which clearly defines the field of application and provides a clear vision of the priorities. It is true that the drawing of the vision has taken some time. However, that was necessary to ensure the support of everyone. We've been working faster since a few weeks. I quote from the notification of the budget conclave of Easter: "The steering committee will make additional proposals, at the latest in the preparation of the 2017 budget." New pathways, which require approval of the vision notes, are indeed under development. To the question of reporting, I can answer that at this stage a report was presented at the Council of Ministers on 20 May and forwarded to the Finance and Budget Committee on the occasion of the debates on budgetary adjustment. The notification also mentions the following: "The yield of 100 million was achieved in 2016 for routes 1 to 6 as approved by the Council of Ministers of 3 July 2015. The Minister responsible for civil service matters shall ensure that the expected revenue is achieved without imposing additional linear measures on the departments." So it's about a global yield of 100 million. As a reminder, the proceeds should not necessarily be realised on the expenditure side. It concerns both expenditure and revenue, by improving recovery and recovery. As Minister for the Budget, I will, of course, pay particular attention to the opinion of the Monitoring Committee on the estimated revenue, which will be available on Monday. Finally, we must not forget that the redesign project is initially not a budget project, but an initiative to improve the efficiency of the government. For this reason, the redesign project is coordinated from the cabinet of the Minister of Civil Service, as mentioned in the notification I have just quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. First of all, you were very clear at the end. It is indeed the responsibility of the Vandeput cabinet to look at the redesign project. This is hereby officially noted. Secondly, it is high time you received an additional report. We are now in the budgetary negotiations. This means that, if you don't have any figures now, what was meant to be, today, July 14, 2016, is high time to have a state of affairs. Thirdly, the budgetary revenue is still not detailed for each sub-project. It seems to me to be a difficulty that this is still not the case. Finally, we are pleased that you clearly indicate who should be in charge of the project. After all, I was afraid that the redesign project was being found out and that no one was responsible anymore. It would be a pity if such a beautiful project were to be found out and eventually ended up in a slide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u55	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, there are an average of 850 incidents per week of domestic violence in our country. To this number, unfortunately, we must add those who do not manifest themselves and who may never manifest themselves. But more concerned is the number of people who die each year under the blows of their spouse: 160 victims. I think the victims are almost exclusively women. As part of the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Violence against Women, launched last December, a truly interesting pilot project has just been launched. The aim of this project is to enable police and prosecutors to assess the risks of domestic violence objectively when a report is drawn up. This is a simple, fast and effective assessment grid. I really believe that prevention, detection and evaluation are essential for an effective policy to combat violence against women, but we must also be able to act in practice when the danger and the risk of recidivism are present. Madam Secretary of State, I have two very specific questions. A temporary ban on residence may be issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the event of domestic violence. Has an evaluation of this measure finally been carried out? What is your opinion on the effectiveness of this measure? Are further measures being studied with your Justice and Home Affairs colleagues to avoid these tragedies in the future? I am thinking in particular of the system of mobile phones of great danger, which was widespread in France in 2014. Could this system be transposed in Belgium? I think it is really our duty, as politicians, to take measures to protect and secure victims even more when they are in a situation of great danger and fear for their lives. We cannot accept that, even today, so many women die as a result of the blows of their spouses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u56	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as my colleague, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, said, 160 women die of domestic violence each year. That figure is really scary. Unfortunately, it does not reflect the magnitude of the phenomenon (physical and verbal attacks, rape, forced marriages, honour killings), as too many victims simply do not dare to file a complaint. In 2014, almost 4,000 complaints of partner violence were filed with the police. The number of rape complaints was 2,882, a figure that did not betray reality. It is estimated that less than 10 per cent of sexual offences are reported. You have announced the implementation of a new risk assessment instrument for spousal violence. This new project is the result of the fifth National Plan against Gender-Based Violence, which includes 235 measures that you submitted in December 2015. This theme has, moreover, been at the centre of the discussions of the opinion committee for social empowerment chaired by Mrs Fabienne Winckel for several years. A resolution will be presented shortly on this subject. Madam Secretary of State, can you give us more details on this new tool? When will it be fully operational? What will be the added value for police and justice? Will it be accessible throughout the country? What other measures are you planning to present in the near future, in order to strengthen the fight against extreme violence between partners? The fifth plan to combat gender-based violence is an ambitious project with 235 measures resulting from the initiative of the Federal Government, but also from the Communities and the Regions. Can you already take a first look at its implementation and the policies implemented in 2016? What are the priorities in the fight against rape?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u57	Mr President, the violence perpetrated by a person in the family circle is of every kind. Domestic violence is a form of domestic violence where violence is directed against the spouse or former spouse. When spouses separate, there is no guarantee that this means stopping violence. Separation after years of violence often leads to a new escalation in violence, as the other does not accept that the relationship is broken. The phenomenon of domestic violence has for a long time remained in the shadow of privacy. In 2010, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men conducted a study on the phenomenon. The study revealed that one in seven women had suffered at least one act of violence from their former spouse in the 12 months prior to the investigation. As you mentioned, these are almost 40,000 cases a year, which means more than 100 cases a day. In most cases, there is psychological pressure. Verbal violence is by far the most common form, followed by threats and intimidation and then beatings. According to the most recent figures from the federal police, dating back to 2014, domestic violence has resulted in the death of the victim in 119 cases. These are murders or involuntary homicides. I repeat that these are 119 cases, not 160 as reported in the press, but these figures are nevertheless shocking. It is clear that violence in the relational context is a serious social problem. That is why I launched, in December 2015, the National Plan of Action against Gender-Related Violence 2015-2019. The plan includes 235 new measures to combat gender-based violence. A monitoring procedure for the Plan was presented to the interdepartmental group last April. A progress report on the 2015-2019 National Action Plan is scheduled for mid-term, so at the end of 2017. These 235 measures are structured around several themes: the collection of quantitative and qualitative data, a programme of action to raise awareness and prevent gender-related violence, support and assistance to victims, and the development of protective measures. It is in this latter category that the risk assessment instrument for spousal violence can be found. Risk factors are characteristics associated with the likelihood of certain scenes of violence occurring or reoccurring. The evaluation instrument was designed by UC Leuven-Limburg as a questionnaire to be completed by a police officer, verbalizing authority, prosecutor or other professional. It is composed of thirteen risk and protective factors, assessed on the basis of each spouse. The dynamics of the torque are thus taken into account. The result provides an image that identifies the main factors to be improved as a matter of priority, as well as advice on risk management. The instrument enables preventive and more effective follow-up on the basis of scientifically calculated risk with the aim of preventing recidivism, which is, inter alia, possible through the application of existing measures such as a temporary restraining order, a restraining order or protective measures against children. Yesterday, a first training course was organized to enable field actors to become familiar with this instrument. The reason we started this training during the holidays is because, during this period of the year, domestic violence is more prevalent. In conclusion, the risk assessment instrument is a new and highly effective tool in the fight against domestic violence. It is not a miracle medicine, but I am confident that it will contribute in the broad context of the presentation of integrated help to reduce the risk of spousal violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. It is true that the subject matter is important: 119 victims die as a result of the beatings carried out by their spouse, it is not an insignificant figure! Action must therefore be taken. Unfortunately, you did not hear my questions. I asked you if an assessment had been made of the measure concerning the temporary ban on residence. I did not understand your answer to that question. My second question was whether further measures would be taken against such women, in particular, who felt at some point that their lives were in danger. How can we help them when they feel, as a victim, the danger is present. I'm referring to this phone that can be used in case of great danger. This system has borne fruit and proved its worth in France. In my opinion, it would be interesting to work on this tool. The Socialist Group has also tabled a proposal to extend the victim's arsenal of protection against the risk of recidivism. This is a subject that can be addressed in depth in the Social Empowerment Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, by your reply, you confirm that the government has made the fight against gender-based violence a priority. It's essential. What you have just said about the fact that action had to be taken before the holidays seems important to me. For if the holiday period is a priori favourable to couples, it can also be unfavourable because couples can "be more tense". What strikes me very strongly, too, is the risk that the children will reproduce what they have known in their parents. That is why we must be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of 2012, Parliament adopted the anti-discrimination law allowing Social Inspectorate officials to pay social deductions by the workers who work here through abuse of the Posting of Workers Directive when they find abuse. I'll explain. Now they are paid a wage here, but social security is paid in the country of origin. If there is abuse, our administrations can impose our own social charges. This law entered into force in 2012 and has been applied several times since. We know that the European Commission has initiated proceedings before the Court of Justice. A procedure before the Court of Justice does not suspend the law. It is not because there is a procedure before the Court of Justice that the law no longer exists. There has also been no request for suspension. So until today, the law exists, but it is not being applied. The administration does not traditionally like to apply this law, I personally have experienced it. In September-October 2014, we had to make it clear to them that she should, but that is not happening today. Firstly, what is the legal reason why a law published in the Belgian Official Journal is not applied? Secondly, do you intend to apply this law in anticipation of a positive or negative verdict which we will have to accept?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in addition to the question just put by my colleague, I shall return to the subject of social dumping. A few days ago, you organized a communication operation. You attended with your colleague Mr Borsus, who was there a moment ago, the control of a construction site in Forest. Mr Secretary of State, it is no longer time for communication but for action! As you know, Belgium is the European country most affected by social dumping. This has been confirmed recently again in the construction sector. Two out of three controlled companies are in violation. Three out of four workers are not in good standing. The number of jobs lost by the end of the legislature in this sector is estimated at 45,000. It can't last any longer. This scourge has serious and dramatic consequences. This situation in Belgium requires us to continue to pioneer in the fight against social dumping. We need to have ambitious legislation. The anti-abuse law passed under the previous legislature, which has just been mentioned, is one. That seems obvious to many. Yet this is not the way your government has chosen. I want a few examples for proof. In public procurement, instead of adopting (you were not there yet, it is your predecessor and your government team) ambitious legislation to effectively combat social dumping, you have chosen light legislation to keep the dictatorship of the lowest price. Another example is that you had to transpose – and here you are more concerned – by 18 June, a European directive to better combat social dumping with genuine solidarity responsibility. It's a month later. We have the opinion of the social partners and there is still nothing on the bench of parliamentarians. Worse still, in the opinion of the social partners, it is clear that the government will once again not take full advantage of the possibilities offered to it in this directive. Finally, you have two speeches: you say that you are concerned about this subject, but you are not doing much. I'm nice to say "not much." Mr Secretary of State, I come to my questions. When do you intend to transpose the 2014 European Directive? Will you change your shoulder rifle and introduce an ambitious bill? What are you doing in the bilateral agreements that you mentioned in committee? Will you take account of the recent judgments of the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous legislature, an anti-social abuse law was in fact introduced, which allows the social inspection services to ignore A1 certificates of foreign origin for foreign workers and thus to effectively change the wording of the statute. However, the European Commission has turned a blind eye to us and has opened proceedings at the European Court of Justice. I will continue my predecessor's policy. He's done two things. On the one hand, at all costs, Belgian legislation is defended at the European Court. On the other hand, since there is uncertainty about this legislation, we are imposing a moratorium and we are not applying the legislation today. That is a good policy, because if it turns out that the law needs to be amended or amended afterwards, we will have to repay sanctions or fines or recovered deficits. It is therefore a logical application of the system. I do not think that we can talk about a gratuite European procedure or talk about it. Some of your fellow Members have referred to this. Once again, Belgium has to respect European case law and make full use of the procedures. However, we are not standing still. Meanwhile, we are taking tough measures against social dumping, because it is important for me and for the government. And with success! You referred just now to what I did with Mr Borsus, in particular the presentation of the 1 year plan for fair competition in construction. The construction sector and even the syndicates are responding positively. Two thirds of the measures we agreed on against social dumping were implemented. Nor do we sit still in other areas. If Europe has eleven yellow cards to adapt European legislation on posting and therefore cannot move forward, then we are taking action to see how we can take concrete action. I have already contacted several countries to discuss the possibility of bilateral agreements for better administrative but also political cooperation. Ten days ago, I visited Germany. We have tried to unblock such an agreement. We're making progress. In September, contacts will be made with France, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. These collaborative projects are on the way and I hope that agreements will be reached. We are also taking further steps. For example, as you referred to, Mrs Thyssen's proposals must also be discussed. Belgium has taken a clear position in favour of strengthening the protection of posted workers. On the other hand, the proposal on the table refers to a secondment of up to two years. Can this period be further reduced? I am open to debate, but there is a need to make a difference between the sectors because I think that in the IT, chemistry and industry sectors, secondment is also essential for our companies. So I won't be crowing too soon. The fight against social dumping must continue and be strengthened. That's a commitment from this government and myself. On the ground, I see the first positive results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, what you say is illegal and not a good policy. You say that there is a moratorium on the implementation of the law. Listen carefully: Parliament has decided and the government is talking about a moratorium. You can't! A government can't decide not to implement a law. You don't have the authority to do that! It is not because there is a procedure before the European Court that you can introduce a moratorium because that procedure is not suspensive. The Constitution stipulates that a law must be implemented. The executive does not have the power to suspend the implementation of a law, and yet that is what you are doing. A moratorium is illegal. What you have said is not in accordance with the law. It's not a good policy either. You say you may have to pay a fine. That is correct, but if you do not impose the fine now and you still win the trial, you will never be able to collect that money again. You'll lose money if you win anyway. If you lose, you will have to pay back what you have received extra. I repeat, this is illegal, you cannot declare a moratorium. It is also not a good policy because you are losing money for social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u64	I understand, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are doing a series of things and you have different contacts. However, I think that we are no longer having an announcement effect. We must move on to concrete actions and legislation that comes into force. We are waiting for the royal decrees of the law on public procurement in order for the law to come into force. Every month that passes, jobs are lost. Hurry! We're already late. We are waiting for the law to transpose the implementing directive. We're late. The proposals that we tabled, together with the sp.a., on the table of Parliament, with ideas that you had described as good, are not included in your current proposals. Hurry! In your bilateral contacts, don't forget the Netherlands. There is a lot of detachment with this country, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u66	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2016, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: . as point 2: - the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 laying down the detailed rules for the calculation of the ombuds contribution to the financing of the energy ombudsdienst for the financial year 2016 and subsequent (Nos 1948/1 to 3); . Finally, I would like to point out that: - the draft law of Mr Brecht Vermeulen and Mr Franky Demon amending the law of 21 December 1998 on safety at football matches with regard to the clubs concerned (No. 1955/1). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the draft law confirming the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 laying down, for the 2016 and subsequent budget years, the special arrangements for the calculation of the mediation fee for the financing of the energy mediation service (Nos. 1948/1 to 3); - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - the bill of Messrs. Brecht Vermeulen and Franky Demon amending the Law of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches with regard to the clubs concerned (No 1955/1). Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u68	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u69	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is a good thing. After all, the support mechanism for the still to be built wind farms is being re-examined and reformed. Colleagues, that is not the first time. The previous government has already implemented a reform. It is always very important, when such a reform is made, that a balance is sought. We must ensure a certain investment climate and clarity for future investors, on the one hand, and be careful not to oversubsidise, on the other. After all, the invoice for the families and the companies should not be rushed to the level uselessly. The present draft law and the future royal decree are an important step in the reform of the support mechanisms for the two parks Norther and Interestel. The revision will reduce over-subsidisation and according to the Minister, a total amount of EUR 986 million will not be passed on to consumers. It is also a good thing that support is differentiated by park and in relation to the changed economic conditions. Madam Minister, CD&V is therefore satisfied with the content of the draft, yet we ask you to look more forward and look around you. Looking forward is important. We are taking an important step here today, but that is not the end of it. Apart from the Norther and Interestel parks, three new parks will be created and, preferably as soon as possible, their support mechanism will have to be clarified. We therefore call on you to develop a new support framework for them soon. We also ask you to look around you and follow developments in our neighbouring countries closely. Last week we all heard the news from the Netherlands, that the wind park Borssele can be built much cheaper than expected. We have to look at that, too. It turns out that a wind farm can be built at such low cost worldwide. Of course, that raises a number of questions. We have to be critical but also honest and we have to admit that an international comparison cannot be made simply because the regulations and subsidy systems are very different. In the Netherlands, for example, we are talking about public procurement, while in Belgium we are working with a system of domain concessions, with many conditions. I believe that we should be able to analyse our own system thoroughly and critically. Madam Minister, CD&V will approve this bill, but we urge you to look ahead and submit the new subsidy mechanisms for future parks to Parliament soon. We also ask you to look into what is happening in this area in our neighbouring countries. Finally, we ask you to do what is necessary to avoid oversubsidisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already expressed our views in committee, so I will be brief. To combat global warming and ensure our electricity supply, renewable energy is essential. However, the development of renewable energy must not be done in any way. The environmental, social and economic advantages and disadvantages must be taken into account. It is necessary to avoid the additional costs and other difficulties which could lead to a massive rejection of these solutions by the population. The aim of the PS is therefore to allow the development of renewable energy by limiting costs for consumers. In this regard, the bill is moving in the right direction. In 2013, the previous government also carried out a reform to lower the costs of offshore wind. In its 2015 study, CREG highlighted elements to make new savings compared to 2013: technological developments improving turbine performance, declining interest rates allowing producers to finance their projects at lower cost. These objective developments therefore help to reduce the cost of offshore support. That is why the PS Group will vote in favour of this bill. Colleagues, this bill has broad support in our Parliament. The law could be passed without difficulty. Unfortunately, Minister Marghem's way of working has once again delayed and inflamed parliamentary debates. In November 2015, it issued a very detailed press release announcing that the federal government was reforming the offshore wind farm subsidy. It was then almost seven months before a bill was finally introduced. This long delay has jeopardized the development of offshore wind turbine projects. Producers have been kept in a state of uncertainty, at the risk of investors abandoning the construction of new offshore wind turbines. Then, in the Finance Committee, the minister tried to get us to pass amendments to the program law in just two hours without preparation. Seven months for the government, two hours for the parliament, Mrs Marghem, that shows great contempt for the work of the deputies! When reform is necessary and urgent, we are always ready to work quickly. But don't count on us to vote for laws without even having the time to analyse them in depth. This is not our understanding of the work of parliamentarians. In the future, I hope that you will have understood that the passages in force are not working and that the government's work is not growing. There have been shortcomings in the working method, but also in the communication. While the federal government, with a lot of nerves, continues to denounce the misinformation it is alleged to have been subjected to, we have been given a flagrant misinformation offence in this offshore wind report. Even before this bill was tabled in parliament, the MR and the minister announced on social networks that the reform of support for the offshore would raise 55 euros per household. We then obviously wondered: is it 55 euros a month or a year? We then analysed the texts and asked the minister the question, and we discovered that they were in fact 55 euros per household, saved over a period of 19 years. Nineteen years, just that! It's just over two euros a year. And the minister has not deprived herself of spreading this misinformation on social networks. Of course, you did not consider it useful to say that, over the same period of 19 years, the increase in VAT on electricity from 6 to 21 % will cost consumers on average almost EUR 2 000. In conclusion, I therefore call on consumers to make their own accounts and to judge for themselves where the misinformation comes from. Minister, I am pleased to meet you often in other decision-making places. I appreciate your distribution. I salute your oratory art. You often have the right line that flies. But, speaking of a fly, can you tell me what fly you caught so that you attacked the privacy of our colleague Mrs Karine Lalieux? I do not think that Parliament gains from the fact that our debates are flying at the level of the pâquerettes! However, minister, I know you well. I know you very well. I may be the one who knows you best in this House. And I think your verbal aggression has its origin in the fact that you don't have control over your case. Minister, get together! Stop your low-floor quarrels. Study your files, and you may recover an ounce of credibility, not from the Socialist Party, but from your own majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u71	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us is part of the federal government's desire to protect the interests of consumers without hampering the development of renewable energies, including offshore wind power. The goal of the government and the majority is to continue our efforts to achieve our renewable energy production targets, both at European and international level. How is this project positive for end consumers? According to CREG's estimates, the total cost of supporting offshore wind production for the period 2009-2040 is expected to be around EUR 16.7 billion, or EUR 18.3 billion if the connections are taken into account. For an average household, the tariff surcharge is currently 15 euros per year, with the three parks in operation. The cumulative cost, with the entry into service of Rentel and Norther parks, is expected to be around 33 euros per year per household. The projection is 45 euros when the last three parks are put into operation. The decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 November 2015 and the agreement reached on 8 June 2016 with Rentel and Norther, reflected in the bill before us, will enable all consumers to save more than one billion euros by 2040. These forecasts will, of course, have to be adjusted in the light of the subsequent negotiations for the last three wind farms. The majority chose to opt for an objective criterion of differentiation, i.e. the equivalent number of hours in full load, i.e. the number of hours per year during which wind farms actually produce electricity at full efficiency. Up to now, offshore wind farms have received a flat rate of return on investments of 12%, which is quite advantageous compared to other countries. The European Commission has also asked a series of questions about the level of remuneration proposed in relation to neighbouring countries under the pre-notification procedure which had been made. On this occasion, the Minister recalled the differences between Belgian and foreign legal systems. For example, most foreign countries are tendering, while Belgium has a system based on the granting of state-owned concessions. Moreover, the parameters for determining the expected return of investors should not be obscured. I mention in particular the geographical and geological conditions of the various sites, the size and density of the park, the structure of the capital, the technological evolution, the risks taken over or not by the investors, etc. The Minister had the opportunity to come back in detail during the committee work on these various elements. She confirmed that the Royal Decree implementing the draft law would also be notified to the European Commission. The proposed reform, aimed at projects at Norther and Rentel sites, introduces a reduction in the required return on equity: we will increase from 12 to 10.5%. It therefore reduces support for production and introduces a developed cost of energy differentiated by park. The Council of State had questioned the fate of the facilities whose financial closure had already taken place. In order to avoid any contradiction with the Energy Charter, as well as with Articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution, the majority adopted an amendment, supported by certain opposition parties, which will allow for a transitional period for facilities that have already been financially closed between 1 May 2016 and 31 December 2016. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of this project is also and above all to avoid a speculative bubble such as that which has developed in Flanders and Wallonia in recent years as part of the support for photovoltaics. It may be necessary to put some things back in place, because in Wallonia this scandal, which has been mentioned again recently, which has been generated by a whole series of clumsy decisions of the olive majority, has cost and will continue to cost the citizens a fortune. Thus, according to the CwaPE, the Walloon regulator of energy, the overall cost by 2024 will be no less than 715 million, which is 65 euros per household. We are therefore far from everything the previous speaker has said. We must recognize here all the mistakes, all the wanderings of the Walloon government. Defending the consumer while pursuing our objectives in the fight against global warming, these are two objectives that, I hope, will enable this bill to gain the widest possible unanimity that will, at least at the level of the MR group, lead us to support it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u72	Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once it is not customary, since the beginning of the legislature, Madam Minister, with regard to your projects, we clearly welcome this reduction in support for Norther and Rentel offshore park. Indeed, since 2014, the cost of offshore wind has been reduced and therefore support had to be reduced. It is simply good management to reduce this support on a cost-based basis. This is also what the final consumer expects. In recent years, many studies have concluded that cost savings in the range of 32-46% can be achieved in offshore wind by 2020. In committee, I was quoting the Swedish Vattenfall who won a call for tenders in Denmark for the construction of Horns Rev 3 Park at a price of 103 euros/megawatt hour off connection. Since then, there has been a new world record. We talked about it earlier. Indeed, the world's leading developer of offshore wind farms, DONG Energy, is the winner of the Dutch tender for the construction and operation of two wind farms for 72.70 euros/megawatthour off-line, over fifteen years. The Dane won against a dozen consortia mobilized for this very competitive competition. The price was the only selection criterion with an already very low ceiling of 124 euros/megawatt hour. Even if this is the case with a call for tenders, as has been mentioned, it is indicative of the reduction in offshore wind costs and technological research will certainly allow us to go even further. We must therefore remain attentive to the future. We still have to conclude three financial clauses for three parks, which I draw the government's attention to. Moreover, even if we are in opposition, we welcome the reduction of the return on equity to 10.5%, a great step forward, admittedly, even if it took time to do so: a press release in November, a decision of June 10, followed by the apocalyptic scenario with the services of the House, an amendment tabled at the same time as a bill! Minister, it's also a world record, it didn't happen before you! You can put it in your Guinness Book when necessary. We all know that! The development of renewable energy has an undeniable financial cost, but it is essential to ensure the energy transition. We must assume this and explain it to the citizens. Belgium needs these big investments and we must dare to support them otherwise we will find ourselves stuck with a production stock that is already obsolete. During the debate in committee, I would remind you that your predecessor had capped the offshore contribution for electricity-intensive companies. This measure was welcomed at the time, as it protected the competitiveness of our companies. Should we not now move forward and consider taking more account of companies which are not large consumers of electricity but are nevertheless intensive in electricity? You are well aware that there is a strong pressure to come to this element and I will insist because it is an element of competitiveness of our businesses and SMEs that is fundamental. In committee, you said that the government did not intend to include this category of SMEs in the declining system for large electricity consumers. Indeed, you said, this strategic measure has an impact on the budget which the CREG has already assessed in the context of the MOG calculations. You have accepted – as we have agreed between us – the idea of communicating the CREG calculations to us and I therefore expect, once all the procedures have been completed, to benefit from the full transparency and the Commission's calculations. But that's not all. In the meantime, CREG has published PwC's study, which provides a clear assessment of the competitive disadvantage faced by electro-intensive companies. Therefore, Minister, are you going to take any action in their favour to preserve their competitiveness, given their importance in our economic fabric? I've already asked you. On the other hand, we have not received any response to the energy standard. That is why I ask you the question: have you made progress in its implementation? It's mentioned in the government agreement, but you're not very loquacious about it. I would have liked to know your approach in this area, since you have avoided answering in committee. In addition, we do not understand why you announced in an interview that you wanted to open these offshore parks to citizens through participation in cooperatives, whereas unfortunately nothing in this bill deals with this opening. I confess not to grasp, because I find it difficult to see how and when you could demand such an opening after the completion of the financial closure, the closure of the financing of the parks, which we are going to adopt today. In conclusion, you were announcing a federal energy vision before July 21st at a committee meeting on June 14th, and I can provide you with the document. It's July 14 and we still haven't seen anything coming. You can imagine the suspense, Madam Minister, especially since this deadline is no longer even mentioned in your memorandum to the Energy Committee on Tuesday. Should we infer that once again, you are not going to respect your timing? I dare not believe it, you who are so ordered, as everyone knows. Will this time limit that you have imposed on yourself be respected? This is, in any case, the last question I wanted to ask you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u73	Mr Calvo was registered as a speaker, but since he is absent, I pass the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be very brief. I thank you for your broad support for this text. Indeed, it allows us to meet our international obligations in terms of the percentage of renewable energy in our energy mix, at least for what will be developed for 2020. We will be very attentive, and I am responding in this way to a few interventions, to the support that we are going to negotiate for the last three parks. In fact, the CREG is again studying the particular situation of each of these projects with regard to the trend recently granted to the Netherlands. Through a form of cross-analysis and benchmarking, this really allows us to have the finest and most up-to-date analyses to be able to configure this support at the lowest level, while preserving an incentive to invest in these energies that involve a share of industrial risks. Indeed, even if they are more efficient, as pointed out by Mr de Lamotte, there is still an industrial situation in this context which is not yet fully mature. As the bankers have told us, the decline in these investments is about seven years, whereas these contracts are concluded for double or even triple (in Holland, 15 years old; in Belgium, 19 years old), they do not yet have the necessary visibility to be able to drastically reduce the elements that make up the financial set-up used by investors to deploy these investments. We hope to continue in good conditions. As soon as the procedures have been completed, I will pass on the analysis made by CREG in the framework of the MOG (Modular Offshore Grid), i.e. the taking at sea in relation to all categories of consumers, thus allowing you to refine with me the reading that one can have of the impact that these energies have on the various categories of end consumers and the support that they are given to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u75	Minister, I understand your answer to a project that, as you will understand, does not cause any difficulty. I remain with my three questions on the energy standard, the possibility of opening up the wind fields to citizen cooperatives and the timing of the energy pact or rather the federal vision of the energy pact. I'm staying with these three questions. So I'm going to spend a vacation in doubt. It is a question mark that you place on the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u76	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1911/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1911/4) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mr Klaps, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1948/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1948/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u82	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 406: Damien Thiéry, Benoît Piedboeuf, Luc Gustin - 40: Catherine Fonck - 1173: Karin Jiroflée, Anne Dedry, Muriel Gerkens, Karin Temmerman - 1615: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u83	(Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community) Mrs Fonck's 40 is decoupled and returned to
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u84	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (406/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (406/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Senesael, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u85	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I would like to thank all the colleagues who have participated in the discussions in committee on this motion for a resolution. These discussions were constructive. Even if the result cannot satisfy everyone, it is a specific step forward pending the National Alcohol Action Plan. I would like to go back to some of the points relating, in particular, to the consumption of alcohol among young people. Initially, this resolution aimed at them as a matter of priority. But as a result of the discussions, it tends to reach all segments of the population by ignoring gender issues. Very often alcohol is trivialized and its consumption is seen as a gesture of society with a warm connotation and which evokes sharing between friends and family. Or today for men, at the bar, watching the Tour de France. Young people are a particularly vulnerable group and that is why this resolution specifically targeted them. But a new phenomenon has emerged: binge drinking. At any event, where you meet young people between the ages of 15 and 25, it has become a habit. She's disastrous, of course. I would like to share information that has not been given in committee by going back to the statement made by the Intermutualist Agency, which shows how serious the damage is. For example, in 2014, 47 young people between the ages of 12 and 17 were admitted to emergencies each week as a result of alcohol abuse. Of 10,000 young people in the same age group, the number of weekly victims of suspected alcohol intoxication increased from 30 in 2008 to 34 in 2014. In absolute figures, there are 2,433 cases for 2014. Over 15 years, the increase is about 50%. For the first time, among the 12-17 year olds, and it is important not to make the gender distinction any more, the number of girls joined that of boys. It is among 17-year-olds that the phenomenon is truly worrying with 996 cases, 6% more than the previous year. The abuse of alcohol can lead to violent and aggressive behaviour, risky sexual acts, ethyl comas and other risky behaviours, particularly driving intoxicated. These situations are of concern. The problem is not limited to young people, since in adult men aged 45-64, alcohol consumption is also particularly high. In addition, there are risk groups (such as pregnant women) and risk situations (alcohol in the workplace or in traffic). It is well known that alcohol abuse has a significant impact on health and contributes significantly to premature mortality from cirrhosis and other diseases caused by over-consumption of alcohol. According to the Public Health FPS, one in ten Belgians actually have problematic alcohol consumption. The social cost for Belgium is estimated at €4.2 billion on an annual basis and at European level, we are talking about €155 billion. Consumption in Belgium is in the European average; it is equivalent to 10 litres of pure alcohol per capita per year. That is why this resolution lays the necessary foundations for the plan to combat the abuse of alcohol in order to protect and raise awareness among the population, particularly young people. Of course, the will is to act closely with the Communities and local authorities. Communities, provinces and municipalities have an extremely important role to play in preventing and empowering families and young people from the dangers of abuse of alcohol. That is why we hope that, in close consultation with the Communities and with the involvement of the provinces and municipalities, an active campaign of prevention and accountability will be carried out to warn families and young people of the dangers of alcohol and the risks of abuse. It also seems important to operate at the communal level to develop projects for young people to raise awareness of the danger of alcohol abuse. The local government must strengthen its collaboration with actors on the ground in order to achieve this objective. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, in some communes, at least to my knowledge in Nivelles, Uccle and in my municipality of Linkebeek, there is a desire to put in place a police order which prohibits alcohol consumption in public circles, unless otherwise authorized, for example in the event of a festival or other organisation. This decision, taken at the local level by the municipal council, has already fully demonstrated its effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u86	Mr. Thiéry, at first, I didn't plan to interrupt you at all. You refer to the specific nature of the communes. This is a point that is anything but negligible. However, I would like to remind the majority that there have been many opportunities to solve an important problem with night shops selling alcohol. These provisions need to be adjusted from a legislative point of view. Existing laws and regulations are circumvented so that these night shops can continue to sell alcohol at night. And alcohol sold at night is not only source in a number of cases of excessive and harmful consumption, but, let us remember, is also at the root of famous problems of maintaining public order, whether in terms of public safety, health or tranquillity. Mr Thiéry, debates have taken place in the Committee on the Economy and several texts have been put on the agenda. Several weeks ago, the majority had the opportunity to move forward. It makes me smile a little bit that, in a second stage, in a motion for a resolution, we come all of a sudden to say how important it would be, in substance, to work on this subject. In order to make progress and, above all, to be effective, certain aspects of the Act of 10 November 2006 needed to be revised. That has not been done. This was rejected by the majority with a back of arms. I call for some consistency from the majority. It is too easy afterwards to come and say that this should also be achieved. In this respect, I can only regret the double playing of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u87	Mrs Fonck, it is true that we had this discussion in committee. There are two opposing factors. On the one hand, some initiatives have already been taken at the local level. They showed that they were bearing fruit. The purpose of the resolution is to refer to these positive experiences and to encourage local authorities to move in the same direction. In one of the amendments you tabled, I understand your willingness to ban the sale of alcohol in night shops or even in service stations. This is where our ideas are opposed. There is a law in this area. First, it must be implemented. Secondly, as I said in committee, I do not think that the systematic purchase of alcohol in a night shop is intended for direct consumption in the field, in the public sphere or at the wheel. A number of people will buy alcohol after the opening hours of normal stores for consumption at home or among friends. Our position is as follows: no, we do not want to ban, but to regulate and we want the law to be enforced. It's another approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u88	It was refused, in the Committee on the Economy, to adapt the law of November 2006, which would have really allowed the municipalities to have all the tools possible and imaginable to make decisions, when necessary, on the opening of these shops and on the sale of alcohol during the night in particular. The problem is that these municipalities are now very poor, because these stores have found subtleties in the law to circumvent the meaning of what was originally planned. Fortunately, we had special features for bookstores, for example. In this case, it is the subterfuge found by these night-shops to continue, without any limitation, even when the municipalities would like to impose it. I find it a shame that not having given all the tools to the communes to enable them to pursue more incisive policies when necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u89	I will also go back indirectly to this problem because, in the end, there are legal measures available to the legislator. The problem is that they are not always implemented. As a general rule, they are even bypassed. There is indeed a need to enforce the law as it is. I would also like to stress our willingness to increase controls. I had also made this intervention in committee because it is not only a question of increasing the number of checks but also of the effectiveness of these checks and in much more strategic places, such as the purpose of examinations, during evenings organised at carnivals, festivals. Following the discussion we had in committee, there was a very clear commitment on the part of the Public Health FPS to say that additional controls will be carried out, at certain frequencies. Persons will be trained for this purpose. I do not want to repeat the whole debate here but I gave in committee the number of blood alcohol tests that had been carried out from 2010 to 2014. I'm just saying that in 2014, we arrived, Mr. President, with more than 4,000 checks. The future goal is to achieve 5,000. I believe that there will gradually be positive elements at this level. In my view, the Arnoldus Convention will also have to be revised, in any case, before it is strengthened, in collaboration with the sector, because, in the end, it allows for a kind of self-regulation. In the end - it is a shocking element which has been taken up in committee - we can take all the decisions we want at the political level, if we do not do so with the various interested parties, in this case the sector, if we do not make it aware of the importance of regulating the use of alcohol with us, we lose an element, a complementary weapon, which allows us to move in the right direction. The Arnoldus Convention has a number of objectives. The example that I recall very quickly is that it prohibits the distribution or offering of drinks containing alcohol free of charge or at a symbolic price on the public highway. This corresponds exactly to the very essence of this resolution. The Arnoldus Convention governs the advertising of alcohol and in particular minors. It also covers road safety, the workplace, sport, alcohol content, etc. This agreement is well done. It will probably need to be reviewed at certain levels, but it needs to be re-discussed with the sector. In terms of care, we believe that the alcohol liaison project should be supported and expanded to as many hospitals as possible. I said that in committee too. It is estimated that 20% of patients are hospitalized in general hospitals who have a harmful or alcohol-at-risk consumption. The treatment of alcohol problems in general hospitals needs to be strengthened. To this end, a project entitled alcohol emergency liaison has been in place since 2009. Caregivers are trained and sensitized, which is fundamental to good care. An assessment and brief intervention with patients at risk is proposed within emergency services. The aim is not to offer itself as a substitute for potential "alcohol" interventions, but, on the contrary, to value the acquisition for the healthcare staff of good know-how. The aim is to provide basic tools and to bring caregivers to a sensitivity to alcoholology. And, in the most complex cases, stakeholders can be supported by specialized teams. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if I believe the information from the Public Health FPS, 9 out of 10 people with a serious alcohol problem are not in treatment. This is probably a fundamental element. This is commonly referred to as treatment gap. This can be explained by several factors, whether at the level of society, since alcoholism remains a taboo, at the level of care providers, of the organization of care and finally at the level of the person affected by the problem alcohol consumption itself, because, by definition, it will not recognize its dependence. Not to mention what is called social alcoholism, which is none other than alcoholism as well. These factors are interconnected and interact. Our role is to develop treatment methods in order to increase the opportunities for these people to enter health care. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before the House today is of course of great interest to us. I've heard the critics and I'm going to hear them again today: we're not going far enough. Some would have liked to make an alcohol plan on their side, but that was not the goal. Nor is it our objective to ban everything. Our goal is excessive and harmful consumption of alcohol. We therefore want, through this resolution, to lay the foundations for an alcohol plan to protect and raise awareness among the population and, in particular, young people. That is what is fundamental to my approach today. The Minister of Health has already announced that this alcohol plan will arrive at the end of the year. I think we can believe in the beginnings of the resolution and, then, the arrival of this alcohol plan, which may be a little more precise as regards the management of this phenomenon. We are convinced that the ambitious measures will be implemented because alcohol abuse has become a problem that currently affects far too many citizens and certainly our young people. It should be noted that there is a firm request to revise this resolution in committee after a year in order to be able to estimate its progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u90	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I obviously do not share the optimistic view of my excellent colleague, Damien Thiéry, even though I admit that we have been able to debate it, not enough to my liking. As you have just indicated, we have not gone far enough. Mr President, I will explain in a few words why my group will abstain. The excessive consumption of alcohol and its impact on the health of society is obviously no longer to be demonstrated. I will therefore not dwell on these observations that we all know. When MR's colleagues, Mr Thiéry, put their text on the table, my group was pleased that this important debate could finally be held. Of course, it won't surprise anyone. This will not surprise anyone in view of the work carried out during the previous legislature. I was not a member of the Health Committee but I know that the debate took place under the leadership of my colleague, Laurette Onkelinx. Should I recall the broad alcohol plan that, as Minister of Health, she had worked with all the ministers of the relevant federal entities, a plan which I am told was opposed by a number of political groups at the time, including that of the current Minister of Health, to satisfaction, I imagine, with brewing lobbies and alcohol? This will not surprise anyone in view of the recommendation we made to Mrs De Block from the moment she took office, concerning the establishment of an alcohol plan based on the principles contained in the global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol and in the European action plan to reduce the harmful use of alcohol 2012-2020. Also in view of the topical issue raised in May 2015, in which we regretted that the government attached little or no importance to this issue. I note, moreover, that little progress has been made in this area today. I am saying to the majority that the recurrent increase in excise duties on alcoholic beverages is in no way in line with this. This was not in any way a public health measure, but only a budgetary measure, which did not achieve any health objectives and was counterproductive to the budget, since consumers would buy these products abroad. We were therefore pleased, and yet my group will abstain from this text of the resolution for simple reasons. First of all, the way in which the work was carried out. Several interesting texts were on the table. It had been agreed to have a broad debate on the various elements of an effective policy to combat alcohol abuse, but that was not the case. A comprehensive amendment was tabled by the majority, who then pretended to want to take into account a series of amendments that we have co-signed. The discussions were short, the debate was closed. Mr Thiéry, you said that you had taken the amendments into account and that the text had evolved. We had tabled 27 interesting amendments – and we are going back to the plenary – and after a ten-minute consultation of the majority, you accepted one. It was still showing very little openness. In substance, we are faced with a text that clearly lacks ambition. It makes no sense to vote on a resolution to say to vote on a resolution, all the more so on such an important subject. The applications remain unclear, elements have been deliberately avoided; I am thinking in particular of the regulations concerning the availability of drinks in night-shops, gas stations and vending machines. I therefore agree, Mr Thiéry, with your remarks in committee. You said it was just a first step; I said it was a very small step in my opinion. The government – you have alluded to it – has announced the implementation of a comprehensive strategy to combat excessive alcohol consumption for next October. October is tomorrow. We will be extremely careful to ensure that this plan, Minister, does not deflate at the last minute, and this, once again, to the detriment of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, alcohol abuse. We all agree on one thing: alcohol abuse has an important social cost in terms of health care for individuals and society, but also in terms of work deprivation, nuisance, road fatalities, road deaths. Preventing alcohol abuse and, in the worst case, remedying it is therefore indeed a government mission. It is quite right that the resolution calls on all levels, communities and subordinate authorities to focus on the reduction of this health and social problem. Fighting addictions is hard. It is therefore essential that all governments convey this same message. It is important that public authorities make agreements so that the measures reinforce each other. That is why it is so important for the Minister today to agree with her colleagues from the Federal Government and with his colleagues from the Communities to arrive at a coherent set of measures. Three things are important in this resolution. Firstly, there is the ambition to prevent alcohol abuse. Learning to handle pleasures in a sensible way is a task of the Communities. It is one of the areas of prevention and awareness. The federal role in prevention lies in limiting supply and advertising of alcohol products. With this resolution, we are clearly asking for action in the field of advertising of alcoholic beverages. There is a covenant with the sector, but we have to admit that there is also dissatisfaction with the operation of the JEP. This resolution encourages the Minister to conduct an independent analysis of the current regime and of the functioning of the JEP in order to achieve a more efficient control system. We are working for the correct application of the sales ban to minors and we are calling for greater focus on controls. We will return to all the other proposals for measures aimed at tightening the sales ban on minors and limiting the number of outlets after the recess. A second element in the important fight against alcohol abuse is that it is a fight at all levels of policy: Flemish, federal, but also important, of local authorities. It is the local authorities who, by their knowledge of the field, know where to intervene. It is important if federal government continues to appeal to local authorities and remind them of what legal instruments they have to act on. The third ambition is to medically guide people with an addiction. At first we have to do something about the treatment gap that exists today. This means that we need to pay more attention to screening for alcohol abuse and short interventions and that we need to work on the continuity of treatment by extending the project "Oliviaison Alcohol' to several hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, we look forward with interest to the outcome of the negotiations by Minister De Block. We will have the debate on this in the autumn, and these recommendations will have to be taken into account clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, alcohol consumption is a widespread phenomenon in our society and is actually a bit inherent in our culture. The vast majority consume alcohol without any significant risk or damage, but alcohol can also be used in a risky and harmful way. The consequences are considerable for the person concerned, for his or her environment, but also for society. Because we would all know what this is about, so that it would not be dismissed as a matter of fact, I would like to give you a few figures. Alcohol consumption is the third most important cause of illness and premature death worldwide, after low birth weight and unprotected sexual contacts, for which alcohol is also an important risk factor. It's also for tobacco use. Alcohol is at the root of more than 200 diseases and injuries. I give a selection of a number of studies that have been carried out in recent years. It is noted, among other things, that highly educated women are everywhere making a so-called catch-up on men when it comes to problematic drinking behaviour. The problem of young people's use continues to peak in our country. In all western countries, alcohol consumption in children under 15 years of age will increase. Moreover, young people aged 15 to 24, especially young men, are an important risk group. Despite the slight general decline, problematic alcohol consumption is steadily increasing. In 2013, for example, in our country, 2 376 young people between 12 and 17 years of age ended up with a suspicion of alcohol intoxication at the emergency service or were hospitalized for one night. The social costs of alcohol abuse are very high. In 2008, public expenditure on the treatment of persons with alcohol problems in the hospital sector amounted to EUR 553 217 388. That's not bad. Now, what has happened in the past few years to a number of groups about increasing alcohol abuse? In 2008, the then Ministers responsible for Health signed a joint declaration on future alcohol consumption. In 2012, it was then considered that the declaration needed an update and an extension. After all, a policy on harmful alcohol consumption is not limited to health issues; it is also about the economy, publicity, price, mobility, education, employment and civil society, which have been mentioned here by my fellow Members. It is essential to pursue a global and integrated policy. The Joint Declaration of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Drugs of January 2010 therefore confirms the need for a global and integrated policy. That inter-ministerial conference later also took up the task of drawing up an alcohol plan 2014-2018. This plan was then to be seen as a complement to the initiatives and policies already under way by the various authorities in this area. However, due to disagreements in the then government majority, the draft was rejected in the Inter-Ministerial Conference and until today no further implementation of the mandate of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Drugs has been carried out. However, there are many reasons, apart from the figures I have already given, to do so. Belgium performs very badly in the field of measures to combat health damage in the event of excessive and problematic alcohol consumption. World Health Organisation figures show that Belgium is dwindling at the bottom of the European list of measures against alcohol abuse. Only Armenia, Georgia, San Marino and Andorra are doing worse. The VAD, the Association for Alcohol and Other Drug Problems, also states in a memorandum following the 2014 elections that a national alcohol plan is essential to address the complex and versatile alcohol problem. The FPS Public Health also advocated a new alcohol plan in 2014. A resolution of the European Parliament of 29 April 2015 also invites the Commission to work immediately on a new EU alcohol strategy for the period 2016-2022. With this I have outlined what this is about and how important the problem is. We do the right thing not to laugh away. I know you're working on a plan, Madam Secretary. For all the reasons mentioned and to support your upcoming plan, we have tabled a resolution calling on the government to honour the 2012 promise. Our resolution goes very widely and highlights all aspects of excessive alcohol consumption in our society. I am referring, among other things, to reducing the problem of alcohol consumption in general, tackling alcohol consumption at a young age, reducing binge drinking, clear labelling with standard units, measures to regulate advertising, clarifying the age limit in force, prohibiting the sale of alcohol in vending machines and the discouragement of sales via night shops and service stations, especially at night. There were also a number of health care measures and recommendations to pregnant women as well as a number of measures on alcohol in the workplace. The motion for a resolution tabled by the majority today goes a lot less far. It certainly contains some very good elements. We have also recognised this immediately. We believe that the problem of alcohol consumption should be addressed in as many areas as possible. Alcohol abuse intervenes in many areas of life and we believe that a broad scope is needed, with far-reaching measures. The proposal before us does not offer that! That is why we have tabled a number of amendments which define all the aspects I have just mentioned. For a moment we thought that the majority was now really serious when they agreed to examine our amendments. Unfortunately, we were disappointed once again. Except for a small detail, all our additions were rejected. That is why we are putting them before you again today. After all, we are convinced that our citizens deserve better than the faint, superficial text that is now before us. The younger, the pregnant woman, the addict, they really deserve attention and a real approach to the problem. We will not get there at all, Mr Thiéry, with the proposed mix-up in the margins.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been constructive in the committee. We voted in favour of your proposals, in the hope that we would see an opportunity to give the text a little more body, partly thanks to the input of our amendments which we will retable today. We tried together to come up with a strong statement and give a clear signal: tight regulation through better control. However, like Mr Jiroflée, we have had to experience that only our amendment on binge drinking among young people was accepted. That's a weakness offer, isn't it? My colleague has listed a number of facts, I am not going to repeat them all. The figures are clear, you have also quoted them, the amount for social costs, the number of young people who drink, the risk for men, the risk for women, it has been explicitly said here by everyone, and there is the cost of EUR 4.5 billion. So we actually agree on the facts, on the analysis and on the share of alcohol in health costs. The increases in excise duties that have been made so far are actually just a tissue for bleeding. These are facts and very worrying figures, which we must do something about. You know that we would have liked more drastic measures to be taken and that this would have been in that resolution. We regret that the texts that have been watered down, also because our amendments are only very limited or have not been taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, with only the extra controls promised by our Minister, we are not going to get there, even if they are good and even if they are aimed at schools and places where young people come and collect. It is good to also lay responsibility for organizers of parties, because they are mostly youth groups, and to sensitise them, so that young people do not get drunk or leave. But that is clearly not enough, this government must take responsibility and implement a real alcohol plan that tackles abuses rather than stiffen the State treasury with increased excise duties. We should not wait until the end of this year for a joint strategy on alcohol. We should not wait until next year for the analysis of measures on alcohol advertising, including an alcohol agreement. Nor should we wait for the priorities of the general drug policy cell to be implemented. As my colleague has already said, the need is high, the WHO figures show that Belgium is dwindling at the bottom of the European ranking. Only Armenia, Georgia, San Marino and Andorra are doing even worse in policy terms. We must therefore now take measures and tighten up the rules and controls on alcohol advertising. A resolution must have ambition. Unfortunately, she doesn't have enough. That is why our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing would be to be cold, I said at our first committee meeting on the Alcohol Plan. Indeed, we have the responsibility and the obligation to be ambitious in order to contribute to the reduction of harmful alcohol consumption. The findings in terms of mortality and morbidity as well as the health figures are particularly explicit. Similarly, the numbers of deaths and serious injuries on our roads as a result of drunk driving are eloquent. I will not repeat the statistics on the development of alcohol consumption nor will I recall the new patterns of consumption. If we share these observations, the same is true of all the measures and the way in which you decided to sink them in this motion for a resolution. Yeah, the worst part would be to be cold. However, this majority has decided to do so in this regard. Unlike us, you chose to be "choutist-goat." We wanted to be more ambitious in a whole series of themes. If I may, I will quote a few. Thus, we want to be much more ambitious in terms of advertising. You continue to praise self-regulation. But let's be honest, it has its limits! A drawing is better than a long speech. Remember the 24 hours bike of Louvain-la-Neuve in October 2014. Jupiler had conducted an advertising campaign using folders, coupons and slogans such as "Good points deserve good pints". We are here in the midst of non-compliance with this famous self-regulation. However, the Jury of Advertising Ethics considered that this was not a problem. It should be noted that the Arnoldus Convention provides inter alia for the prohibition of bragging about the positive effects of alcohol and of targeting young people. This is the perfect demonstration that convention and self-regulation have limits. The stakes are important. It should be recalled that the experts say and say again that alcohol is the first drug in Belgium and that it is unfortunately not, in many cases, considered to be such. We also wanted to be much more ambitious, and this is related to advertising, about sponsorship. Today, we continue to sponsor through alcohol, which is unacceptable. We wanted to be more ambitious at the point of sale. Do you find it normal that you can still buy alcohol on highway areas today? "Drinking or driving, you have to choose," says this famous prevention campaign. "Drink or drive, you have to choose" and, in practice, the stations along the motorways allow you to drive by drinking. We wanted to reduce the availability to night stores; I explained it to my colleague from the MR. Indeed, the law has loopholes which are exploited to circumvent existing legislation in practice, which prevents the municipalities from deciding on stronger measures which are nevertheless indispensable. We also wanted to reduce availability in vending machines. Finally, another example for which we would have wanted to be much more ambitious: binge drinking. Let us dare to tackle new consumption patterns! Binge drinking is often spoken of, but there is a new way of combining high-caffeine drinks with alcohol. The European scientific authority has recalled this: the mixture of energy drinks and alcohol gives an explosive cocktail that can be deadly, which the majority of citizens do not know. However, we have experienced deaths in young people. Madam Minister, you will, as always when you agree, return to Europe. It is true that discussions on this matter are under way and that other Member States have made progress. Pending regulation, which should be much more demanding, we could at least move forward on information that allows consumers to make a critical analysis based on accurate data on the amount of energy drink consumed and the explosive implications of cocktails combining alcohol and high-dose caffeine. That's why I proposed this device. Producers of energy drinks claim to recommend a maximum dose. But it only needs a 25 cl can to reach it! If you combine it with alcohol, it's obviously faster. Experts say that this makes the bed of problematic alcohol consumption. I had tabled this bill so that, pending European decisions, we could give a very clear warning. The information on the cans is partial and written in very small characters. While some have attempted to indicate the amount of caffeine in these beverages, many do not report the health risks associated with alcohol. In addition, there is no warning to target groups, such as young people and pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u95	Mrs Fonck, I have let you develop a number of examples that it was important to give. I would like to return to the Jury of Public Ethics (JEP) for 15 seconds. You cited the example of Louvain-la-Neuve, which is indeed a bad example in the absolute. However, I would like to point out that in 2015 the JEP handled 127 cases on the basis of 236 complaints. You gave one example on 127 files. Of the 127 cases dealt with, 68% of the cases were found by the JEP to have no comments to make. In 27.5% of cases, or 35 cases, the JEP was forced to make a decision to stop or modify, as the advertisements concerned were found to be in breach of the above-mentioned rules. What I mean is, of course, there will always be negative examples. You mentioned one that was. Besides this, the JEP is doing its work in terms of regulation. I had talked about the Arnoldus Convention in my speech. Some things can and must be reviewed and improved. But it cannot be said that the measures put in place so far are completely ineffective. I still wanted to report this to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u96	Excuse me, I continued earlier because I thought you wanted to talk about energy drinks again. I should have stopped earlier. As far as JEP is concerned, the main concern is that this Convention is also interpretable. It can be interpreted as desired. It is not incorporated into any legal and regulatory provisions that would be necessary, leaving no possibility of escape. It should also be noted that the cases you refer to are dealt with, following a complaint. But in the absence of a complaint, there is then a vacuum that allows, in some cases, to escape this self-regulation. A few years ago, the same debate took place on tobacco advertising. At some point, ladies and gentlemen, we will need a little audacity. "Five minutes of political courage", this can also apply to health. The impact is not negligible. We will have to be much braver than today when it comes to advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u97	Mrs. Fonck, I'll join you in your approach. That said, in the context of the proposed resolution, in points 6 and 7, but above all in point 7, the government is clearly called upon to give more information to the public and to provide for a system allowing the citizen to lodge a complaint against an advertisement for any drink containing alcohol. One step is clearly, as part of this approach to advertising and complaints, taken through the resolution of the
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u98	I also didn't want to interrupt and react, but, Mr. Thiéry, we are still in different registers. Inform the citizen that he or she can file a complaint: which citizens will you be able to file a complaint? Finally, the responsibility for doing things properly will rest with them. Another register is possible, as when it is said that alcohol advertising can only have negative impacts since alcohol use is a problem. I don't understand that you're being poached like that, to protect the interests of the alcoholics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u99	You know, as long as we don't go into legislation to control alcohol advertising, we won't move forward. In my view, this will not be enough and we will have to go further. This will require courage and a real debate on the place of advertising for products with proven toxicity. This toxicity is demonstrated in case of harmful consumption and it is not I, but the experts who say so. Mr Thiéry, should we refer you to the comments made by the various speakers, whether it is scientists, representatives of the universities, who have pitched on the subject, or the health actors who have communicated to us a series of positions on the subject? These positions were much less goat-choutist than yours today. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are not going to repeat the debate that took place here in committee. I would like to conclude by sending two or three messages. The first, you understand, is that this text is far too timid for us to support it. We will abstain. I will continue to lead this fight, as before. I have tabled in plenary a series of amendments to push this resolution further. I think I understand that the majority will not move. Behind your chilliness and your rubber goat, there is obviously the powerful alcohol lobby. I'm not the only one who says it. The experts themselves state this very clearly. Mr President, in view of these elements, I will allow myself to separate my texts from this motion for a resolution. In fact, the minister should still bring this project to fruition, if her party does not block this national alcohol plan as was the case under the previous legislature. In conclusion, I will leave the floor to the experts, many of whom have spoken. I will mention here Dr. Raymond Gueibe of the Saint-Pierre clinic in Ottignies, who is an alcoholic. This is what he says: "As long as drastic and clear measures are not taken at the political level, they will always be only measuring instruments." Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, these are the measures you have taken, and I am terribly sorry for those who will be directly affected, affected, ill, or even die from alcohol today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u100	We take note of the fact that you have decided to... uw voorstel uit de lijst te halen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u101	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, today we are dealing with an important subject, even though, socially, culturally, alcohol has a place associated with good mood, at the party, at a pleasant time that we are passing through. This is probably where the difficulty of working properly on this subject lies. Ecolo-Groen – and no one I think in this House – supports or defends the total ban on sales since we know that these are policies that lead to illegal consumption and that the opposite effect is achieved. That is why we do not take measures that are really regulation by policy, so that policy takes its responsibilities to avoid risks at the level of consumers, and especially the most vulnerable consumers, there is a margin. It must be acknowledged that this resolution is more than disappointing. It is more than disappointing because it does not allow the policy to assume its responsibilities and clearly identify the consequences of alcohol consumption that justify action. Excessive consumption, problematic consumption, is the primary target of the measures and policies to be pursued. But regular and daily drinking – 14% of the population over 15 years of age consumes alcohol every day – if it does not pose a societal problem, poses a health problem in cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes, etc. The interest in alcohol consumption and the interest in informing citizens about the consequences of such consumption are also important and should also be reflected in this resolution. It is also known that a percentage of people who regularly use alcohol are abused and problematic. The press reported an interesting figure this morning, according to which excise duty on alcohol contributes 1.5 billion to the state, while the negative consequences of its consumption cost 4.2. Therefore, we should not be afraid to invest in policies that will reduce this consumption, since we know that the financial profitability for the State will be as positive as the impact on the health of the population. What measures are not included in this motion for a resolution, but which should absolutely have been included in it? There was a need to include bold provisions in terms of limiting alcohol advertising. When used on a regular and worrying basis, it develops the effects of a drug. Of course, it is a drug that is culturally accepted in our society, but advertising alcohol is problematic. It is unimaginable that tobacco advertising is still allowed today. But for alcohol, it's normal. Not only is advertising broadcast directly through signs, posters and price reductions, but it's also good! – one uses the portrait of a young person or a young leader with a band that has fun around, so that the desire to consume is aroused just like the desire to follow the one who consumes. These are mechanisms that serve to increase consumption at risk, while we want to reduce it. The case of sponsorship has been mentioned earlier with the example of an advertisement aimed at young people, promising them a trip in which they will be able to consume to gogo and prices defying any competition. In addition, it has become customary to sponsor sporting events. I admit it's fun to have a good beer watching a game. However, is it normal, as we work on reducing alcohol consumption, that all football championships and other events are systematically sponsored by a beer producer? On 20 June, as parliamentarians, we received – probably in order to avoid our motion for a resolution being too harsh – an InBev newsletter covering all the events they sponsor. They explain to us that they have interesting policies to inform people about responsible consumption. That's good to say, but their job is also to produce and sell. I can't blame them. They also hold speeches saying that the Leffe awakens the senses. According to them, this is a good way to show us that they support local production and employment. Finally, they stress the fact that they make advertisements encouraging the use of the "Bob". It is not the role of an alcohol producer to carry out such advertising campaigns, with a reference to their brand, because it is an indirect way of encouraging consumption. As politicians, we sometimes participate in this advertising. Remember, in 2014 or 2015, on the occasion of Women's Day, the Secretary of State, Ms.Sleurs, and the Minister, Ms.Galant, invited us to drink a good beer. No doubt they wanted to insist that beer should not be associated only with men. But is this really a message to be sent by two federal government ministers to say: the thing to do, the symbolic action of Women's Day is to drink beer or alcohol? In advertisements or folders sent by InBeV, the Prime Minister plays golf with InBeV's manager. These messages are not consistent with a precautionary, preventive and voluntary policy to reduce alcohol consumption. With regard to the convention, the agreements reached and self-regulation, I think that this mechanism has shown its limits not only in view of the examples I have just mentioned, but also because, as long as the producer is allowed to play a role of limiting consumption, there can only be inconsistencies. In fact, as the Convention's partner is a producer and distributor of alcohol, it must find its interest. The political actor will therefore refuse to use the gates and tools at his disposal. Let's stop this circus! If we want to reduce consumption, we must take measures, legalize, say what is allowed and what is not, thereby limiting the opportunities and opportunities for problematic consumption. Among these consumption restrictions, it is regrettable that the text does not include the absence of a sale of alcohol in shops along motorways. Here too, it is important to have a coherent discourse. If you say you don't drink while driving, then you don't sell beer in a store along the road. I'm sure people who need a bottle at some point, if they know they can't buy it along the highway, take their precautions and go buy it elsewhere, during the opening hours of the shops. Let's stop saying that everyone has to be able to buy a bottle of alcohol every time he wants to! The message we want to send must be consistent and clear. The same is true of course if we want to avoid rapid and intense consumption at certain times in certain neighbourhoods. It is necessary to be able to act on the restriction of the sale of beverages and their access to night shops and distributors. In shops there must be clear respect for the clear separation between alcoholic and soft drinks, and especially sweet drinks with a low alcohol content, as alcoholists are baiting young people from an early age. Missing elements of this resolution include labelling information or focus on target audiences. I do not understand, Mr Thiéry, the absolute will that you have shown never to say that target audiences require specific measures. You say you don't want to stigmatize certain categories of the population. It is not a question of stigmatizing; it is a question, as politicians, as parliamentarians, in the message we give to our Minister of Health, our Minister of the Economy or our Minister of the federated entities, of saying that they must take action concerning the whole population but taking into account more fragile populations such as young people or pregnant women, in terms of information and measures. This aspect is absent and has been removed from the resolution. It was rejected by the rejection of the amendments we tabled concerning the final text. In other words, obviously, as Anne Dedry has already said, our group will abstain. It was time to have a text, even minimalist, that would allow Parliament to send a message to our minister for his work with the federated entities, but also in federal jurisdiction, but all the shortcomings I have just mentioned prevent us from supporting him. They reflect a lack of ambition and belief in the power of political actors in the face of economic actors who, it is true, create jobs and activity, but can also change their name and sell other products if alcohol consumption ever decreases. The work in committee missed this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u102	Mr President, I shall be brief. I would like to thank the members of the Health Committee for this resolution. This has put the subject of problematic alcohol consumption back on the agenda of this plenary session. Tackling the problem of alcohol consumption is certainly necessary in our country, because its harmful effects on health and society are very serious. As my representative said at the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health, the General Drug Unit has identified this issue as a priority. A working group has been set up. It includes representatives of the Ministers responsible for Mobility, Labour, Public Health and the competent ministers of the federated entities. As has been said several times during the committee's questions, the intention is to propose a comprehensive strategy on problematic alcohol consumption by October 2016. All aspects of the proposals are part of the ongoing discussions, as are the supporting studies of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre. Particular attention is also paid to mental health care and emergency services. So this problem is really taken seriously by the health services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u103	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u104	Ingediende amendmenten: Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u105	Point/Question 3 • 30 years old Catherine Fonck (406/8) Point/Question 4 • 31 – Catherine Fonck (406/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u106	• 47 – Karin Jiroflée cs (406/9) Point/Question 5 • 32 years old Catherine Fonck (406/8) Point/Question 6 • 32 – Catherine Fonck (406/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u107	• 48 – Karin Jiroflée cs (406/9) Point/Question 7 • 32 – Catherine Fonck (406/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u108	Point/Question 9 • 31 – Catherine Fonck (406/8) Point/Question 10 • 33 years old Catherine Fonck (406/8) • 54 – Karin Jiroflée cs (406/9) Point/Question 10/1(n) • 34 • Catherine Fonck (406/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u109	Point/Question 10/3(n) • 38 – Catherine Fonck (406/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u110	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u111	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u112	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u113	Mr President, since I am very convinced that my very esteemed colleagues will wish to repeat their speeches here in committee, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u114	Mr President, since I want to go home tonight, I am saying the same thing as my colleague. Otherwise, we'll still be here in the morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u115	The assembly thanks you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me begin by congratulating you on this draft, with which you make a very important point for us in the government agreement, in particular a contract tailored to every new living wage client, with the possibility of including community service as a requirement and with attention to supporting the OCMW in implementing it. With this, this government is taking an important step towards better guidance for all OCMW clients. Until now, such a contract has only been applicable to minus 25-year-olds, but that is changing now. Thanks to this expansion, our OCMWFs can work even more tailor-made and thus encourage their clients to become more self-reliant, work and integration into society, which is certainly a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear on one matter. There is a chance that you will hear other things or points of view later. Devoting to accountability, making the most of every human being, and aiming to integrate as much as possible into our society, these are anything but antisocial objectives. More than that, it's nothing less than our duty. It's the duty of every OCMW. That's what this design is all about. We must not let go of those for whom the lead to work is an unfeasible card. In the margin mentioned, therefore, this government is working on two tracks and, apart from job creation, is also focusing on a step-by-step increase in living wages, this year alone up to about 800 euros per year more for a head of the household and 600 euros for a single person. The step-by-step increase in living wages towards the European poverty line was prominent in the N-VA election programme. We are not here today, but despite the difficult budgetary times we have already taken important steps in this area, and I cannot help but point out that, unlike the previous government. That government was made up of other political parties which liked to announce it, but which did very little about it during the previous legislature, which has made the gap that the current government has to bridge very large. By the way, although it proves that the current government is working on a broad framework and not on certain fetishes blindtails, as some would like to say. I'm coming back to the present design. Colleagues, only two weeks ago a study showed that in Wallonia one child in five grows up in a family without work. In Brussels, this ratio is one in four and in Flanders one in fifteen. Those are numbers that make you think, whether they should be. Never before was the danger of generation poverty so great. It is therefore more than ever the time to be ambitious in the guidance of the OCMWs. That's what this design is all about. In fact, the GPMI is a contract with the OCMW that allows for tailor-made guidance and follow-up of life labourers, but that also responds to their social and professional reintegration. The GPMI means that conditions are attached to the living wage, conditions that bind the OMCW and the client and involve mutual obligations, but above all create a framework for a better future, a framework that nobody lets go of. The aim of guidance is to take steps through clear actions, so that the client gradually becomes more independent and can fully participate in society. It is a contract with rights and obligations, but it serves only one purpose: to closely guide the client towards the best possible integration. It is certain that this will require additional efforts from the OCMWs, especially in a first phase. It is therefore essential that this government and the Minister take this into account and that this is also taken into account in the allocation. The federal government will, for the duration of the GPMI, give up to one year an increase in the reimbursement rate of the living wage by 10%. It's necessary. Every OCMW knows that. It's a good thing it happens right away. It has been said before, activation is and remains the best lever to break the vicious circle of poverty. With the expansion of the GPMI, we make it possible to actively guide the OCMW beneficiaries on a large scale towards independence, self-reliance and social integration. The ultimate objective remains, if possible, the integration into the labour market. That is why, Minister, we welcome the fact that you have made the Community service possible in this draft. One of the most important conditions for getting a living wage is to demonstrate the willingness to work. It is therefore a good thing that this government recognises the community service as one of the opportunities for a client to demonstrate his willingness to work. That who can, must contribute, is not a hollow slogan that no one else serves. It is essential for the survival of a system that we all support. Moreover, it is an instrument that primarily benefits the client himself. It is not possible for everyone to move directly towards the labour market. Even social employment can be a step too far for some living-wage clients. There are many reasons and situations where community service can be used as a road to integration and employment. It is therefore important that this Community service should focus on future paid employment and not hinder the availability of the labour market. By making this possible, the OCMW will be given a new tool to activate and reintegrate their clients into the labour market. The Community service is based on a voluntary basis, which is very clear in the draft, but it is equally clear that once the commitment has been taken, respect for it has become mandatory. That is good, because when agreements are made, they must also be clear. If one is eligible, but one does not choose, the willingness to work will of course have to be demonstrated in other ways. Some fellow Members will undoubtedly immediately try to frame this new instrument as a bullying measure. I've heard that in committee, I'm guessing, about 176 times. Let me be clear, it is by no means. For those who are still unachievable in social employment, community service can help to strengthen self-esteem, expand social contacts and move towards the labour market. People in poverty often have a very limited social fabric. Poverty and isolation go, unfortunately, often hand in hand. Activation to work or social activation is about creating opportunities, improving social skills and contacts, and that's what it's all about. That's got to be the target. It is a story of rights and obligations, taking into account, as far as possible, the competences and interests of the clients, with tailor-made work absolutely possible. Community tasks are therefore not a punishment, but a method of working to gain experience. It can strengthen the trust of the person concerned and help against social isolation. This should certainly not replace regular work, but for the clients for whom a step to the labour market will always be too high, it can be a permanent tool for breaking social isolation and contributing to this society. It is therefore no secret, ladies and gentlemen, that our group is clearly in favour of extending the GPMI pathway, and we therefore hope that work will be carried out as soon as possible on the KB, which determines the minimum conditions and modalities to be met by these GPMI contracts. Of course, it doesn't stop here. We will have to ensure that the GPMI, in its new form, will not become a mere administrative increase for the services of the OCMW, or worse still, and that was the fear that I will be treated by some OCMW as an administrative obligation during the Commission's discussion. The fact that an OCMW can work tailored to the client is without doubt the strength of an OCMW. One should not confuse bespoke work with work in a completely different way. It is important that a client, wherever he lives or at which OCMW he knocks, has certainty about what he can expect. That is why I think it is important that the modalities of this GPMI are worked out very clearly and comprehensively. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the fairness that OCMW's will be able to invoke in order not to draw up a GPMI. For very exceptional cases, Minister, that must indeed be possible, but we must be careful, and I shall certainly do so in committee if it is to remain exceptional. A GPMI can in principle address all profiles of clients with a living wage. The living wage can be an opportunity for a lot of people. It can also be an instrument for systematically working with them. Also for those who are not eligible for a job, a GPMI can help in the guidance to a training or to focus on the broadest possible social integration. For example, I do not hope that, as is often the case today when it comes to demonstrating willingness to work, some OCMWs will consistently invoke fairness reasons, for example among clients with an addiction. I hope that the same kind of fairness will not be invoked for the GPMI, because nothing is more antisocial than to let go of those people and expect nothing more from them. Just as for that group, I believe that the GPMI can be a very useful tool to guide them more towards a treatment rather than simply calming them down with benefits without much hope. In other words, no GPMI for a client should be the exception and not the rule. What we have before us is the absolute support of our group and we hope that the figures of the number of children growing up in a family without work, with which I have started, will greatly improve in the future, so that we can help break the negative spiral of generation poverty, because that is progress, that is the change that we need and that is what I believe is social justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not begin by recalling a fundamental element in the matter of the right to social integration (DIS). Social integration income (RIS) is the last social safety net, the last safety net in our country. In our social model, the one that still exists today, this net prevents people from falling into poverty. And if, today, all international organisations and studies establish that Belgium has a relatively large number of poor people but few in extreme poverty, it is precisely because of this net. And if there was resistance in the economic crises that we are experiencing, especially in 2008, it is thanks to the RIS. It is this fundamental element that must guide our thinking when we want to touch DIS in any way. I would like to reiterate that, for the PS Group, this right must remain an unconditional right, in the name of respect for human dignity. Today, this project is brutally affecting the law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration – I appreciate that its author is now in the room. This draft makes this fundamental right a highly conditioned right subject to scrutiny. I will come back later to one element of the preparatory work. Even if sanctions existed in the 2002 Act, it seems to me that this project is in line with a systematization of sanctions. The associations for the defence of the social beneficiaries, the associations for the fight against poverty, the federations of CPAS, whether in Flanders, Wallonia, Brussels, the authors of the study that you yourself, Minister, commissioned to the SPP Social Integration, all have denounced in their own way sometimes virulent the reform that you are submitting to us today. And, it seems to me, they are absolutely right to do so. In committee, in the course of the debates, we hoped that answers would be given to their questions and concerns. It should be noted that discussions with the CPAS federations continued in parallel, as we mentioned in committee. However, apart from a few small, appreciable clarifications, I recognize that, but not translated into law, you have not accepted any openings or amendments. You will therefore understand that my group cannot change its position on this project. Minister, saying that you want to generalize the Individualized Plan for Social Integration (PIIS), because activation is the best lever to get out of poverty is completely wrong. No, investing only in activation is not the solution, because you know very well that it will be impossible or even ineffective in certain categories of people. You say that you have taken this reform to allow more solidarity, accountability and positive activation of beneficiaries. But I continue to think that beyond these fine words held at the press conference and then in committee, what you simply want is to show that these people do not deserve the help we must give them. Don't make me say what I didn't say! Yes, we are in favour of activation when possible. Yes, we support the use of ISIP, including for those over 25 years of age, where possible. For yes, in some cases it must be possible to extend it. From there to generalizing it, making it compulsory for all beneficiaries, there is a step that we will not take. I would like to remind you that, in your general policy note that you have come to present in the House's Public Health Committee, you were only talking about expanding the use of ISIP. In this respect, despite the questions in committee, I still do not know who changed your mind. I'm not saying "why you changed your mind," but rather, "who made you change your mind." As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, this government continues to ignore what poverty really is. This is multi-dimensional, multi-factorial. Its consequences on the person may be of various kinds. No, a poor person is not just a person who doesn't want to work. No, a person who benefits from social integration income is not just a person who is complacent in his or her situation. Most often, it is a person who cannot work, a person who is under the influence of drugs or alcohol, a person who suffers from depression, or who is illiterate, or who is inactive because he or she has not found a job. Very often, a person in poverty cumulates these factors of fragility. Contractualizing its relationship with the CPAS by conditioning its income from integration to a series of obligations in order to allow, as you say, "its activation", is not the solution adapted to many of these people and their real needs. It is our duty to take this into account so as not to leave anyone at the edge of the road. But that is clearly not your ambition, contrary to what you claimed in your declaration of government. As a reminder, you announced your intention to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020 – four years left – as foreseen in the National Reform Programme at the European Commission. This number must, as you know, be revised upwards since then. The measures you are taking with your government colleagues, week after week, clearly show that you are not making the fight against poverty a priority. The only thing you do is make the poor guilty of being poor. In that regard, the Government's plan to combat poverty was still pending. Your project to extend PIIS and its mode of sanction is in line with what I have just described, namely, to humiliate people who are already in precarious situations. Through this one, you simply oppose indifference to social distress. Hitting the door of a CPAS is not an easy act. Thinking and inducing the idea in the population that those who do it end up complacency in this situation is indefensible. Do you really think they can appreciate their situation and make no effort to get out of it? You know the amounts, but I will allow myself to remind them. Today, social integration income amounts to 566.92 euros per month for a cohabitant, 850.39 euros for an isolated person and 1 133.85 euros for a person with a dependent family. Do you really believe that these people, in the light of these elements, are complacent in their situation? Recent efforts have been made to increase social integration income, I recognize. An increase has been made, an effort has been made, I believe, in the continuity of the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u118	Mr Massin, I would point out that since June, the figures you have given have changed again, since they are no longer 566 euros but 578 euros for the cohabitant, 867 euros for an isolated person and 1 156 euros for the head of the family. I'll let you talk. I keep a number of elements for my intervention. However, I would point out that integration income has increased by 6% in less than a year, which is a plus. When I look at the difference between 1 September 2013 and June 2016, for a cohabitant, we are more than 400 euros per year, for a single person at more than 600 euros per year and for a head of household at more than 800 euros per year. When we give figures – and we discussed them in committee – it is also interesting to give them in their entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u119	I would remind Mr Thiéry that something important is always forgotten throughout this discussion. Steps have been taken forward, no one can oppose it, quite the contrary. However, it is always forgotten that the poverty line itself is moving up. If you want to be honest, this must be taken into account at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u120	You know, we can discuss a few extra euros, but there's still evidence: the RIS amounts are low. Living with such amounts, whether you are a single person or a head of household, is extremely difficult. Because these amounts are so low and because the beneficiaries of the CPAS live with a last social net, we are in favour of them being able to receive support to get out of these precarious situations and to return to the path of full social reintegration and professional reintegration. Let us recognize that having a job and a salary worthy of this name, in comparison with the amounts we have just mentioned, is the best airbag possible to allow individuals to live in dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u121	Mr President, I want to speak on this figure of 6% which the majority regularly repeats to us. In this 6%, there is a 2% increase in the Pivot Index. This is not an increase in income, but simply an adjustment to the cost of living. It is also necessary to remove 2% of index jump, of non-adaptation to the evolution of prices. There is still 2% of this 6%, with which all increases in VAT, indirect taxes, electricity, etc. must be paid. So your 6% becomes 2%, which in my opinion finally becomes less than zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u122	That is completely incorrect; I do not even want to take it completely down. It's up 6%. You say it skipped indexation, that's not true. The index jump was not taken just before the benefits and 2 % was added. Since the poverty threshold is calculated on the median income, this is indeed an increase of 6%. This is a draft on the GPMI. This government is doing more than expanding the GPMI and I am glad that you want to put all this back in the picture. Mr Massin brought it in first. What I know in particular is that during the Di Rupo administration, your party, Mr Massin, there was a 0 percent increase. Now talking about a gap that you yourself have created all these years and now shooting at a government that is finally doing something about it is very doubtful. Let's talk about the GPMI. You're OCMW chairman yourself. It is very close to my heart that as OCMW chairman, you continue to describe the GPMI as a punishment, while it is just a way to help a client, to guide him tailor-made. As a result, we get this kind of figure that grows up in Wallonia one in five in families without work and that it is still too much in Flanders, but only 1 in 15. That is because of such a mentality. I would like you to deal with this first of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u123	I was wondering if I really had a question. Everyone goes with their little comment and I hear it well. Mr Thiéry, I have not entered this debate. I even acknowledged that the government had made an effort; I said that it was continuity with what had been done under the previous government, in which you were also involved, by the way. When you get into this debate, you let it be said that you have made enormous efforts and that these people would be ill-advised to come complain, you forget that you have increased VAT on electricity from 6 to 21 % and that these people still have to warm up and light up. This 6% increase is largely "puffed" by all the indirect tax increases you've made. We must also look at reality in the face. You'll allow me to say that your speech falls a little flat. We are talking about the beneficiaries of RIS as part of an ISIP. The fact that they are required to contract their relationship with the CPAS and to condition the aid provided to this contract is incomprehensible when one knows the reality of the field. I am president of CPAS and I know the reality on the ground, especially when we see the untenable situation of those people who are in poverty. Signing a contract, that's what this is about, normally assumes that each of the parties can negotiate the terms of the contract. But those people who knock on the doors of the CPAS and who are in the situations that I have explained to you before, with many problems, are not in a position to negotiate the contract that will be imposed on them. That is what the authors of the study that you commissioned from the PPS Social Integration said. They believe that there is a lack of balance in the bargaining power between the user and the CPAS and that nothing in the project is in the direction of a rebalancing. Do you know what this kind of contract is called? A leonin pact. However, the Léonin Pact is normally prohibited by the Civil Code. What about a sanction for non-compliance? As the contract has become mandatory, there will be a sanction. You will certainly tell me that it can be modulated, which was not the case before. You allow this modulation but sanction, there will be. It can be truly dramatic for these people, and that is not how you will lift them out of poverty or reintegrate them into society. On the contrary, the only thing you will be able to do is to strengthen their dependence by controlling them more and more. These sanctions will undoubtedly tend to become mandatory in the future. But you know as well as I do that there are totally different practices between CPAS. There is no uniformity. It's not easy, but try for a moment to imagine a vulnerable person in poverty, to whom you are withdrawing even a month from his or her integration income. What do you think will happen to her? What will happen to his family? She will live under the bridges and resort to begging. Reducing it to this state of total misery is unacceptable. One of the authors of the study...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u124	This passage on sanctions in today's text is the same as your political party approved. Prior to the Act, this chapter on sanctions existed. Sanctions have not been increased. You have approved the text in its current version. Don't be critical of it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u125	Minister, you are extraordinary. You're making pirouettes. You look beautiful. With your sweet air, you're making pirouettes like that. I'm telling you that CPAS will fall into arbitrariness with respect to these sanctions. It already exists. It is pointed out in the context of the study. You will further strengthen this possibility with particularly harsh sanctions. By making ISIP compulsory and not optional and removing a month of income from integration to these people, you will reduce them to the greatest misery. And it is actually mandatory today for people under 25 years of age. One of the authors of the study commissioned by the SPP Social Integration said in this regard that a possible extension of PIIS for the purpose of social activation must be independent or decoupled from the income of integration and the possibility of financial sanctions that would be ethically untenable and counterproductive. Even that, you didn't. I'm going on. The study states that if SIIP becomes a condition for the granting of integration income - which will be the case - it risks becoming an instrument for precarisation and exclusion of what constitutes, in our system, the last social security net. As Mrs Fonck said, people in poverty need not only financial resources, but also listening and accompaniment. Your conception of things is very far from it. This additional obligation will only increase the non-use of the law, which is already so important in terms of access to social assistance. Thinking that activation is the best lever to fight poverty is a chimera. It's an important lever, but it's not the only one. Nor is it the first to be used in some cases. Listen to the social workers! They're here to explain it to you. They did it through the study. I would also like to remind you of the preparatory work for the 2002 Act; in particular, the explanatory memorandum in section 11, which states that the individual's participation in the individualized project is a prerequisite for the success of the process. There will be no membership here because the person will have no choice. In addition, when the person is not ready to enter a process of occupational integration, the project may - optionally - define the modalities for the social integration of the person, in order to gradually promote his or her active participation in society. Resocialization activities are sometimes necessary to get people out of isolation before they can start a process leading to employment. Within the CPAS or in partnership with the voluntary sector, different initiatives can be developed to enable people to regain confidence in their abilities: dialogue groups, collective social activities, etc. On my own initiative, I insist, the person can also carry out voluntary activities without hindering his integration process. It is these principles that constitute the very philosophy of PIIS, which, in our view, cannot be misled. In addition, in a context where social inequalities are increasing and the labour market is difficult to access, it is an aberration to suggest that the person seeking employment can only find it and, therefore, that the person who does not find it deserves to be punished. As discussed in this explanatory memorandum, I turn to the community service that you include in your project, which is a very broad concept and, at the very least, imprecise in the definition you give it. We can, and I do, recognize the interest of social assistance recipients in participating in certain voluntary activities in terms of socialization, self-confidence or recognition. However, it seems to me inconceivable and unacceptable to force them to do what I call "mandatory work". The quantitative survey and the qualitative research of the study that you have commissioned have, moreover, highlighted the scepticism, reservations or even frank opposition of a majority of respondents and interlocutors, be it CPAS, social workers or beneficiaries themselves. Respondents and experts stressed "the need to ensure the free and voluntary participation in voluntary activities, the need to act in accordance with the legal frameworks for volunteering, on the one hand, and employment, on the other", including Article 60. One expert also referred to the risk of contradicting international conventions prohibiting forced labour and stressed the heavy demands in terms of organizing, accompanying and guiding such voluntary activities so that they would provide benefits for the social integration of those concerned. You will reply: 'Community service will be provided, in any case, only on a voluntary basis', as you said during our discussions in committee. However, by integrating it into the ISIP, you give it a completely different character, that of paid work – since it is based on a contract – unpaid and compulsory, since it becomes so from the moment it is part of the ISIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u126	In addition, you link the arrangement to the work and the community service by making it a form of ISIP in itself. As you said in committee, the legal framework you set for this Community service would be linked to the legislation on volunteering. This will therefore be included in the preparatory work. But I still don't understand why you didn't clearly mention it in the text. You could have specified that this would be included in the royal decree in preparation. Unfortunately, we have not been able to have a discussion on the content of the latter, although it would seem to me to be closely linked to the text before us today. That said, you make this community service the flagship element of social integration, bringing together other fundamental elements such as employment, training or education in the background. You therefore make an unacceptable link between the availability of unemployed people for employment and the availability of RIS beneficiaries for employment, whereas the two situations are not comparable. The mission of the CPAS is quite different. It consists in enabling everyone to lead a life in accordance with human dignity. Not taking this specificity into account proves that we do not have the same company project. In your view, this community service will contribute to the integration of the individual into society and enable its activation into the labour market. I advise you, as I advised your colleague Mr. Peeters, to read the KUL study on mandatory community service, which shows the opposite. In particular, the authors of this study noted, on the basis of experience from two other countries, that jobseekers included in such a programme have, after two years, the same probability of obtaining a job as those who are not. Therefore, it seems to me that such a project does not offer a real chance of socio-professional reintegration. You also talk about the personal development of the interested parties. I recognize that in some cases this will be the case, but not in others. You create a clear balance of power between the beneficiary of social integration income and the CPAS, such that the beneficiary will never dare to oppose the work requested of him. Why? Because if he opposes it, he'll lose his integration income. When you fight for your survival, you're willing to accept anything. And, I repeat, the practices and interpretations of CPAS differ. This is noted by the study you commissioned from the Social Integration PPS. It's the door open to arbitrariness. I'll come back. In fact, what you are doing is asking people to exercise, even a few hours a week, as you say, an activity, a job, free of charge, without the possibility of forming social rights, and simply making them more and more dependent on them to be able to benefit from their income from integration. I do not think that is the solution. The solution also appears in the government declaration: job creation for people who are able to work. You're gonna tell me you're working on it, too. Attention, through the establishment of this community service, you trivialize the lack of jobs and, I believe, the inability to create enough jobs. Contrary to what you explain, with the community service, you do not bring social assistance recipients closer to the labour market. The only thing that happens in this area is to prove that they deserve the situation in which they are, and that they absolutely must deserve the help they need. Yes, you have the income of social integration, you have to earn it by going to work, even without having anything more, without having a social right or anything. It's pointing at them again. Finally, I want to tell you that your project is simply questioning the essential work that social workers do on a daily basis, and in often very difficult conditions. In each case, in each situation, it is they who are trying to find the solutions that best match the people who come knocking on the door of the CPAS. As you know – the study by Abraham Franssen and Kristel Driessen shows – some CPAS have not waited for your project to expand the ISP to other users than beneficiaries under the age of 25. More than half of the 234 CPAS surveyed already require individualised plans for social integration at the age of 25. Of course, it is an interesting tool, it is one of the modalities that can be put in place but not the only one. The only difference with your project is that the ISIP is decided by the person the social worker is facing. While tomorrow it will become mandatory without allowing these people in the field to judge what is most suitable. To impose this ISIP, as you wish, is to take the risk of making it lose its value in a number of cases, in favour of a certain formalism and thus to diminish the chances of a better integration of the beneficiary into society. We would be the opposite of the objective you say you are pursuing. You know that there will be formalism because, given the number of people to meet and the number of documents to be drawn up, there will be no other choice. As far as arbitrariness is concerned, if sanctions remain marginal, you know that some CPAS use them. The study talks about it. It is to be feared that this is really the door open to arbitrariness, since sanctions will depend purely and simply on the CPAS, when we are in a regime of assistance after which there is nothing at all. Putting this possibility of arbitrariness at the heart of the system is damaging. I want to make it clear, it's a real step backwards! Prior to the CPAS, these were public assistance commissions and there was arbitrariness. CPAS were created to manage and limit arbitrariness through the introduction of rules. This is what Professor Franssen says, who believes that by moving from the Caisse d'assistance publique de la commune to the CPAS, by enshrining the right to dignity, the law, the right of people, the right of the poor had been advanced. It's not shameful to talk about a poor man. Here, with PIIS, discretion comes back, says Professor Franssen. One is more in the symbolic treatment of the included than in the accompaniment of the excluded. You are completely changing the economy of the law and its philosophy while it is the fortieth anniversary of the law on public centres of social action. We've just made a 40-year leap back and we're back in the public assistance funds. The Walloon Federation of Social Workers of CPAS does not say anything else. This is reflected in the report: "the reintroduction of a local and subjective assessment of the right to social integration". That's what we're doing. In the leadership of some CPAS, it will be a reality. This is also included in your study. Another element which I think is important to highlight in the study of the Social Integration PPS, and next to which we have completely passed, concerns the implementation of this generalised ISP. According to the study, this generalisation would be relevant only under four conditions: 1. "ISIP must be a project adapted to the situation of the beneficiary, negotiated with him and adapted to the evolution of his situation." Maybe it's possible. 2. "It must be implemented in good professional conditions by a social worker who has the necessary techniques and time." I don't think that's the reality. 3. "It must be structured around a 360-degree offer of services (social participation, therapeutic support, training), provided that the provision at work is not interpreted solely from the perspective of activation and occupational integration, in order to take into account the most vulnerable users." That, in my opinion, we're going to miss. 4. "It must be integrated into the procedures and tools of the CPAS so that it represents a less burdensome administrative burden." I also think we're gonna miss it. These conditions are not met! They are not included in your project. Nothing! You do not take into account the work done by your experts or the opinion of your own experts. We have a project based on criteria that are not realistic, that are also not adapted to the realities of the CPAS and that seem more and more unfeasible in an effective way for the majority of them. In addition, when the sanctioned individuals find themselves in a state of need, the CPAS will be obliged to continue to assist them, but without intervention by the federal government, on its own funds. This is known as a transfer of expenses from the federal government to the CPAS, when they are already exsangued and continue to demand increases in federal intervention. This funding, which is provided for in the extension of the PIIS, is a demand of the CPAS to have sufficient funding to ensure qualitative and tailor-made accompaniment of their users. For those over 25 years of age, integration is more complex and employment efforts are less successful. It must therefore be taken into account. You have planned a 10% increase in the grant at the time of the conclusion of any new ISIP, but over one year, which can be extended to two years. Yet an ISIP can be set up over several years, even though there are a relatively large number of people who come to the CPAS and who fortunately, thanks to the work that has been done, are leaving. But there are also people who return, because their situation has changed, or has deteriorated again, for whatever reason, or people who remain there for a number of years. On the other hand, all this can be reviewed in the light of the development of the beneficiary's situation. The three CPAS federations – Flemish, Brussels and Walloon – told you: funding is insufficient to allow quality work adapted to the beneficiaries. We therefore tabled, and we were not alone, an amendment to clearly link the obligation to conclude ISIP to the duration of the planned funding. As usual, all the amendments tabled, even if they were constructive, were rejected. Beyond that, you also plan the retroactivity of the measure, i.e. the conclusion of a SIIP for all persons benefiting from the RIS for whom the condition of granting the RIS has been met during the six months preceding the coming into force of the law. The CPAS will have 12 months to implement these ISIPs. I believe that even before this measure was taken, an assessment of the burden on this retroactive measure would have had to be put in place. As you know, many CPAS, and I have quoted non-financial figures, but figures for the increase of RIS beneficiaries in Charleroi, have seen a significant increase in the number of their beneficiaries in recent months. CPAS will find themselves in a particularly difficult situation if they are to apply this retroactive measure. On the other hand, while the federations believed they had an agreement with you that the entry into force would be on January 1, 2017, you refused to include this black on white in the legislation. Even today, minister, through this bill, we have the most unpleasant impression that, although you said and said the opposite, you have not listened to anyone: the field, the social workers, the CPAS, the CPAS or anti-poverty associations, the administration, the academics, or your experts! As usual, this government decides on its own and takes no one's opinion into account. While everyone asked you to measure what poverty means, that is not what you have done to date with your project. You have not listened to the social workers and the CPAS who, to the end, have been constructive, made proposals, tried to fit in with your logic and tried to improve things. Yet they are best able to understand and develop tools and techniques to truly help all those in need. Despite the cries of each other, you persist in purely ideological choices, choices that we do not share in any way. Our objectives diverge in many ways. We want to continue to make social integration income an unconditional right. We want to make effective activation by allowing people who can access high-quality and adequately remunerated jobs. We do not punish poverty. We fight poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u127	Mr. President, thank you. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of what I have just heard in this rostrum, there has also been an opportunity to read a great deal in the press lately. I quote a few because we sometimes wonder if we are defending the same interests. We have chosen "the path of humiliation and indifference", "the RIS is an unconditional right", "it is forced labour", "an instrument of precarisation and exclusion", "a coercive tool", and I am not talking about the flabbus to which we have been entitled for several hours in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u128	Mr. Thiéry, you're accusing me of being a flabbus. I remind you that I am the only one who has offered to attach a report and bring in its authors so that they can answer our questions. I said that if you refused this proposal, which could be implemented quickly, I would have no choice but to comment on the report. If you call it a fliberous one, I consider your attitude to be that of the rejection of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u129	We have already had this discussion in committee and, indeed, the consultation had already taken place; having understood your willingness to delay the project with further hearings, I felt that your proposal was not necessary. On the basis of all that has been said, we must return to the agreement of the government, which, in its chapter on social protection and the fight against poverty, said: the federal government will provide local authorities, by means of an annotation of the regulations, with new means of social and societal integration enabling them to organize within the ISIPs, a community service for beneficiaries of integration income. And I would add: the recipient's initiative will be respected to the maximum, with the aim of achieving progressive social and/or professional reintegration. In this way, social cohesion is strengthened, opportunities are created and social skills developed. I sincerely believe that this objective is being achieved with this project, minister. For the government, the individualised social integration programme is primarily a comprehensive accompanying project. It is tailor-made and provides a contractual support framework in which the mutual expectations, agreements and commitments of each of the parties will be noted. It is therefore absolutely not a tool of control or repression. Personally, I consider that it is in this sense that it has been conceived and must be perceived. It is a way to empower the beneficiaries of the CPAS, to activate them and to give them more autonomy, in short to help them become again actors of their own lives so that they no longer have to undergo it. So, in a way, it is a springboard to a new existence. Of course, ISIP is a contract. When it comes to contracts, there are rights, but there are also duties incumbent on both parties: on the one hand, the CPAS, which undertakes to help the person, to provide him with the necessary tools or contacts, to accompany him in his steps and, on the other hand, the beneficiary who undertakes to take steps to integrate into society such as seeking work, taking training, carrying out an internship and, sometimes, simply finding housing. In this, the measure is primarily social, because – I like to emphasise what I said in committee – activation is the best lever to break the vicious circle of poverty, even if I have heard something else in this forum. The ISIP that the government is proposing to us today is absolutely not new. As Mr. Massin recalled earlier, a first step had been taken in 2002. The author of this initiative was, moreover, present in the room. At that time, no one criticized the project on the grounds that it was forced labour or an instrument of precarisation or exclusion. So far, we have had no criticism. This program was specifically targeted at young people under 25 years of age, but it must be noted that it has proven its worth. That is why some Dutch-speaking colleagues have reminded the committee that in Flanders, several CPAS have already used PIIS, without being forced to do so and without any additional subsidies. Once again, it was recalled that the programme is an effective tool for young people and the elderly, since it was already happening in Flanders. Therefore, the government's willingness to extend it to all CPAS beneficiaries is all the more justified. Why deprive a whole section of the population of this individualized programme, when the results are conclusive, at least in part of the country? I would even go so far as to say that if we did not do so, we could consider it discriminatory compared to people over 25 years of age who also have the right to be helped. With regard to the costs to be borne by CPAS, the government has decided to set aside an additional budget of 10% for the first 12 months of individualised monitoring, so that CPAS can be supported financially. This supplement may be extended by 12 months if necessary. In total, the estimated supplementary budget for 2016 is 6 million, for 2017, just over 58 million and for 2018 just over 50 million. These amounts are considerable, while knowing – I insist – that the CPAS are left with independence from the decision to propose an SIIP to a person or not. Whether you like it or not, this independence of the CPAS must be considered. This is therefore not at all an attack on the power of the CPAS, on the contrary, it is aid which the social workers will certainly make the best use of in the interests of the beneficiaries. In addition, the CPAS, regardless of whether it is in the North, the South or the Central of the country, will itself define its own methodology based on the socio-economic profile of the people it meets. It is well known that in some municipalities the needs and concerns are not the same. The CPAS maintains its independence at this level. It may also, on its own initiative, decide whether a SIIP should be concluded or whether, on the contrary, the beneficiary, for health or other reasons – this has been clearly specified – should be exempted from it. So we are talking about total autonomy, which must be stressed. On the other hand, once the decision is made to conclude an ISIP, of course, I said earlier, there are rights, but there are also duties. The programme provides for three evaluations. In order to empower the beneficiary, sanctions may indeed be imposed in the event of non-compliance. Since we are talking about sanctions, and there was a controversy about it: here too, autonomy is left to the CPAS to decide on the sanction to be applied in case of non-compliance. Once again, the autonomy of the CPAS. We have full confidence in the work of social workers, I said. Finally, an evaluation of the reform is planned within three years. It is also an important element. If the project is not perfect, it can be reviewed. This will allow a monitoring of the work carried out by the CPAS according to the characteristics specific to each of them and to check whether the objectives pursued by the measure are achieved. A self-assessment of the system itself, and of its 589 CPAS, seems to me to be something that should also be stressed. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I might also like to point out that at the beginning of 2016, there were 116,146 beneficiaries of RIS. This figure has increased since 2013 by 3.4% in 2013, 3.8% in 2014, 8.6% in 2015 and 13.2% in 2016. On the one hand, of course, because of the reform of unemployment but, on the other hand, also because of the increase in precariousness and the increase in the number of recognised refugees. Of these beneficiaries, almost one in two, exactly 48.1%, live in the Walloon Region, 28.4% in Brussels and 23.5% in Flanders. I would also like to recall the fact that, if refugees are specifically taken into account, 48% of the recognized refugees who emigrate to the CPAS still emigrate to the CPAS after two years. It's too much. Something needs to be done. Of course, we can denounce the fact that 48% of recognized refugees still emigrate to CPAS after two years. But you have to be able to help them, and not leave them on the side of the road. That is what is interesting with the project proposed today: ultimately, it will allow refugees to benefit from assistance at all levels to reintegrate into social life. This is precisely the objective pursued by the reform of the ISIP: everyone, young or not, has the right to realize his life project and to be helped to achieve it. I would therefore like to repeat a sentence given by Monica De Coninck in committee. She also made a number of extremely interesting interventions about her experience in Antwerp. She said, "You have to invest in people before anything else." I sincerely believe that the current draft goes in that direction. It is extremely social and it is precisely for this reason that we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u130	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our country 21% of the population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Unfortunately, the number is increasing year after year. Poverty organisations are therefore calling for a structural solution, and they are right. The policy must focus on making people self-reliant. We do so, as far as possible, through social and if possible through professional activation. We do so in every possible way. The OMCWs also play an important role in this. They are currently accommodating no less than 125 000 labourers. We are about to adopt a law that will give the OCMWFs an additional means of mentoring people. It will make it possible to offer a tailor-made journey to every wager. This is the individualised project for social integration (GPMI.) Thanks to this instrument, any social worker of an OCMW can conclude a contract with a person entitled to a living wage. The aim of this contract is to actively guide the person entitled to a living wage with a view to self-reliance, independence and integration into our society. In this way society shows that, of course, the labourer has the right to a living wage and is entitled to guidance, but this is not without obligation. Any person receiving support from the OMCW is encouraged to get out of the negative spiral of poverty and social exclusion. Based on mutual engagements, the client is fully integrated into our society. If possible, for some people it is about guidance to the labour market. For others, it will be about integration in our society, social integration. In the end, our vision, which I believe is shared by many, is that we should not only give people fish but also eventually learn how to fish. The GPMI used to exist. It was mandatory for young people under 25. With this design we extend it to all living wagers. For the sake of fairness, it has to be said that a lot of OCMWs used to apply it, although it was not mandatory, even to people over 25 years old. They've been very helpful to the people themselves. For one, it was voluntary work, for the other it was social employment or guidance by the VDAB. In practice, a lot of OCMWFs have already done what we are proposing here today. I'd like to give them a feather for that. They have actually offered the idea of extending this model to all OCMWFs, precisely because we believe that every wager has the right to such an individual journey and to the right guidance to get out of the living wage. Some OCMWFs already did this, but not all of them. The draft law before us certainly contains a number of positive elements, and I will highlight four. I would like to confine myself to four positive elements. Firstly, the stigmatizing labels are removed. This used to only happen for minus-25 year olds, as if only minus-25 year olds had to be integrated or had a right to integration into society. We're cutting the labels. From now on, everyone gets a customized route. All categories are abolished. The routes shall be accessible to all, regardless of the right to a living wage or equivalent, regardless of whether the person concerned is a recognised refugee, a subsidiary protected or born and raised here. Everyone now has the right to a path of social integration and everyone gets the same opportunities, with the same rights and obligations for everyone. Secondly, it is also important that the GPMI contract includes mutual commitments. A contract is always concluded between two parties, in this case between the OCMW and the living wager. It is not, therefore, something that is unilaterally imposed by the OCMW on the living wage earner. Together with the client, plans are being made for a better future and tailor-made work is being done. In this way each person can develop and learn a number of things according to his own abilities, age and family situation. That space for customization is created and that means that the GPMI will look different for each person concerned. It may mean that a living wage earner receives training and is subsequently accompanied to work, possibly in social employment. For example, for a drug addict, the route can involve a withdrawal course and then volunteering, which may be more than enough. For some, guidance to work can also be followed after volunteering. For CD&V it is of great importance and it is first and foremost that it is a commitment to effort rather than a commitment to results. It's a commitment of the life laborer to contribute and to contribute to what's in the plan. He or she's gonna stick to that, too. It is not just the result, it is the effort, the commitment that counts. Thirdly, it is also important to take into account that some people are limited by their vulnerability. We have an eye for that. That is why we welcome the fact that the OCMW, in particular the social worker, is given the opportunity to deviate in certain cases and not to propose a GPMI or, if necessary, to wait for a GPMI to be drawn up. It is important that we have confidence in the social workers, that we give the OMCWs sufficient autonomy and that we do not want to impose everything by rules from the federal Parliament or from other parliaments. We must leave sufficient room for proper assessment at the local level, in the OMCW, which can best assess the situation on the ground. Finally, every person who receives a living wage receives the same treatment. That's a good thing, too. From now on, it is no longer important where one lives. Now perhaps one had the bad luck of living in a certain municipality where there was no tailor-made accompaniment. From now on, everyone has the right to such a GPMI, wherever they live in Belgium. That's good. After all, we are starting from a positive human view. At CD&V, we think it is important to start from what people can effectively and not from what people can't. If we start from that positive picture of people, that also means that we want to give people opportunities to develop and take steps towards social or economic integration. Voluntary community service can have a place in it. We stress that community service cannot in any case be required, that it should be discussed with the client, but that it should remain a choice whether or not to do community service. If that community service is included in the GPMI, then it is only logical that they should be committed to carrying it out effectively. It may be to help in the kitchen of a rest home, to join the green office or to do administrative work at some non-profit association. Each person will be deployed there according to his own abilities and his own talents. What we also stress is that community service should not under any circumstances be abused. For us, it is a means of giving people who are far away from the labour market a stepping stone. However, it must not be the intention to see a means of cheap employment in this. Nor should it be the intention to allow people who do not need community service and can be employed immediately, possibly through social employment, to do community service for another six months. If that is useful, yes, but for others, community service is not necessary or unnecessary and one can immediately move to full employment or social employment. We want to ensure that this is done, including in the evaluation of the law. We are convinced that every human being has talents and opportunities. We must give everyone the opportunity to develop these talents to the full. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we are working on a society that includes people and does not exclude them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u131	Mrs Lanjri, I would like to remind you of an article that I also brought to committee when we discussed this bill there. It's an article that was published in De Standaard. A ship of your party, Patrick Arnou, admits that in Zedelgem already volunteers do the greening in the cemetery there. To the question why, he answered: "A saving measure"? For one piece, yes. So the door's already open. Volunteers take jobs. People who used to work for the green office are apparently already being replaced by volunteers in that municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u132	Mrs Willaert, we can repeat the debate we have had in committee, but I do not think that our fellow Members are interested in it. I already said what I thought I had to say and I repeated it today: it must not be abused as a form of cheap employment. It is also a good thing that the legislative text will be there and we will evaluate it over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u133	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us has not made headlines, but it is therefore no less important. The individualised process of social integration, the GPMI, is a difficult term for what in fact is no longer, but is also nothing less, than giving opportunities to people who each with their background, their life story and their problems end up in few enviable situations where they have to turn to the assistance to get around and lead a dignified existence. We Liberals believe that it should be the intention to welcome, support and give them the opportunity to stand on their own feet again. Each of them should have a look at new professional opportunities through a tailor-made approach and appropriate guidance. At the same time, we are optimistic without being naive. We are well aware that it is not possible to help everyone on this path or to let everyone flow out. For this reason, we are pleased that the draft law strengthens and extends the GPMI. The GPMI is a contract listing mutual rights and obligations. It is an instrument of guidance and therefore fits perfectly within the framework I have just outlined. Today the GPMI is only mandatory for persons under 25 years of age. The bill extends that to all new wage-earners, regardless of their age. That is very positive. Another essential element of the draft law concerns the community service. It is registered as an optional part of the GPMI. A lot of ink has flowed over that community service. By some the concept is dismissed as exploitation or even slavery. However, the system is already being applied in many other countries. It is important, however, to keep a close eye on the practical implementation of the community service. They must be jobs or tasks that add value to the personal and or professional development of the person concerned, which do not interfere too much with the search for work and do not replace regular jobs. As Mr Lanjri pointed out during the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, it cannot be the intention for people to remain stuck in community service. The aim is not to have cheap workers. The aim is to give those concerned a sense of self-esteem and work rhythm, as part of the guidance to the labour market. We will therefore fully support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u134	Mr President, the aim of an OCMW is to guarantee a decent life for everyone. The OCMW legislation is actually very well equipped for that. Two elements need to be checked: there is a need and there is a willingness to work. Today, Minister Borsus proposes to introduce the GPMI and the community service throughout the OCMW's. On the one hand, Minister, I would like to thank you for that. On the other hand, I have a number of critical comments. I would particularly like to thank you for your respect for the work of the OCMWFs, unlike Mrs Homans. Mrs Van Peel, as OCMW chairwoman, is also very positive about the OCMW, but cannot deny that her party mate Homans in the Flemish government is doing everything in her power to thwart the functioning of the OCMWFs. For me, as an ex-OCMW chairwoman, that's a disgrace. So I do not understand why she remains so positive about Minister Borsus' proposal. As I said in committee, human dignity is a general term. In fact, an OMCW council should translate that term into actual social fundamental rights in our society every 6 years. These fundamental social rights have been discussed in Parliament, in various committees, on a number of occasions. We are talking about the ground values of the Enlightenment. These are equality and freedom, fraternity and solidarity. Actually, the OCMW's represent that last value. So every six years it is also necessary to consider what decent life is for the people in our congregation and for the people who come knocking on our door. Me and us Socialists have nothing to learn from anyone. Former Minister Vande Lanotte introduced the right to social integration in 2002. He also created the GPMI as an instrument. Many OCMWFs have applied this instrument very consistently and very creatively. As the former chairman of the OCMW of Antwerp, I admit that my vision is very strongly coloured by that function. For the record, the finality is emancipating people, making people stronger, integrating people, giving people opportunities, not unblocking or taking people away, but stimulating people. That's finality. I am putting such a strong emphasis on this because I will soon point out a certain danger. So, Minister, we cannot, in itself, oppose a project that encourages reciprocity. I would like to stress very clearly that reciprocity between client and OCMW agreements are reached on how we are improving together. Why do I say "together"? I say that because people, if they get opportunities, can grow individually. People who are very much in a society are also very good for social capital in that society. We're all gonna get better. No one gets better by beggars in the streets. No one gets better from people who are sick and aren't being cared for. It is therefore an individual but also a general social interest which we must serve. Many OCMWFs work with the GPMI today, especially in Flanders. I am less aware of the situation in Wallonia and Brussels, but this is certainly being done in Flanders. In fact, we were not waiting for its use to be imposed. After all, what is the strength of the OCMW's regulations? That strength is dignified living, seeing if there are needs and willingness to work. For the rest of it, I'm going through the curve a little bit short, an OCMW can develop or use all the instruments it deems necessary if they are already there, depending on the context and profile of the client. That GPMI is actually just an instrument, not finality. We must be careful with this in the future. The GPMI is not finality. It is an instrument that must be able to be used flexibly to make people grow. I do not know if it is a compliment, Minister Borsus, but you must be careful not to suffer from the Flemish disease. Do you know what that is? It is from Brussels that we decide exactly what needs to be done at local level. That's the emperor's mentality. If one really trusts the local authorities, one has to say what finality they have to realize but that they can choose their instruments for the rest, of course within the existing laws and regulations. However, you are now trying to impose instruments such as the community service and the GPMI on all local OMCWs. Why impose? There are other possibilities. Why didn't you campaign to encourage this on a voluntary basis? Why didn't you encourage some sort of visitation between the OCMWs of Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders to check out what good instruments are? Maybe we can learn from each other. What's the danger? A number of colleagues have already pointed this out. The risk is that the GPMI will be used as a finality or a tool to mainly exclude people from punishment. An instrument like that is like a knife. A knife is also an instrument. One can do something very positive with it, or something very bad. This means looking closely at the human being and the social image of whom these instruments are used. Secondly, and I would like to emphasise this point strongly, you say that if OCMWs use that we pay 10% more of their living wage. So we will intervene financially. I heard some confusion about that today. In Antwerp, we activated very strongly. I started with 14 000 clients, and I left for clarity after two regularization campaigns involving 5 000 to 6 000 clients. There's a big turnover. What did I learn there? I learned there that about 10% of the customers we had could not be led to the regular labour market. I don't. In no way, despite the fact that we sometimes tried for five years. That wasn't those people's fault. Those people in our society today do not have the basic competences to participate in the regular labour market and cannot acquire them either. There was no employer who wanted to give them a regular job. They are often people with a number of medical problems born with relatively low competences. I'm gonna keep it general. They are people who, for some reason, are very hurt in the course of their lives and who are somehow unable to heal from it or get back to it. I have not often said that the OCMW of Antwerp has decided, for obvious reasons, to give that group 200 to 300 euros per month a living wage. Extra. Why? Because one can live off a living wage for a limited period of time. However, one cannot live a lifetime of decent living. So I would have preferred that those 10% of the funds that you now allocate extra to applying a GPMI would be reserved for that particular group. After all, there is a great need there. That group needs a lot of instruments and guidance. Even for those people, we already had a GPMI and an activation project, but we called it social activation, because life isn't just about pennies. We must give people livelihoods, and these are, of course, pennies, but we are also talking about so many other things, such as getting out, participation, sport and culture. It could also be volunteering and community service. So I ask you to think about that. Maybe those resources could be used better. Thirdly, I am getting tired of major changes being made when we are not looking at what instruments are in place today and are being applied very successfully. A debate has already taken place today on the different levels of policy and possible federalisation or defederalisation of competences. On the one hand, it is now said that people need to be activated, given opportunities and supervised, and that is good. On the other hand, however, efforts must be made at the same time in the social economy. I look back at the Flemish level. People who can or can never go to the regular labour market are no longer given opportunities in the social economy. However, there are plenty of social tasks in our society that need to be included. However, they are being abolished or they are making it terribly difficult for those concerned. In this context, I would also mention Article 60 which, if used properly, is one of the best means of activating people who receive a living wage to the regular labour market. Of course, not all living wage-earners will go to the regular labour market. Are they all streaming there? No, but we were successful in Antwerp. In the first phase, of course, this is easier because then people work with the best, the top layer, where people are found with the most competences. But the more people get to the middle group, the more effort must be made to get those people into the regular labour market. Given the flow of migration and the integration of recognised refugees, including many people with competences, we will have to use instruments. These instruments exist today, but all I hear is that they want to be abolished. What works, one wants to destroy without replacing it, but one does create a GPMI in which these instruments must be used. So, Minister, I suggest that you sit down with your fellow Members in other places in order to bring a logical line to policy. I dare go even further. There are many opportunities in the challenges ahead. We see a very strong dualisation in low-skilled and highly skilled people, a dualisation between people with many competences and people with few competences. We are faced with migratory flows, with refugees who need to be integrated. We are faced with an ageing population, a warning of the population. A lot of people are retiring. A lot of jobs get out. Many of the jobs that have to be done with hands are not filled out, while there are people who actually want to work, but who simply need to be well supervised. I would argue in favour of this, but I would also argue in favour of giving the OMCW the opportunity to develop innovative instruments. My great fear about the present draft is that the GPMI will be seen as an administrative procedure in a number of OCMWFs, as more paperwork. In other words, one fills in the dots, one makes type contracts, while one actually has to talk to the client personally, especially in the light of his dreams. What does he want to realize? What efforts does he intend to make and how can he be helped? I hope, from the bottom of my heart, that this dynamic will be maintained, but that it will not be the dynamic to reduce the living wage as soon as the person concerned fails to comply with a number of agreements. I'm coming to community service. As ex-Minister of Work, I have always said that working is very good and makes people very healthy. Not always, but mostly. Working in our society is a key tool for integration. I don't have a problem with community service as long as it doesn't become bullying service or replacement service. There are already a number of examples. We also had this discussion in Antwerp. We have reached a quota of fixed-term contracts, but we have also agreed with the trade unions and the social partners on the number per 100 people, which we would employ in various statutes such as Article 60, alternative penalties, etc. That is something that must be respected. In this way, we are constantly avoiding the discussion that they would take away the work of others. Finally, the organisation of community services, depending on the profile, also requires guidance. This will only produce a positive result if one devotes enough guidance or resources to counselors to guarantee the finality, being a dignified life. In short, we are not against it, but we did not have to. We believe that local authorities are wise enough to know what to do. So we, the Flemish Socialists, will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u135	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is often talk of the OMCW, the people who work there and the people who need to ask for support. But that's totally wrong. I myself started my political career at the OCMW and I am still a member of the OCMW council and that was a very conscious choice. So I do know a bit about what's going on there, like others of us. I know people don't go there for fun to get money. I know how hard the staff of the OCMW work and with how much conviction they try to get people back on track every day. Never did more people call on a living wage like this. This is not something that we can be proud of, although our government sometimes seems to see little difficulty in it, as its measures almost systematically affect the weakest in our society. Anyway, that's the living wage. Since 2002, its allocation and retention can be linked to a GPMI, which has been going on for several hours. This is an agreement between a social worker and a living wage holder with a number of commitments and commitments. It is a negotiated contract between two parties, so that everyone knows what they are doing and what they are aiming for. Such a GPMI has so far been compulsory only for young people, but now, Minister, you want to make that contract compulsory for every person entitled to a living wage, with a possible link to the community service. How you shape this extension to all living wage clients and how you came to do it is exemplary for this majority. You ordered a scientific study with an extensive survey of the field of work, you read the recommendations, you cut out a good-sounding passage here and there, you completely ignored the essence of the study and then did your own sentence with it. After all, the field of work was not really a questioning party for a mandatory GPMI, you enter it anyway. Employees are actually asking for a good guidance tool and also for less administrative burden, you are increasing that burden. You focus primarily on professional integration and you grant social inclusion an inferior status. You allocate extra resources, but you put pressure on time and you link a voluntary community service to the GPMI. Even a small child may wonder how voluntary such a community service is, when those who offer it also decide whether or not to receive a living wage, i.e. an income. Research from the Netherlands, but also from other countries, shows that compulsory volunteering increases the distance from the labour market. The result of this voluntary community service is actually the opposite of what the majority thinks. Evaluations of the system of compensation, because that is the name of the community service in the Netherlands, show that the community service does not increase the competences or position of a living wage client and that the system is mainly used there as a deterrent. It seems almost impossible to find work or tasks that do not lead to the displacement of what I really call voluntary work or, worse still, to the displacement of paid labour. However, you introduce that system and state in your design that the community service should focus on future paid employment. Since practice already proves that it is not, I assume that you are purely from the ideology of what you hear to be imported, not because it is useful for the person in question. Allow me to find that particularly disturbing. Moreover, it was also mentioned earlier, you are playing a bizarre one-two here with your Flemish colleagues, because in Flanders the sector of the social economy is currently being cut and saved and after a few years people have to transfer to the normal economic circuit. If they are not strong enough for that, then the door to OCMW and the living wage is open and therefore awaits them from now on the option of voluntary community service. Will you then allow volunteers to compete with their colleagues in the social economy? As I said earlier, in my response to Mrs Lanjri, this perfide logic is already being seen in some municipalities. In order to save money, tasks that should actually be carried out by staff are now being carried out by volunteers. In addition, it is quite possible that the Community service should do exactly the same as before, but for a living wage which is far below the poverty line and for a guidance which is not clear at all at the moment. Minister, I am convinced that the field of work was open to change and perhaps even needed it. This field of work made numerous suggestions for this, contained in a scientifically substantiated report. However, I fear that this draft law will not bring the expected change in the field of work. You follow a few letters and ignore the spirit of the report. Your draft law is counterintuitive and shows distrust. The latter are not my words, Minister, but the words of the authors of the study itself, in an article recently published. They are very disappointed in your bill and felt very hard the need to react. I can't blame them for that. The report of these scientists included several proposals to strengthen the GPMI as a supporting and dynamic guidance tool. This requires clear, understandable information and transparency; clarity about rights and obligations. In this way, we can work together in peace and stability towards a viable future. This draft law does not deal with these recommendations, quite the contrary. We already see that a GPMI is often signed too quickly because it means extra money, before the client even knows that he has signed a binding contract, late state knows and understands the content. You say in the draft that you want to give the necessary time, but you allocate funds only after the signature of the GPMI. While it is already asking for a lot of investment and guidance from social assistants to achieve a well-negotiated GPMI, with commitments from the client and the OCMW, which the client also effectively understands what he signs, which is well tailored to the client's capabilities and needs, which is feasible but ambitious enough, tailored to the client's needs. Moreover, the funds are only available for a year. I believe that there is a very high risk that funding in this area will displace the logic of aid. There is also a high risk of losing sight of the client perspective. A contract should normally be an agreement between two equal parties, where a weaker party receives additional information, tools and guidance, but also, above all, sufficient time to sign the contract in equal value. Here the time pressure to sign is increased, with all possible consequences. In addition, the social worker now needs to draw up a GPMI for everyone, while in the past more cases could be assessed on a case-by-case basis as to whether it was appropriate. Mr Minister, I think the most important question is whether the OCMWFs will be able to better accompany their clients with this bill, in which society, we would all benefit. There's no guarantee of that. We don't see it. We do not see the necessary conditions for the proposed text to be a good draft law. What's in it for you? There's gonna be more paperwork. The risk of a single sausage is increasing, as is the risk that even more vulnerable people than today will be excluded from the very last safety net of our social security at a time when never more people have to rely on a living wage than they do today. One would be suspicious of less, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u136	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, not all the beneficiaries of the CPAS are profitors, fraudsters, are not people who are complacent in precariousness. If I make these remarks in the preamble to my speech, it is because some policies try to present people who benefit from the CPAS in this way. I would also like to make it clear and out loud that we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that the beneficiaries of the CPAS will remain so for an extended period of time or even for a large part of their lives. We cannot resign ourselves to leaving these people without the prospect of social reintegration and professional reintegration. Resigning themselves to the CPAS indefinitely, that's all I see, except to have a social approach. Nor can those over the age of 25 be left without intensive support for social and professional reintegration, simply because of their age. Is it possible to reintegrate all CPAS beneficiaries professionally? Probably not, and probably not. For those who are socially and professionally most remote from the labour market, there are often other vital priorities for occupational integration, whether they are illness, lack of housing, illiteracy or very serious family difficulties. Our group is therefore in favour, Mr Minister, of the broad lines of this bill: the extension of PIIS to the age of 25, a responsible approach, the desire for social and professional reintegration, the approach with a contract involving rights and duties, the obligation of PIIS, but leaving it to the CPAS to derogate from this obligation. While we support the broad outlines of this bill, we have sought to improve a number of points. That is how I tabled a whole series of amendments in committee. I wanted to convince the majority to sink into the law a series of improvements that you potentially present as being the subject of a circular. At the CPAS level, it is known that the practice is different as well as the approach. Today, each CPAS performs a variable geometry interpretation of certain existing provisions for children under 25 years of age. Therefore, the way in which they will apply the extension of PIIS to the 25+ age group can also be clearly interpreted with varying geometry depending on the practice of CPAS and local policy practices. First of all, I wanted to see in the law the fact that education or training is really taken into account in exactly the same way as a contract of employment. You do not clearly foresee it in the law. Therefore, I say again, each CPAS will be able to interpret it according to its practices. It should be recalled here that a large majority of CPAS beneficiaries have a level of education, either in primary or lower secondary education. Vocational training or the resumption of studies are therefore fundamental to their integration into the labour market. The second thing I wanted to see in the law is the close caregivers. The Minister would have made it clear in the legislation that, without any ambiguity, the obligation of SIIP would not apply to close caregivers, not on the basis of criteria that are open to discussion, but on the contrary to close caregivers as defined in the 2014 law. I have therefore tabled an amendment which I am resubmitting here in plenary so that close caregivers within the meaning of the Act of May 2014, who help a person in a situation of great dependence, whether a person who is seriously ill, a person who is insane or heavily disabled, are not forced to subscribe to an ISP. The third element we wanted to see in the law is community service, which is optional. We would have liked it to take place in non-CPAS and non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related non-CPAS-related You will tell me that this can be done! I can testify that on the ground, depending on local realities, depending on the parties in power, some will allow this community service to be carried out with the voluntary sector independent of local government, others will not allow it or will only allow it with non-profit organizations directly dependent on the municipality and its CPAS. You will understand, minister, that these are elements that really ask us questions. You'll probably tell me you're in agreement with me as far as the nearest caregiver is concerned. You will probably tell me that he will be able to benefit from this famous fairness and that, therefore, the CPAS will not be obliged to impose PIIS on him. No doubt you will tell me that education and training can be taken into account in the same way as a contract of employment and that they will be able to do so in ASBLs independent of the communal power. Maybe... but I'm saying it clearly again, integrating this into a circular isn't enough for us. It flows into the law, if we agree, is an added value and avoids divergent and different interpretations in the head of the CPAS. These three amendments are re-tabled in plenary session. It is particularly important for us to persevere in carrying these aspects of the file. Let me turn to the funding aspect. Funding remains limited. In order to avoid this being transformed into a simple administrative act, funding must be sufficient over time only to make social and, more importantly, professional reintegration effective. Finally, Minister, I will end with a regret. I think it would have been possible to reach an agreement with all the CPAS federations. You've been seeing them lately. You agreed at the meeting on a series of points for which you clearly shared the position of the CPAS and for which the CPAS shared your new position, whether on the entry into force, on the duration of the SIIP of one year, therefore concomitant and identical with that of the additional funding. I think it would have been appropriate to accept some adaptations and improvements to your bill that did not in any way call into question the structure and outline of this bill. I really think it would have been an important added value to have an agreement with the CPAS federations because this comprehensive agreement would have strengthened both your bill and the way in which PIIS will be extended tomorrow to the 25+ years. For all these reasons, and despite the fact, I repeat, that we are in favour of the broad outlines of your bill, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, my colleague, Evita Willaert, spoke in detail. So I'm not going to do the same exercise as her. I absolutely want to reprosecrate fundamentals. Among them is the right of everyone and of everyone to have access to a minimum income that enables them to live in dignity. This right must remain valid even for those who fail, who fail, who sometimes go from failure to failure, even if it may seem strange or curious to us that someone misses work projects, social integration projects several times. There are life paths that are like this. Our responsibility, in a society that wants to be united – and I hope that we all share this minimum objective – is that these people are entitled to a minimum income. I stress this fundamental and unconditional right and would like to re-establish the link I have made in committee with the evolution of practices, techniques and concepts that have recently emerged in the fight against poverty. We all agree on the positive effect of the measures that have been taken, which consist first of giving someone housing so that this person, once alone or with his or her family, can devote all his or her energy to his or her life project, social integration and occupational integration. The same applies to this minimum income: if a person does not have the minimum guarantees of being able to feed himself, to live, to pay his rent, to pay his electricity, to look after his children, it is not to be hoped that he will mobilize for other things. The bill you are putting before us puts this access to this basic minimum income in parentheses for these people, who are the most vulnerable in our society. This is unacceptable. The Chamber's legal services, on second reading, suggested that you remove words such as "following the law is mandatory", and you agreed. Your first will in this project was to assert that you were going to compel, demand, that we were in a society of merit, that we were going to refuse the error. Yet the good practice, which already applies now, and not only in Flanders, consists in the accompaniment, the elaboration with the person of a life project. It is a journey that is made with it, a construction of steps to actually lead it to overcome its situation, to dare face the difficulties of job search, search for activity, participation in life in society. In the same way, you say that your community service will develop on a voluntary basis, agreed, but once accepted, it becomes mandatory so that the person will no longer be able to give it up. Here too, it is a decoy, it is a way of imposing your will for success necessary to be able to benefit from the fruits of the solidarity of society. As all those who work with the people concerned have told you, when they are in difficulty, they have suffered several failures, they find themselves confronted with a social worker knowing that they must show good will to keep their rights, they tend to overestimate their abilities and engage in projects that are not suitable for them. They must be allowed to miss and then to start again by remaining at their side, continuing to accompany them. It's no use doing strength training against them. There are now provisions that CPAS use. They make it possible to contractualise the relationship of support and accompaniment, to give access to fixed-term employment contracts – I am thinking of Article 60 – to resort to voluntary activity. Tags and frameworks define these measures. For example, volunteering or volunteering is for tasks that are complementary to work-related tasks. We can't accomplish them under any condition and anywhere. There is a blur around your community service, even if you claim that the rules and volunteer status will be applied. However, the guarantees will be different, since your goal is that the individual contribute to activities for the benefit of the individual and that of society, the community or the community. So you want a "render" for a "data", the latter being the income of social integration. Several members of the majority argue that without this tool and mandatory contracting, people are kept in idleness and dependence. This is what we do in Wallonia, where there are more unemployed people and people in poverty, as if it depended on the relative and specific policies of the CPAS and on access to social integration income; as if there were no other responsibilities elsewhere on which to work. As far as the obligation to contract is concerned, I have already said in committee, but for me it is fundamental that the approach is not ethically acceptable in a relationship between a social worker and a beneficiary of aid. We want to make it seem that this relationship is developed between two people on an equal footing with each other. A social worker who imposes a contract is necessarily in a relationship of power vis-à-vis the beneficiary. Here, it's worse because, at the same time, you leave the autonomy of the CPAS in the ability to identify people who for reasons of health or equity will not be able to develop an SIIP and find a job, but at the same time you say you want to set up a monitoring of the CPAS. Putting in place an accompanying work of the CPAS to evaluate with them the techniques, the results obtained, the obstacles encountered and the solutions to be brought about is a type of approach; with a monitoring that compares the results and the placements to the job, on the basis of figures, you put pressure on the workers of the CPAS and relativize the autonomy of these CPAS. Another element missing in your project is the interest in this famous society and the members of the community and community, who are and must be full partners in the policies you want to pursue. Generally speaking, if a person with difficulties is to be integrated into a cultural, sporting, social, associative or professional setting, the groups and organizations to which they are heading must also have the capacity to do so. They need to have the ability to accommodate people who are sometimes weird in their functioning, so sometimes what happens with them misses. We must therefore support these actors. It also takes time, energy, and to accept that with them, sometimes it works, sometimes it misses, and that later, with another person, it may work. The right to trial and error must be preserved, not only for the beneficiary of social integration income, but also for members of society who agree to play the game. And the time spent on social workers must also include this dimension. The additional funding you are going to provide for CPAS workers to achieve these ISIPs must therefore be more substantial and permanent. It's not just about working for a year with a person. Cross-cuttingly, to be useful to all beneficiaries, these workers must have the opportunity to negotiate partnerships on the ground. To do this, the funding of CPAS needs to be reviewed in a global and much more important way than what you are considering, and in a clearer way, in better consultation with partners, workers and CPAS managers. This is obviously not done in a vacuum from a cabinet. In the project, you create a hierarchy between work at the level of CPAS actors, but also at the level of the beneficiary's participation and social integration work, between what it will do if it is in an environment or in a cultural, associative context, and the "work" dimension. You say the primary objective is for the person to find a job. Otherwise, it can be accompanied and it can be considered valid if it is integrated into another context. This is an arbitrary hierarchy which again does not take into account the individual journey to be made with each. For some people, perhaps until the end, the accompaniment will concern something other than work, but that it will allow him to live in society. Mr Minister, in a much more comprehensive way, there are elements that are not taken into account in this government and in this Parliament. They concern the expectations and requirements that are being met with regard to the weakest. They are required to be able to return to the workplace. If it were possible for everyone, it would also have been known for a long time. I turn to your actions on how to create jobs, and those on how to reduce the impact of social dumping. As we have seen in discussing your transposition of the public procurement directives, you have not dared to go so far as to put a real end to social dumping. From the moment you agree that it is still possible for the public procurement criterion to be the lowest price, this means that you will tolerate diversion and social dumping. You are against the creation of jobs, especially low-skilled jobs. You therefore run counter to the policy you want to pursue through the return to employment of beneficiaries of social integration income. The measures taken by this government to combat the destruction of jobs linked to businesses and economic actors who prefer speculation and the use of tax havens rather than investment in job creation run counter to the policies you want to defend regarding the return to employment of beneficiaries of social integration income. On the other hand, you expect these beneficiaries to succeed in finding a job. We will vote against this bill. But my conclusions are broader than "for" or "against" an individualised social integration plan. Their content is that your policies tackle the quality of employment, which they have excluded and continue to exclude the unemployed, penalise part-time work and penalise beneficiaries of social integration income. You always take more and more hard on the weakest, as you continue to bow to the powerful, and especially to those who prefer to cheat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB has intervened in this debate in committee to explain its firm opposition to this project and, in particular, to serving the community for the beneficiaries of integration income. I therefore do not wish to enter the debate again, even though my colleagues have not failed to repeat their arguments at length enough. Finally, I have only one question to ask the minister or the majority. If you find service to the community to be an important task for society, why don't you give people a real job? Indeed, the best way to reintegrate someone into society is to offer them a real job, otherwise how will this service to the community help? Nothing! CPAS and local authorities face significant budget cuts. They will therefore entrust more and more tasks to "volunteers" within the framework of these services to the community. According to the government, this system will operate on a voluntary basis. Is that true? We'll see about the autopsy. In any case, the experts of the Haute École Charlemagne and the Université Saint-Louis who conducted a study at the request of the Minister indicated that this measure "can open the door to arbitrary practices on a case-by-case basis of the CPAS in relation to their users, depending in particular on local political choices", as is already the case in some foreign countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude my speech with a political conclusion and a practical conclusion. From a political point of view, this project, like the whole activation policy, shows that such activation is a form of social dumping, but between Belgian residents to exert downward pressure on all wages. From a practical point of view, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will vote red.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u139	Mr President, I would just like to say, on behalf of my party, that we are not against PIIS, but against making it mandatory. It is clear that we will vote against this proposal. I will not repeat everything that has been said here, but we believe that this project will increase insecurity and put people on the street when they certainly do not deserve it. It is not because we are in a precarious state that we are unable to go further in life. They're people who don't get a job and they can't get a job. Your project is not going to help them. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u140	Mr President, I will not repeat what I have already explained in committee. It is well known that it is a good thing for me that the proposal links living wages to voluntary community service and to an individualised project. I am convinced, like many of you, that work and employment are the best way to get a job seeker out of poverty and out of isolation. Nevertheless, I would like to add to the debate two points on which I have now tabled another amendment in plenary and which have not yet been discussed. As I read in the explanatory memorandum, the draft law provides for the inclusion in our society of elected persons who are currently under subsidiary protection and are currently entitled to call upon the OMCW in a similar way to those who are refugees and, as with the recognised refugees, also to register with the right holders of the right to social integration. I don't quite understand the government's choice. It is not really consistent with the decisions they have taken to limit the right of residence for recognised refugees and persons with subsidiary protection status in time. I believe that this decision was taken with the intention of preparing for the possible return to the countries of origin. For those for whom it is intended to return to the country of origin, I wonder why they should be socially integrated into society in this way. Rather, they should be prepared for a return home. I therefore do not understand why a government party, such as the N-VA, which even advocates a separate statute on asylum, is thus increasing hope and also increasing the suction effect. In the amendment we have tabled, we also opt for a similar treatment of recognised refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. However, we do not do so by adding that last category to the law that you are amending today. We take that category out so that they, like the people with subsidiary protection, can go to the OCMWFs. I now come to a second point. It's about employment and getting to work. I have heard many speakers show that it is very difficult for certain categories to get to work. However, no one will be able to contradict me if I say that the knowledge of the language of the language in which the person is living is a very important key to achieving a permanent relationship and social integration. Those who do not or do not have the knowledge of the language of the region and who, through the right to social integration, call on the solidarity of that community, we can expect them to make an effort to acquire that knowledge of languages. For this reason, we propose that a commitment of results be attached to this. In the amendment that we have retabled today, we propose a system that is largely inspired by the Dutch example, legislation that is in force in the Netherlands today. The idea is to develop a system to which persons who claim the right to social integration are linked a commitment to results in order to acquire the language of the region. The right to social integration is linked to that linguistic knowledge. For that law, which is in force in the Netherlands, a legislative amendment was adopted in March 2015. The requirement for mastery of the Dutch language was added to a law, similar to the bill now before us. Since the beginning of this year this Dutch law has been incorporated. That law stipulates that a social assistance worker who does not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language is required to get a job. In fact, it is only purely functional knowledge that can initially count on a reduction in the assistance if he does not take an initiative to improve that knowledge. If the welfare worker perseveres in anger and the situation continues, he will lose his full assistance in the long run. That's the idea. In the Netherlands, the system for reducing assistance by 20% in the first six months is between six and twelve months by 40%. After a year, the assistance will then be completely abolished if the person concerned has not made the necessary efforts to know enough Dutch, precisely in order to get to work on the labour market. In practice, unfortunately, it is often necessary to have a stick behind the door, because the local language will not be self-contained as long as the assistance continues indefinitely. We have broadly accepted this Dutch regime in Amendments Nos 3 to 5 which I have retabled today. Those who are convinced that it is necessary, that it is a plus and that it is essential that, in order to get a job, we know the local language of the area in which we live, as opposed to the vote in committee today, we get another chance to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u141	That concludes all registered and unregistered speakers and gives the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various statements, questions and comments on the draft law. It is, of course, an important issue for our fellow citizens, especially the most vulnerable of them. In this area we have tried to find the golden middle ground, the balance between aid, support, guidance and responsibility. We talked a lot about instruments. This term seems correct to me in this case. The government and I, through this text, want to equip and help as many of our fellow citizens as possible to find or regain the path of autonomy in our society by equipping them with the means to find work – this is clearly a priority – but also to allow many of them to integrate, to have a life of person in our society. I have heard some remarks and questions that seem to me quite legitimate, but also trials of intent, slogans, exaggerations, comparisons. I have even heard the debate on public procurement come back. Allow me not to share this opinion at all. Secondly, activity is not the subject of our debate, even if it is one of our government's priorities, which wants to reform, support activity and create jobs. The figures are there: they are important and eloquent. I now turn to administrative simplification and sanctions. I recalled – and it will be included in the royal decree as well as in the circular – that we wanted to integrate the transmission and management of information through the electronic social report and wanted to organise a real administrative simplification. I don't need any formalities for CPAS. On the other hand, I would like to see real qualitative and quantitative monitoring of the work carried out and its results. In order to respond specifically to the ASBLs, voluntary service may be exercised outside the strictly communal sphere or the CPAS, but of course will have to remain in the non-market sphere, in the associative sphere. Again with regard to voluntary service, I would like to point out that it is intended primarily for beneficiaries. The interpretation of the echevin who had spoken in the media was wrong. It is not for those who referred to it to create a category of new articles 60 or 61. It is an instrument to enable people to be on a path where they acquire a certain number of knowledge, contacts, opportunities or levers of integration into the society and the community around them. It has been recalled that this service will be voluntary, but from the moment it is contracted, it becomes, as far as its continuation is concerned, mandatory. I would also like to spell out the criticisms I have heard. Social workers would therefore have a massive intention to impose unfairly, incorrectly and in violation of their commitment as social workers, GPMIs, PIIS accompanied by voluntary service to the detriment of the beneficiaries. I refuse this trial of intent that, Mr. Massin and others, you do to the social workers. Show me these excesses if you see them! Our inspection services will be there to check these.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u143	Mr Borsus, please do not betray my thoughts or my words. That's not what I said and I'm starting to get sick of it! I do not accuse you, I do not transform your words; please do the same with me or it will go very badly!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u144	To be very precise – I am used to trying to be – I have heard from the gallery "Leonin contract". In civil law, it is a contract by which a party is unjustly obliged to accept what it would not accept under normal circumstances. I believe that our thousands of social workers will indeed propose these PIIS, with their various contents and tools, in the interest of the beneficiaries and not in such an approach as was described earlier in the rostrum. As far as content is concerned, I hope, of course, that, in conjunction with regional competences in terms of integration pathways, they will include instruments of training, information, knowledge of languages, paths of social pre-integration, social integration and occupational integration. I would also like to be clear about the Community service...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u145	Just a moment, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u146	In relation to this, let us be correct: I have indeed spoken of a "Leonin Pact" as a party in a state of weakness, it does not have the opportunity to negotiate the terms of the proposed contract. This is likely to happen because the arbitrariness is being brought back as part of the bill that is on the table. This arbitrariness already exists, which was highlighted by the authors of the SPP study Social Integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u147	For several weeks, a number of CPAS have told me that they are already proposing a number of PIIS. Many CPAS go further in the study, indicating that they want ISIPs to be offered to more people. I do not read anywhere, in the comments addressed to me, these arbitrariness accusations. Arbitrariness means, therefore, that social workers should be considered to be arbitrarily imposing elements in relation to the relationship between the social worker and the beneficiary. I do not accept this trial, which is done to social workers and CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u148	Minister, I have never said or implied that arbitrariness would exist in the head of social workers. If you read your study well, you will see that it states that the arbitrariness could come from decisions and instructions of a political nature that would be given to social workers by the Social Action Council or the Permanent Office. Read your study again!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u149	That is frankly dishonest of you! Indeed, you highlight the fact that rendering a contract is not rendering a project or the construction of a work project, a life project, between a social worker and a beneficiary. That is not what is in your bill. In your project there is clearly an obligation to contract. I regret that a contract is not a healthy way to work. The arbitrariness and unequal power ratio, it is you who create them. You repeat that through our interventions, we believe that social workers are zero, that they will do anything and not respect the beneficiary. That's not what we're telling you. We say that you create working conditions and relationships between the social worker and the beneficiary that will lead to normalization of people, exclusions, and that will make people unable to meet the expectations that will be nurtured vis-à-vis them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u150	What I hear is stunned! In the granting of integration income today, Mrs Gerkens, is there not already a number of taxations, a number of follow-ups? Is the arrangement at work not controlled? Are not all these elements already being followed up today? Do you consider all this to be abnormal? I hear Mr. Massin's precision, and she says it's not the social workers, it's the special committees or the CPAS councils that you accuse. I say in the same way that I do not endorse or share this trial. I will conclude by mentioning several points which I believe need to be stressed. With regard to the texts – and this has been noted – we did not wish to introduce any discrimination. The scheme is aimed at all beneficiaries and, of course, the CPAS has, on a reasoned basis, the possibility to decide on exceptions according to the situation or elements of the beneficiary's situation. It is retroactivity, of course, because we hope that this mechanism, positive in the eyes of the majority, mobilising considerable additional budgets for CPAS, can be proposed to a whole series of recent beneficiaries of integration income. But the retroactivity is wider: CPAS can also voluntarily offer PIIS to persons who have obtained, before six months, an integration income but in this case, on a completely voluntary basis. Mrs Fonck, with regard to close caregivers, this element will be expressly included in our circular. According to its assessment and if appropriate, the CPAS will be able to exempt the caregiver close to an SIIP, if necessary. Finally, I make the connection with the Gemeenschapsdienst and the law. The draft Royal Decree expressly specifies the link between the community service and the law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers. We are happy to have a precise monitoring of the implementation of the legislation. That sounds healthy to me. In addition, the evaluation of this legislation in three years' time will be an important moment. This is one of the most significant reforms that we are given under this legislature, with regard to CPAS. I thank those who have found a number of positive elements. I am also attentive to everyone else's comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u151	Minister, it would be worth looking at social practices. As you have said, a lot of work has already been done, as can be seen from the individualised support to set goals with the interested parties, to build a project step by step and even to do otherwise. And fortunately! But why add a dimension that rejects someone by telling them that it does not correspond to what is expected in terms of mobilization, without being able to present them with alternatives? You are diverting the study, which considers that a contract is potentially useful with a certain category of people, but it is with those who have the most abilities and with whom the relationship becomes as egalitarian as possible that a PIIS contract proves to be fruitful. When you end up with people who are too weak, it is no longer an integration tool. That's what the study tells you and what you don't take into account, keeping only a few things that make it easier for you to justify your policies. The monitoring you mentioned is not included in your bill as a real evaluation. Of course, an evaluation is necessary, but provided that it is developed with the actors and that its method is defined collegially. But that is not what you are preparing, since you are defending the idea of a monitoring which will list the best practices which, if possible, will have to be generalised to others. Therefore, there will be "good" and "bad" CPAS. I hope I'm wrong and you're going to change your mind by finally working constructively with the actors on the ground and not simply asking them for their advice from time to time. Finally, you will not remove me from the idea that if you put all your policies together, you would see that on the one hand, you are destructing employment and, on the other, you are asking the weak to find employment. Accountability, you make it focus on these people and not on job-creating people or the political actors you are.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u152	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u153	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1864/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1864/7) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u154	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u155	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u156	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Peter Luykx, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u157	Minister, you rightly referred to the BIO in committee as a powerful instrument of international cooperation. Our group is also convinced that the power of the private sector, alongside that of all other sectors, can develop the South in a sustainable way. Investing in the local private sector is an important part of this, as is providing technical assistance to share our expertise in micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. Conversely, opening the BIO to private investors is a powerful way to guide our entrepreneurs in their initiatives in the South. We agree with you that the existing law on the BIO can use a number of adaptations to better deal with global development in the field of international cooperation: the SDGs, agreements in the framework of Financing for Development and recently the Panama Papers. We are therefore happy to support certain clarifications in the BIO Act. If there is one message, it is that of the SDGs and the Financing for Development Conference, where it was argued that development today is a global and universal story and no longer a North-South story or a purely ODA-driven story. That is why it is interesting that the BIO is given the opportunity to set up funds in our country, which can then carry out investments in developing countries. This way of working can be catalysing for the relationships between our entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs from developing countries. Moreover, it is more than a good thing that you also ensure that even the smallest start-ups can benefit from technical assistance by removing the 50/50 distribution for the financing of technical assistance and allowing the BIO itself to determine the size of the assistance budget it takes on. This certainly stimulates the entrepreneurial spirit in the intervention countries. We therefore hope that the draft will be a first step towards closer cooperation between our country and partner countries in the private sector. Our partners in the South have every interest in enabling business to grow there. Our companies can also help and should be fully supported if they want to take the step to the South. You can therefore count on our support for the draft, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u158	Colleagues, before we speak to Mr Miller, I have just been informed that our colleague, Philippe Pivin, has become a grandfather at this very moment of a granddaughter, Elsa. We congratulate him! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u159	Mr President, Minister, following the Conference on Financing for Development and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, held in Addis Ababa and New York respectively, the law of 20 July 2014 which organizes and structures our bilateral and multilateral cooperation was to be amended. Through your reform, several pieces of legislation have evolved to best reflect the new paradigm of development. In this regard, the private sector, public authorities and civil society have a greater role to play in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our legislative framework must take this into account. Minister, in light of this new paradigm, the MR supports the government's project and the private sector involvement approach. The countries of the South have a real need for inclusive and sustainable growth, and we are convinced that engaging the private sector must be seen as the main driver of progress in developing countries. Thanks to BIO, Belgium has the opportunity to strengthen local private companies. It's essential. The changes brought about by the reform are perfectly in line with the government agreement which recommended stimulating the private sector as an engine of economic growth, in particular through improving the investment climate in partner countries. In addition, the law stipulates that private investors concerned with the social and environmental impact of their financing will be selected. I would point out that the new legislation leaves the management contract and the Belgian State's annual contribution to BIO unscathed. These are the reasons why our group supports your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u160	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, development cooperation cannot escape the increasingly rapid changes in the globalising world. The SDGs have replaced the MDGs and the classic development aid, as we have known in recent decades, has replaced a new development aid, on the basis of a new paradigm, as you rightly point out in the BIO explanatory statement. The partner countries themselves also play a much greater role in development cooperation. As a result of the ABOS scandals, the Belgian legislative instruments have been substantially amended since the end of the 1990s. It implemented the current new insights and, in an international context, was very progressive. Despite foresight and modernity, our instruments cannot escape social change and new insights. It is a good thing, Minister, that you are taking the necessary initiatives, and you have already taken many, so that our development cooperation remains up-to-date. With this initiative you want to respond to the new development paradigm, which was established in Addis Ababa, on development finance, but also in New York, around the SDGs. You want to respond even more than before to the role of the private sector in developing countries. I too am convinced that the private sector can play an important role in developing countries. In order to make real progress, economic growth is necessary, provided that, as you always say, it is inclusive, and that in other words, the large group of poor people in the South can benefit from this economic growth and will be able to build up a decent existence. However, questions about the legitimacy, effectiveness and efficiency of the private sector in developing countries, as well as the instruments used for this purpose, including in Belgium, should continue to be raised. In recent years, the criticism was, by the way, justified that the BIO was focused solely on the financing of profitable projects, which meant that the development return, which should ultimately have been the target for the BIO, was increasingly undersnowing. It is a good thing that, in accordance with the government agreement, you will oblige the BIO to step up investment with a stronger focus on development efficiency. Only for this reason will CD&V approve the present design. However, Minister, we will not do so blindly. After all, there are a number of concerns. In fact, the present legislative proposal contains a number of points which remain open to interpretation, because they are not yet formulated sufficiently. Therefore, CD&V will continue to monitor closely whether the impact on development and the relevance of development is actually realised by the BIO. It would therefore be useful and desirable for the definitions to be clearly defined in a BIO management contract to be approved, as I rightly said in committee. I would like to highlight three points which are important to us in the management contract. You have repeatedly stated in both the draft and during the discussion in committee that there will be a stronger focus on development efficiency. Very few bodies have been able to define the effectiveness of development. However, development efficiency is the most important aspect for the BIO. But here I think the shoe is pinching. Private investors, whom you would like to attract more, are understandably mainly interested in achieving the highest possible financial return with as little risk as possible. However, investment in developing countries, more particularly in fragile countries, as you yourself have pointed out and for which we have opted in our development policy, involves large risk derivatives, both in terms of success and in terms of financial return. Therefore, it would be useful and desirable for a clear definition of development efficiency in the management contract of BIO to be approved. Secondly, I refer to the important Article 3 of the draft that defines companies that are entitled to BIO's resources. If you read this article, almost every company located in one of the intervention countries can apply for the necessary resources from BIO. It is therefore necessary to clarify which companies are not entitled to this at all. When you read the article, it is very extensive. My group therefore calls for this to be made clear, including in the management contract. The same Article 3 also refers to the fact that aid will be provided in intervention countries to companies that contribute to the fight against climate change in those countries. They can also claim support from BIO. Does this mean that a company that lays solar panels to generate cheap own energy can claim funds from BIO? If this is the case, this cannot be seen as financing companies with development aid resources. Is the added value for the people of the South itself noticeable in this case? Here too, it is necessary to clarify the new management contract of BIO. Third, questions continue to arise as to the amount of the amount granted by BIO. That's still pretty high. At its establishment in 2001, the primary objective was the local, private sector, the small and medium-sized enterprises to which you also refer. If we look at the amounts, we are talking about at least one million euros, which must be matched by a return. Then I wonder whether these micro and small enterprises will be ignored. Of course, it can be done indirectly, through funds in which BIO will participate. As already mentioned, it was those companies on which BIO should focus, which may not be eligible. Large companies have sufficient own resources and other options on the capital market to generate investment resources. That is why we are calling for a degree of coherence with other actors and NGOs. You also referred to this in the explanatory memorandum. In your reply in committee, too, you said that this is important. However, that was not yet defined in the law. This needs to be further specified in the new management contract. The NGOs clearly have something to contribute, but the alignment with BIO today is only aimed at an informal chat. I think it would be very powerful if you were to achieve greater coherence in the integrated operation, by working together with NGOs and with BIO on how to work together at government level in those countries. This coherence also needs to be defined in the management contract. You've also given a lot of additional orders to BIO. I think it is a good thing that you also provide adequate resources, as well as sufficient qualified staff. Today BIO has 40 million euros, including the budget for subsidies and capital investments. Since there are a lot of new assignments, I think it is necessary to have well-qualified staff. That is why I hope that you will succeed in pursuing this 0,7% in the budgetary negotiations. Mr Minister, the CD&V Group will approve this draft because the main lines are in line with the coalition agreement. Through BIO, you intend to make a substantial contribution to the economic development of the countries of the South and thereby to strengthen self-reliance. Our group is absolutely in favour of this. However, the modalities and manner in which BIO will do so need to be further specified in the management contract to be negotiated. We will continue to monitor this and follow it up in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u161	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law enables an innovative policy, adapted to a changing world and a changing international development policy. BIO certainly has a role to play in this. For the liberals, the private sector is an important aspect of international development. This could be a win-win. Sustainable economic development and growth is also the best instrument in the fight against poverty and the many problems faced by these societies in our partner countries. Our policies must be structuralally supportive as much as possible and ensure that individuals can take their destiny into their own hands in order to improve their families and their environment. If we can get private investors to join us through BIO in a story that not only strives for return, but also looks at the impact on the population and the environment, that can only be a positive turn of events. I would also stress that the importance of digitalisation in developing countries is crucial. The ways in which this can be done can, in a manner of speaking, still be devised tomorrow. The possibilities there are enormous, albeit in agriculture, urban planning or in health care. It is therefore important that we make our instruments more flexible in order to make this possible on the ground. We must continue to work on the broader framework that makes such development possible. This bill, Minister, is entirely in line with that logic. That is why our group will support your draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and I held a discussion in committee on Article 8 of the draft law, which introduces Article 3quinquies into the BIO Act. The discussion was about whether or not the door to tax havens as an intervention country is closed. Mr Minister, I have looked at this article again and I maintain my position that, as a result of the new article you are inserting, a country can act as an intervention country if it has not complied with OECD standards for less than five years. A country that fulfils that condition is Panama, for example. As a result of your text, Panama will be able to act as an intervention country, or as a country where an intermediate structure of BIO is housed, due to the fact that Panama is not in compliance with OECD standards for less than 5 years. When examining your text, I came across Article 3quinquies, § 2, which refers to a list to be established by royal decree, a list setting out the countries referred to in Article 307 of the Income Tax Code. Maybe I can't look hard, I don't rule that out, but I didn't find that royal decision. Mr. Secretary, is there such a royal decision? If that is not the case, you, as Minister of Finance, have failed to do so for two years. In order to solve the problems that I have now identified, I have tabled an amendment which states that the five-year derogation you are inserting may only apply to the least developed countries and to low-income countries. If we do so, we will achieve the objective you have set ourselves, in particular to ensure that developing countries such as Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, I can also list the 11 other partner countries which also do not yet meet the OECD standards as an intervention country. We want to preserve this, but we do not take it that countries that have a notorious tax paradise can, thanks to the new text you are proposing, act as an intervention country of the BIO or as a country where an intermediate structure through which the BIO operates is housed. That is why we shall be putting our amendment to the vote in the near future. If the amendment is not adopted, we will not approve the bill, Minister, because you are opening doors to tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u163	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the discussions in committee, we have dealt with an interesting question, namely who can finance development cooperation and for whom can this funding intervene? BIO has for a number of years allowed the private sector – environmentalists would like this to be the case for individuals as well – to finance development cooperation. Indeed, there is an extremely large private savings in Belgium, since it is about more or less 260 billion euros. However, we know that in our country there are investors looking for investments that make sense, that carry a project. In this case, it is a matter of developing the South. And BIO could make this possible. Who can invest? The private sector. I therefore strongly encourage you to work, in the future, on a legislative framework that would allow crowdfunding and thus agglomerate private savings that could invest in micro-enterprises, in development in Africa or elsewhere in the South. I will focus my speech on one element, namely for whom? In re-reading the report, my attention was drawn to the amendment you are making through Article 4(3), which states that BIO has the social purpose of investing directly or indirectly in the development of micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and "enterprises established in the countries of intervention". I share the same fears as Mrs Van Hoof. By referring only to the terms "enterprises established in the countries of intervention", this would imply that the financing of BIO could be extended to any enterprise in the agricultural sector, including agribusiness and large business enterprises. I therefore expect you to give me further details on this. You know that there is a controversy between the cooperation sector, in particular your services, and the development cooperation community, around two companies: Feronia in the DRC, which produces palm oil, which is a publicly traded company and which has benefited from development aid budgets, and Addax Bioenergy, which produces bioethanol from sugar cane. These are not micro-enterprises or small and medium-sized enterprises. They are clearly very large companies with a goal that is not a goal of sustainability. If BIO finances agribusiness companies, it misses its target. I would like you to make it clear here that my interpretation of the third paragraph of Article 4 is not correct and that, therefore, according to the current law, BIO could not invest in the companies I have just mentioned and in other large companies that make agrofuels. Production of agrofuels favours an export industry. However, the objective of Development Cooperation, particularly since the Belgian Technical Cooperation drafted a note on food security in 2010, is to invest in projects that promote family farming and economic projects aimed at the development of local trade, agriculture and the local economy. If we fail to achieve this goal, BIO would miss its target. For the rest, we share the same fears as when the law was created two and a half years ago. On the other hand, we remain in favour of the idea that development cooperation is also the business of all citizens and small investors, including small savers, small independents, small Belgian entrepreneurs who can help small entrepreneurs in the South here or there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u164	Minister, this bill aims to reform BIO once again to respond to the will of this government and to your particular desire to focus on the development of the private sector in the countries of the South as the public sector, unfortunately, moves increasingly to the background. As a reminder, after several scandals, BIO had been deeply reformed by Minister Labille. This reform was then welcomed by the sector as responding to past abuses, in particular in the selection of projects or in the use of tax havens echoed by the press, while improving the role of BIO, in line with the action of our Belgian cooperation and in particular in the service of food security. Through this reform, BIO could no longer play a solo role in Belgian cooperation. Therefore, we do not fully understand this new reform proposed today and its added value after only three years. On the contrary, we have the impression that we are opening Pandora's box again and gradually. The risk is very real of introducing the same blurry which, prior to the Label reform, led to malfunctions or inconsistencies between the methods used, the methods of operation and the choice of certain projects. While the search for flexibility is obviously important and I can understand it, many of the questions I asked in committee have remained unanswered. Why, Minister, make the conditions for tax havens more flexible? Who will control the investment funds that are made possible by this project? Who will ensure the coherence of the projects selected? At the level of BIO, and here I join my colleague, there are finally very few people who are in charge of monitoring and follow-up. Will additional staff be hired to carry out all these new missions? On the other hand – and here I agree with the fears of my colleague, Mr Hellings – you are aware of my group's strong and historic commitment to food security and food sovereignty. Unfortunately, this project seems to allow for an extension of the scope of application of BIO by extending it to any company in the agricultural sector, including large agribusiness companies, with the possible drifts that are known. I would therefore like, Mr Minister, to assure us here, so that it is black and white in the report, that this extension will in no way undermine the orientation of the Agriculture and Food Security note, which focuses on sustainable family farming. I fear that policy coherence will be undermined. I had tabled amendments to ensure that that was not the case. The first of these was aimed at better monitoring of the details of economic activities, country by country. The second concerned a very important element, namely the increased control of the taxes on these economic activities paid by these companies which received funding, investment or subsidies from BIO. Finally, the third amendment sought to ensure better parliamentary control of BIO-funded activities. Unfortunately, my amendments, as well as those of my colleagues, have all been rejected. Of course, this does not improve policy coherence. This is not a good signal for transparency. This is not a good signal in terms of meeting our priorities, whether in terms of sustainable development, human rights and policy coherence. That is why, Minister, you will understand that my group will abstain today, as it abstained in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u165	Mr President, I will reply in order of the comments that have been made. I will combine the remarks of Mrs Bellens and Mr Miller. Indeed, you stress the fact that the private sector has an important role to play in development. The sustainable development goals speak precisely of the fact that we should move from trillions to trillions. If we are to be sure that poverty will be eradicated around the world before 2030, we will not only have to look to the public authorities but also to civil society and certainly to the private sector. When we look at the figures, we find that in developing countries 60% of GDP, 80% of funding flows and 90% of employment is created by the private sector. The only way to get people out of poverty in a sustainable way is by ensuring that there is sustainable, but also inclusive economic growth. If that economic growth is not there, if the private sector does not get its place, then there is no sustainable way to lift people out of poverty. Mrs Van Hoof, you say that we would only look at profitable projects from the perspective of the private sector. First, BIO has the possibility to approve certain projects that achieve zero economic return. It is therefore possible to approve projects with zero returns, assuming that the rate of return on development is strong enough. I also do not agree that the private sector is merely looking for maximum economic returns. Today, across Europe, the impact investment sector is developing very strongly. In Belgium it is even less developed for the moment, but it is not the case that investors or the private sector look purely at economic returns. More and more people are also starting to look at other elements of development, and that is a rather good thing. You say that a number of things can be interpreted, for example the impact on development. I would like to mention one element that BIO uses in his evaluation. BIO looks at what is called the development rating. It has a number of criteria to look at. Each of these seven criteria must be considered. We need to look at local economic growth. One has to look at the possibility of innovation or consolidation for the private sector. We need to look at the impact on food security. I know this is important to Mrs Grovonius. The impact on food security is one of the criteria for evaluating the project. Access to basic goods and services must be looked at. We need to look at the impact on climate change reduction. One should look at improving the best practices in the field of ESG. Finally, we also need to look at the impact on gender equality. These are all elements used today by BOI in evaluating projects. It is quite clear that not only economic returns are being considered. These are things that are contained in the management contract, but perhaps we need to tighten up a number of things in a subsequent management contract. I'm absolutely not against that. You also noted that BIO has a number of minimum investments and cannot therefore invest in very small projects or even in microfinance. That's correct. That is also because BIO would, of course, have very high transaction costs. If you want BIO to invest directly in very small projects, you should take into account that the costs of evaluating such projects are relatively high in BIO. This would mean that public costs would be excessive in relation to what can be invested. So indirect investment is being used for this, which you yourself mentioned. They are sometimes called fund of funds. There is investment in funds, which then continue to invest. That's normal. We note that other investment funds from other countries often use this method. One final point concerns the question of who is entitled to benefit from projects or from funding of BIO. That is a relatively broad definition today and is, of course, also a responsibility of the board of directors. We must also give BIO confidence. BIO is given a certain legal framework which is specified in a management contract. For me, a law has to be general enough. It cannot be the practice of a law to introduce all kinds of very specific elements. This means that a law, firstly, becomes virtually unworkable and, secondly, loses a certain amount of timelessness. We can now place some current concerns in the law, but in that case the law must be amended almost every two or three years, which is not the right method. A management contract is a much better instrument for this. The responsibility of directors and of a board of directors is an important element. Mr van der Maelen, we did indeed have a disagreement in committee, and I note that we still have that disagreement. I have mentioned a lot of things in committee which are also contained in the report, but I would certainly like to mention them again. It is quite clear that the mission of the BIO is to ensure that the derailments of the past, with investments through tax havens, no longer happen. We no longer accept constructions with illegal or illicit financial flows that are intended solely to avoid paying taxes that have to be paid. We have had problems with this in the past. In my view, the current law does not open the door to this. The current law lists 52 countries within which interventions may take place. You're talking about Panama. Panama is not included in the list of 52 intervention countries. You mentioned a KB you didn't find. I think it is about the KB of 1 March 2016, with a list of 30 countries that today have no or very low levels of taxation. It is very clear that these 30 countries should not be used in any way. The countries on that list are not among the 52 intervention countries. That's an additional bolt that exists today. Why are we opening up to the list of the Global Fund, which the OECD would make? The Global Fund initiative involves asking certain countries why they would not enter into negotiations with the OECD to be approved as countries that do respect the rules. Those countries are not obliged to do so. Many of the 52 intervention countries have not yet made this effort. Does that mean that these countries today allow all kinds of constructions that we would not accept? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I take as an example a country that wants to interact with the OECD and join the process in order to be sure. Suppose, according to the OECD, that country is not yet in order at first sight, but has a period of five years to get things in order. It would be an unlikely sign of distrust for us if these countries were no longer able to work with us as they have taken the step to speak to the OECD. None of these countries will then take the step to the OECD, because they know that they may be thrown out. I therefore believe that we should give the countries that want to put themselves in order the openness to do so, knowing that there is a lock on the door, namely Article 3quinquies, § 2, which clearly states that the BIO has the task of ensuring that there is no cooperation with countries where constructions can be set up which lead to tax evasion. In my view, therefore, there are absolutely enough locks to ensure that the mistakes of the past are not repeated. I might make the same remark as the one I made to Mrs Van Hoof. We can try to clarify everything in detail in the law, but I believe that this will remove a certain timeless element. A law must use general principles. A management contract should be more precise. A Management Board should also ensure that its responsibilities can be taken into account. It would be very bizarre to take out countries that are taking the step to put things right today. You propose to create openness for the least developed countries and to remove the middle income countries. What that would actually mean would be illustrated by examples such as Ghana and Cameroon, two countries on their way to becoming middle-income countries. Your amendment would no longer be possible in those countries, and I think it would be difficult to justify the total exclusion of countries such as Ghana or Cameroon on this basis. The fact that countries in the least developed category disappear and become middle-income countries is a good thing. I would therefore maintain openness in this area and, on a case-by-case basis, consider whether there is a problem or not. Mr Hellings, you talk a lot about family farming. I also think it has enormous potential. But it should not be forgotten that in developing countries, more than two thirds of people working in family farming are not in a position of self-sufficiency. This family farming will evolve into a form of small and medium-sized enterprise, which will try to increase its productivity or even export. I think it's a pretty good thing. You say that these funds should not be earmarked for purely industrial agriculture. Among the criteria that BIO uses to evaluate projects are food security and rural development and fight against climate change and preservation of natural resources. These criteria contain enough reassuring evidence about the non-subsidization of an agricultural activity that would have a negative impact on food security, climate change or local economic development. These criteria, which try to frame investments well. You say that we must limit ourselves to family farming, but first we must know how to define it. Let's be clear! The intention is that this family farming will evolve towards professionalization, more productivity, an expansion of scale. Very small-scale agriculture is the best guarantee to keep farmers in poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u166	Everyone's point of view!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u167	In this chamber, it is better for everyone to keep their point of view. Otherwise, we would be in the same party. Maybe it wouldn't be a good thing. Mrs Grovonius, your comment on the evaluation criteria and on food safety has been widely discussed. I come to the information that we are passing on to Parliament. As you know, a report is made to the minister. It is forwarded to Parliament and is open for evaluation. As I have told you in the past, disclosing all the elements of each investment would, in many situations, lead to the cancellation of the investment. These are investments in private companies. If their amount and nature are made public, it will often put companies in which to invest in a difficult situation. This would make public a great deal of information that they do not intend to make public. This information is available to the Boards of Directors. That's a good thing. But making this detail of information public is not done in other countries either. I hope that I have responded to most of the comments. I believe that the BIO is a particularly useful tool and I am convinced that we are now adapting the possibilities of BIO to today's world. We also give some confidence to the BIO. If we try to clarify everything in laws, it will ensure that BIO has no flexibility whatsoever. We have a good team at the BIO, we have a board of directors, who should be able to take responsibility. I believe that the proposed draft is absolutely in line with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u168	Mr President, I hear the Minister's plea that it should all be in the management agreement, while we are not sufficiently detailed with the law. That is where we differ. Mr Minister, I am taking Article 1a, as amended by your draft law. This means that an intervention country of the BIO is a country belonging to the categories defined by the OECD Development Assistance Committee, namely the least developed countries, the low-income countries, the low-income countries, the lower-income countries, the higher-income countries. That is potentially more than the 52 countries you have just mentioned. With regard to the new Article 3quinquies, I take the fellow Members of the Finance Committee as witnesses. We heard the delegation from Panama here last week. He told us that Panama is joining the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes. Because of the simple fact that Panama accedes to it and the exception you introduce into the law, Panama can act as an intervention country. This also applies to other countries which may be less dangerous, for example Lebanon, although there are doubts about this. Thanks to your change, all these countries will be able to act as intervention countries or as intermediate structures that co-finance BIO activities. Our amendment aims to limit the exception to the least developed countries and the low-income countries. Then you will also have Ghana and Cameroon with you, because, as you yourself said, these are not middle income countries. You'll have them with you. We want careful legislation. We have learned from the past that if legislation is made too sloppy, there are always forces trying to abuse the unclear legislation. We have seen what has been done through the BIO, through the Seychelles and other tax havens. If we want to close that door permanently, vote in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u169	Mr President, I shall be brief. Mr Van der Maelen, you refer to Article 1a (2) of the Rules of Procedure. That's a theoretical list. There's a theoretical list in the law. Then there is a list of 52 countries, which is an intervention list. That intervention list is a filtering of the theoretical list and the management contract is therefore very strict. The example of Panama, which you always cite, is therefore irrelevant, because if you put all the pieces together, it is not possible that it will happen. We disagree there, but that's okay. I understand that you will not approve the bill, which I regret, but perhaps next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u170	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u171	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1865/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1865/5) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u172	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u173	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Article 9. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 8, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u174	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u175	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Brecht Vermeulen, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u176	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u177	Mr President, football must remain a pleasure. It is up to us to refine the tools to prevent the facts that can disturb the festive and family run of the matches. The 2016-17 season will be marked by a restructuring of the competition around two professional divisions and three amateur divisions. In this context, on June 2, our Assembly approved an amendment to the Football Act to bring the state legal order into line with the football legal order. Meanwhile, relevant remarks have been made by police officers and police areas. One question remained unnoticed, namely that certain clubs whose supporters are exposed to risky behaviour were now outside the scope of measures to prevent and punish disturbing events. This situation should therefore be rectified before the start of the season set for 29 July next. The Committee on the Interior considered this proposal at its meeting on 12 July on the proposal of Mr Vermeulen. No objection was expressed. I have had the opportunity to stress the need to make such an amendment to the Football Act, so that it offers the appropriate tools to the competent law enforcement agencies. However, an in-depth assessment of the Football Act is still required by the members of the Commission. It started on Monday with the hearings of the Pro League and the Football Cell of the Internal SPF. We will also pay attention to the additional workload and costs that an extension of the scope of the Football Act may entail. The whole proposal was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u178	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u179	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1955/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1955/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u180	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u181	By letter received on 6 July 2016, Ms Camille Dieu resigned as a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate'. By letter received on 6 July 2016, Ms Camille Dieu resigned as a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former Members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate". In accordance with Article 10 of the Law of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the Chamber should provide for a replacement for the remainder of its term of office. Pursuant to section 10 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the Chamber must provide for its replacement for the remainder of its term of office. Following the resignation of Mrs Camille Dieu, the Commission has only three female members out of twelve. Since no more than two thirds of the members of the same sex are allowed, the Chamber should appoint a new female French-speaking member for the category "Former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate." Following the resignation of Mrs Camille Dieu, the Commission has only three out of twelve female members. Since no more than two thirds of the members may be of the same sex, the House must appoint a new French-speaking female member for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate". In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2016, I propose that you publish a call to women French-speaking candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" to replace Ms Camille Dieu. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2016, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Monitor an appeal to French-speaking women candidates for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate", in place of Mrs Camille Dieu. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u182	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u183	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 5 July 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 5 July 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 156/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 156/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Philippe Pivin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put the motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u184	Mr President, as a democrat, I am very much in favour of referenda. We are putting forward proposals on this subject every legislative period. We have recently seen, as a result of the Brexit and the referendum in the Netherlands on the Ukraine Treaty, how good it can be if a people can express a direct opinion on important issues. The organisation of referenda alone has led to a month of debate and the debate on these important issues is also enriched and deepened. We have also recently heard that Hungary is planning a referendum on 2 October on EU refugee quotas. For the time being, we can only dream of the people being able to express their views directly on these important matters. I interviewed the Prime Minister because he was in favour of referenda in the newspaper. He repeated that that is his personal opinion. With our motion of recommendation, we are looking for supporters in his government who would support the Prime Minister's personal opinion so that we can finally work on the possibility of referenda in this country as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u185	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u186	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 5 July 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal of 5 July 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 151/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Véronique Caprasse; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and by Messrs. Dirk Janssens and Damien Thiéry. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 151/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Véronique Caprasse; - a simple motion was tabled by Miss Yoleen Van Camp and by Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Damien Thiéry. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of health care needs requires high-level competences as described in Directive 2013/55. The agreed deadline for the transposition of this Directive expired on 18 January 2016 and the file is still blocked. The European Commission could therefore sue the Belgian State. However, the vast majority of professional associations in the nursing sector, as well as the world of higher education in nursing care, want the requirements of the directive to be met as closely as possible, namely: the introduction of a single title for the training of a bachelor's nurse; the introduction of a single title as a qualified intermediary that can meet the criteria of the directive on a higher vocational training certificate. We regret that the Minister of Public Health regularly appreciates issues related to the design of health care management developed in the north of the country. This is the case for nurses as well as psychomotorists and psychotherapists. Like many nursing associations, we do not understand how the training of a patented nurse can be recognised as a European training of general care nurse in three or three and a half years, whereas for the same reasons, EU Directive 2013/55, bachelor's training must be increased to four years. We believe that the federal state must also comply with the directive or be reminded of order by Europe and must set an example. That is why I have tabled a motion for a recommendation to reserve access to the profession of nurse responsible for general care for new graduate nurses and nurses and to determine a single bachelor's degree equivalent to the European title of nurse as well as to establish another single title as a qualified intermediary meeting the European criteria of the Higher Certificate of Vocational Training. I shall therefore vote against the simple motion tabled by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u188	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u189	Yes 83 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u190	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1911/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1911/5) Reason for abstinence? Justification for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u191	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1948/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1948/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u192	Vote on Amendment No 42 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert recital J (n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a recital J(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 57 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert recital K (n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a recital K(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert recital L (n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a recital L(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Demir voted against. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck on request 1. (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck in point 1. (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 52 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 1.1(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 1.1(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 53 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Vote on Amendment No Catherine Fonck's 30 on requests 2 and 3. (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Catherine Fonck in points 2 and 3. (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 58 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 55 by Véronique Caprasse on request 2. (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Véronique Caprasse in point 2. (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 34 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Karin Jiroflée cs on request 2. (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Karin Jiroflée cs in point 2. (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 50 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Vote on Amendment No 31 from Catherine Fonck to requests 4 and 9. (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Catherine Fonck in points 4 and 9. (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 4/1(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 4/1(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 53 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Catherine Fonck on requests 5, 6 and 7. (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Catherine Fonck in points 5, 6 and 7. (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Vote on Amendment No 48 from Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 6/1(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 6/1(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 57 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Van der Maelen voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 49 by Karin Jiroflée cs inserting a point 8.d(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 8.d(n). (406/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u193	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Catherine Fonck on request 10. (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Catherine Fonck on point 10. (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 53 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Özen and Mr Demeyer voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Karin Jiroflée cs on request 10. (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Karin Jiroflée cs in point 10. (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck introducing a request 10/1(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/1(n). (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck introducing a request 10/1(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/1(n). (406/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u194	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 10/1(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/1(n). (406/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u195	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 10/2(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/2(n). (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 57 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Daerden voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 38 from Catherine Fonck to insert a request 10/3(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/3(n). (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 51 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Laaouej voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck introducing a request 10/4(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/4(n). (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Lanjri voted against. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Catherine Fonck introducing a request 10/5(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/5(n). (406/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Catherine Fonck introducing a request 10/6(n). (406/8) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Catherine Fonck to insert a point 10/6(n). (406/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u196	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 50 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 12(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 12(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[55]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 51 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 13(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 13(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 52 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 14(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 14(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 53 from Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 15(n). (406/9) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert a point 15(n). (406/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 54 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Lutgen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 87 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (406/10) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (406/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u198	Vote on Amendment No 41 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 1/1(n). (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 1/1(n). (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 32 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 36 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 136 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Barbara Pas to insert an Article 2/1(n). (1864/8) Vote on amendment No 37 by Barbara Not tending to insert an article 2/1(n). (1864/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u199	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 48 of Éric Massin leaving Article 3. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No. 48 by Eric Massin to delete Article 3. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 34 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 59 by Evita Willaert cs for the deletion of Article 3. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Evita Willaert cs to delete Article 3. (1864/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u200	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 60 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 4. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 4. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 32 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 61 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 5. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 5. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 34 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 49 of Éric Massin to Article 5. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Eric Massin to Article 5. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 50 from Éric Massin to Article 5. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Eric Massin to Article 5. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 23 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 51 from Éric Massin to Article 6. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Eric Massin to Article 6. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 52 from Éric Massin to Article 6. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Eric Massin to Article 6. (1864/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 36) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Catherine Fonck on Article 6. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Catherine Fonck to Article 6. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 9 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 46 by Catherine Fonck on Article 6. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Catherine Fonck to Article 6. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 54 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr. Pivin voted against. Vote on Amendment No 57 from Éric Massin cs to Article 6. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Eric Massin cs to Article 6. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs Cassart-Mailleux voted against. Vote on Amendment No 53 from Éric Massin to Article 6. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Eric Massin to Article 6. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Bogaert voted against. Vote on Amendment No 54 from Eric Massin to the exclusion of Article 7. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Eric Massin to delete Article 7. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 47 by Catherine Fonck on article 7. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms Jadin voted against. Mr Metsu and Mr Raskin voted against. Mrs Muylle and Mr Van den Bergh also voted against. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Catherine Fonck on article 7. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and the Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 38 by Barbara Pas to insert an Article 7/1(n). (1864/8) Vote on amendment No 38 by Barbara Not tending to insert an article 7/1(n). (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 134 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Poncelet voted against. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Barbara Pas to insert an article 7/2(n). (1864/8) Vote on amendment No. 39 by Barbara Not tending to insert an article 7/2(n). (1864/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u201	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Barbara Pas to insert an Article 8/1(n). (1864/8) Vote on amendment No. 40 by Barbara Not tending to insert an article 8/1(n). (1864/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u202	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 55 by Eric Massin on Article 10. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Eric Massin to Article 10. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 34 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 62 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 10. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 62 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 10. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 34 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Fernandez Fernadez voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Catherine Fonck on article 10. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Catherine Fonck to Article 10. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes [[20]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 56 from Eric Massin to Article 10. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No. 56 by Eric Massin to Article 10. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and the Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Catherine Fonck on article 13. (1864/8) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Catherine Fonck to Article 13. (1864/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 56 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 58 from Eric Massin cs to Article 13. (1864/9) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Eric Massin cs to Article 13. (1864/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes 54 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 81 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1864/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1864/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u204	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Fatma Pehlivan cs on Article 9. (1865/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Fatma Pehlivan cs to Article 9. (1865/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes 51 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 53 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1865/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1865/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u206	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1955/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1955/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-14-54-plenair-ip120x.u207	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 18 July 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of July 18, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, July 19, 2016 at 10.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 19 July 2016 at 10 a.m.
