ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u3	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2183/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2183/3) The draft law has 35 articles. The bill has 35 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u4	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u5	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Ms Evita Willaert and Mr Jan Spooren, referred to their written report. Mr Eric Massin, who promised me to be very short, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u6	Mr President, you are not betraying my thoughts or my words. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen – for those present in this Chamber, because it is true that at this late hour it is beginning to become complicated – I am not going to dwell on the draft which has already been discussed in committee, but to go back to two points. The first concerns the 23 amendments tabled just ten minutes before voting, in committee, article by article and on the whole draft. The quality of parliamentary work does not benefit at all. The second element relates to article 28 of the bill containing various provisions, which confirms a royal decree. We informed the minister that we did not have this order. Although it was stated that the provisions were confirmed, we did not know the content of the provisions without a statement. However, we were asked to vote on the royal decree, indicating that there were few amendments. So I looked for it, and sometimes we find it. So I found the text of the royal decree. Contrary to the information given to parliamentarians, who had to vote for a provision without knowing what it contained – which is also not very correct – this royal decree is not trivial. Significant changes are included. It would have been correct to pass it on to parliamentarians, whether in committee or, if not, in plenary. The first of these changes results in a change in the reference period for the amounts to which the beneficiaries are entitled, whether they receive an incapacity for work allowance or an unemployment benefit. This means that the reference period is the last day of the second quarter preceding the occurrence of the risk. Indeed, any wage reduction is not taken into account, as is any wage increase. This important element could have been discussed. The second point which seems to me to be even more important is the exclusion of bonuses and benefits if they are independent of the number of days worked. This may therefore lead to a change in the amount that may be collected by persons with disabilities or when they are unemployed. The third point is that overtime will only be taken into account if it is less than or equal to 10% of the salary in place of regular overtime (which was the old reference). This means that a number of overtime hours are not taken into account at all. Since this is not insignificant, it shows (but it could have been clearly announced) that the most vulnerable groups, the sick and the job seekers, are being attacked. Based on these elements, since we had abstained in committee, I would like to point out that our group, after learning of this royal order, which involves amendments that are far from negligible, will vote against this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u7	Firstly, the opinion of the Council of State on the Royal Decree was immediately forwarded to the committee secretariat, even during the discussions. Mrs De Coninck also asked if the decision was already signed by the King. This happened one day before the committee meeting, on 13 December 2016. So we could not deliver it earlier, because it had not yet been signed by the King. Mr Massin raised a number of points such as the reference period and the number of days worked, which will go from 120 to 180. All these issues were discussed during the discussion in committee, in response to the questions put by Mr Massin and Mrs De Coninck. They want to spout fog here, but there is really no problem with the implementation of the design.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u8	Mr Massin, you have made some remarks about parliamentary work. The minister is not responsible for this, but I understand and recognize the merits of some of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u9	Mr President, the chairman of the committee is not here, but she also said at the committee meeting that it should not be customary to table amendments late. This was done by a very late advice from a number of stakeholders to the committee members, including the social partners. That advice had to be there first. There were also many technical amendments. In any case, I understand that, because I have been a Member of Parliament for many years. In any case, this should be avoided as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u10	In my view and rightly so, we agree on this. You'll never have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u11	Mr President, I thank you for confirming that this should not remain exceptional – which would mean that this could happen again – but that it should remain a unique fact. The remark was made. I hope that the House will take this into account, including members of the majority. Madam Minister, I remind you that I have been, in addition to you, a Member of Parliament for the majority. I also know the difficulties that may arise, I do not disagree. But to receive amendments ten minutes before voting time is not possible. Then I hear your explanations. We have been asked to vote for a text that confirms a royal decree without having that text in hand. Although the advice of the Council of State is then received and questions have been raised, it cannot be analysed in the absence of a document. It is obviously not respectful either. Furthermore, as I told you, Madam Minister, there was no date for the Royal Order. I heard that "it was impossible because there was the opinion of the Council of State, that the decree had not yet been signed by the King, etc." I will, but this is not normal in the context of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u12	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u13	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2210/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2210/4) The draft law contains 47 articles. The bill has 47 articles. For the sake of the report, I would like to draw your attention to Article 36, on which an amendment has been tabled and adopted. However, the amendment of the article is not reflected in the document due to a technical defect. Article 36, former Article 28, is all the way to the end: "with effect on 1 October 2016'. That's gonna be deleted. It is good that we take note of that. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u14	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u15	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Gautier Calomne and Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot, rapporteurs, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u16	Mr President, Minister, the specific methods of research are measures which, by definition, infringe on the fundamental rights of citizens. The aim of this text is to modernise our legislation so that it is adapted to technological developments, since it is necessary to improve our legislative arsenal in order to enable investigators to have the legal tools to carry out their tasks. Admittedly, the exercise is difficult, if not sometimes dangerous, given the necessary and fragile balance to be struck between public security needs and the preservation of our fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to privacy and the rights of defence. The issue is both simple and crucial. Does your initiative modernise investigative tools without jeopardizing the rights and freedoms of citizens? We have had the opportunity to hear the Human Rights League and the orders of the bars in the hearings. All of us warned. Some did not chew their words, speaking of a police state to which we risk going if sanctions and protection mechanisms were not organized. I would like to recall that on the occasion of Human Rights Day, some personalities expressed their concern about certain projects in the fight against terrorism. Let us not fall into the trap set by the enemies of democracy by legislating under the blow of emotion! Minister, let us be clear, I mean, like you, fighting crime and terrorism, but unlike you, I am not prepared to sacrifice our individual freedoms. I am not prepared to support a text without any safeguards, a text that increases the deadline for observation to three months and gives law enforcement officers the opportunity to enter a citizen's home without his or her knowledge and collect objects. Nor am I prepared to support a text that introduces an extremely flexible regime for Internet infiltration, especially since control would be limited, on the pretext that it is far too heavy. I am not prepared to grant the possibility of searching a computer system seized, until the applications are opened, without the control of the investigating judge or even the King's prosecutor. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this text, Minister, must be balanced. Regrettably, this balance is not respected, since the text introduces disproportionate interference in the lives of citizens without providing the necessary guarantees to prevent possible drifts. Such methods should be reserved for dangerous crime, justifying such interference in the fundamental rights of citizens. We are far from the necessary efficiency. Moreover, it is well known that these schemes are aimed at using very costly techniques for the State, which is already struggling to honour its debts. Beyond the fact that these measures are ultra-attacks on privacy, the project undermines the figure of the investigating judge by providing for a dangerous shift in his powers towards the prosecution and the police. The latter's powers will, moreover, be considerably strengthened while judicial control will be weakened. This is a trend that has developed with potpourri II which greatly expands the powers of the King's attorney. But – as we know – the investigating judge is the guarantor of the fundamental rights of citizens. Unlike the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is impartial and independent. He is not bound by criminal policy directives and does not receive an order from a superior. Nor will we forget, Minister, the last-minute amendments tabled by the government, leaving the investigating judge out of the game for a pre-set period of 72 hours in case of flagrante delicto delicto terroristo. This is another attack on the powers of the investigating judge. But that is consistent with the overall philosophy of your bill. Let us act in case of flagrante delicto, okay! But providing for an invariable 72-hour period during which measures against privacy may be ordered by the King's prosecutor is a disproportionate measure. We do not see the need to introduce a deadline when the King's prosecutor is still empowered to act as long as the situation of flagrante delicto persists. Minister, we cannot accept everything in the name of the fight against terrorism and we cannot forget our fundamental rights. Nor is it without consequences for the rights of the parties, which are being diminished. The information does not in fact offer the same rights to victims and suspected persons as the investigation, including no access to the file, no control of the indictment chamber, no possibility of requesting further investigation. This nibble will also require more control by the lawyer over the prosecutor's office and therefore investment by him during the investigation, which will inevitably have financial consequences for the defendant. What will it be for the poorest, the least well-off? This is once again a hindrance to justice, because we're going to ask for more action by their lawyers. There is also a discussion of the professional secrecy of lawyers and doctors, which is being addressed by providing that the data that have been listened to may in the future be consulted by certain categories of persons. Again, this is a mere regression, which will certainly have consequences in terms of health and legal protection, since to tackle professional secrecy is to weaken the indispensable link of trust between the citizen and the professionals concerned. This bill will therefore include a demarcation of the powers of the investigating judge, a set of measures against privacy, without judicial review, without safeguards, and an infringement of professional secrecy. In conclusion, minister, this is a bill that pre-empts our individual freedoms and is truly a flagrant regression for our rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u17	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone will agree that it is necessary to adapt the Code of Criminal Investigation to technological developments. Terrorists or other criminals do not need laws to adapt their way of acting when, of course, our police or judicial world needs this very useful and necessary framework of the law. But it is not, minister, that we can do everything and anything. If adapting the legislation is useful, it is important to see whether the texts you are proposing do not go beyond the objective and go beyond what is being sought. I think the texts you have proposed go beyond the objective. I think that they are a new and ultimately disproportionate attack - as several actors have said - on the fundamental rights of people who are another constant that we must have in mind when we legislate in relation to specific research techniques, such as those on which we are working. Finally, as my colleague has said right now, we are observing in your document, Mr.Minister - this is becoming more and more recurrent - a slip that is dangerous and unacceptable to me and my group. It is a matter of shifting the powers of the investigating judge towards those of the King's prosecutor without finally having a coherent and comprehensive view of what will ultimately remain, in your various reforms, the role of this investigating judge. With regard to the criticism of your bill, the first concerns respect for privacy. The Privacy Commission itself sets out the principle that the balance must be struck between privacy on the one hand and the right of every citizen to safety, security or physical integrity on the other. What she said, she said at the time your original text was filed. It could consider that little or no, what was in question was, if any, admissible, but it was not aware of the amendments that were tabled during the course of work by the majority. I would point out that, in the eyes of the European Court and its jurisprudence, interference in privacy must necessarily be proportional in a democratic society. This is a difficult exercise to do, but interference that is considered arbitrary must be avoided. The European Court of Human Rights regularly recalls that any national provision must be sufficiently clear and precise to indicate to all and adequately under what circumstances it empowers public authorities to resort to secret research measures. This is the main part of your text that we are analysing this evening: it is these famous secret searches that will be easier tomorrow because without the permission of an investigating judge, either against the opinion of the Commission on the Protection of Privacy or by undermining professional secrecy. I will start with this last point, Minister. In your bill, there is the possibility of a secret search in the computer system, applied to lawyers and doctors (cf. Article 90g). This article is, in my view, problematic because it provides that data which are covered by professional secrecy - which is the cornerstone of the relationship of trust and of our right which must exist between professionals as particular as doctors or lawyers, for example, and their clients - will be kept at the transplants, certainly separately, and that it will therefore be possible, subsequently, to apply article 90 septies, § 6, of the Code of Criminal Investigation. This is a serious breach of the professional secrecy of lawyers and doctors who find no reasonable and acceptable justification in your text and the explanatory statement. It seems to me that communications covered by professional secrecy cannot and must not be recorded in a record, nor a fortiori be kept in order to be used ex post facto. Another element that can be found in your project is this shift, which I call dangerous, of the powers of the investigating judge in favour of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The bill you are proposing is not the first. Others before it, and others in the future, have been and will be in the same direction. The Human Rights League, as well as the Committee on the Protection of Privacy, was not aware of the amendments that were tabled during the debate in committee. It already recognized, at the hearings that we conducted in committee, "that this project is part of a heavy trend which is making an increasingly clear and abundant shift in the prerogatives of the investigating judge, a cardinal actor in our criminal procedure, since he is independent and impartial, and that he is conducting his investigation on behalf of the prosecution and the police forces, which are not independent, and whose legal mission is fundamentally different since it is aimed at the investigation and punishment of the offences and their perpetrators. This slide is very challenging. He also appeals to the Council of State." Yes, minister, in the course of our work, you responded, and as usual, you said it was wrong to say that the investigating judge was going to lose his powers. They are reoriented, you say, so that they can be interested in the essentials; even in research methods, they will retain certain prerogatives to authorize or supervise these measures. We must read this bill in parallel with the abolition, or rather with the drastic reduction, which you are announcing, of the role of investigating judge in our judicial order. This evolution of the role of investigating judge risks breaking down the fragile, albeit complex, structure, which aims to strike a balance between the different prerogatives of the actors involved, in order to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of the citizen in general, and that of the principle of proportionality, legitimizing interference in these rights. You repeat to us that you cannot be blamed for the removal of the investigating judge because the latter's consent will always remain the same in the event of searches, telephones, and that every individual measure that may be taken must be particularly motivated. You'll allow me to doubt that. I don't follow you in this way of formulating things. The measures decided on in your project go too far. For example, they go back to carrying out searches – even if it does not bear the name – without a warrant or control of the investigating magistrate. That's what we call secret searches in computer systems. The President of the investigating judges has again stated before our Committee on Terrorist Attacks that they will be constantly called upon to take decisions and that they will have to do so without having control of the files since they will no longer be on the initiative and follow-up of the investigations. In terms of listening, search, observation or infiltration, the investigating judge must remain the judge who orders them. It's true that suspects often change phones all the time. But in the model you propose, the investigating judge, who is no longer the basis of the investigation but whose intervention will be sought whenever it is necessary, will have to stop working on his files, get a minimum knowledge of what is happening and give the required authorizations. It will end up growing under administrative duties while your will is precisely, to the extent possible, to discharge all actors in the judicial world from these tasks where they waste their time because they only give authorizations or visas that are of pure form. Now that's what you're going to propose with your new system. In fact, every time an investigating judge is required, he or she will not know the substance of the case. I'm not sure we're getting more efficient, more time and more money. Thus the investigating judge will not systematically interfere with any significant gain. If the respective roles of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge are thus called into question. I hope that this redistribution will take place within the framework of a comprehensive reform on which we can decide once we have known all the ins and outs; but not, as you have unfortunately taken the habit, Minister, by partial and progressive encroachment. In this case, we are witnessing a real disconnection of the powers of the investigating judge for the benefit of the prosecutor's office without any more effective control. His functions are insidiously snacked. Clearly, that is what constitutes the fabric of your action and your political will. Advocates.be said: "We find that the investigating judge becomes a kind of instrument of a criminal procedure which he no longer controls". That was the analysis we made at the beginning of the committee work. They revealed that you were not satisfied with these initial measurements, but that you loaded the boat along the way. Amendments were tabled by the majority with a view to granting the prosecutor more powers in the context of specific research methods: 72 hours in the case of a flagrante delicto, without the intervention of an investigating judge. Not only the period, but also the scope are considerably extended. Fortunately, we have had the opportunity to send these amendments to the Council of State. It has nevertheless confirmed that research in a computer system constitutes a serious interference with the right to privacy. This project transfers important competences from the investigating judge to the Public Prosecutor's Office in this area. These prerogatives, however, occupy an essential place in the monitoring of the proportionality which the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court carry out in this case. In response to these various remarks and observations, you considered, Mr.Minister, that it was neither healthy nor normal for us to intend a kind of trial in the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis that it was not independent or, in any case, not as independent as an investigating judge. Of course, the prosecutor's office is independent, but it does not have the same independence as an investigating judge who is investigating the prosecution and the defence. This will end up being a dirty formula, but it is good to repeat it before it disappears. I think you cannot deny that the prosecutor's office is organized in such a way that there is a hierarchy and that the Minister of Justice, in the end, also has authority over the prosecutor's office, if only through the positive injunction. Consequently, allowing the King's prosecutor to order, in case of flagrante delicto, all the measures referred to in articles 88bis and 90ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation without confirmation by an investigating judge, is to go beyond the limits of just proportionality between the damage and the actions of terrorism that we intend to combat in relation to the issues of respect for the rights of defence and/or privacy. We simply ask that, beyond the prosecutor's office, a check be organised. And who better than an investigating judge can do that? The amendment also increased the power of the King's prosecutor to try to prevent further attacks. It may be admitted that this measure is reasonably justified, but the real question to be asked is whether this justification is relevant for each of the terrorist offences provided for in Article 137, §2 and §3 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, in particular in the context of §3 where the threat itself is considered a terrorist offence but cannot be equated purely and simply with an attack that would justify the action that the King's prosecutor can take. The majority also wanted the 72-hour period to begin at the time of the commission of the offence, which again left a broad discretion and action to the King's prosecutor without the investigating judge being required to intervene. This, Minister, is the essence of my criticism. However, in the event that the criteria you provide for the procedure of action, particularly on the part of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the police authorities, were not complied with, no penalty of nullity is imposed on these breaches. This criticism was relayed by the various actors we heard during our work. You have swept away this criticism by deciding that public opinion does not admit radical nullities – certainly, I can understand it – but public opinion does not always understand all the archanes of law that protect society and citizens and that, at some point, can protect those who consider them unnecessary or useful. You have also told us that the Antigone case law is largely sufficient to consider nullities if the need arises. I think it would have been essential to provide for this sanction of legal nullity if the conditions necessary for research, which you propose to us by your bill in the computer system "secret research", were not respected. This was also a remark made by the representative of the OVB. As for the rule of law, in the absence of a penalty of nullity, the police are free to act without complying with the legal requirement. My group does not wish to be associated with such a drift. Therefore, Minister, we will certainly not support you in this text despite the initial desire to adapt the capacity of our police forces and the judiciary to the new technologies to which mafia circles are better trained. If we can understand this objective, you have taken advantage of this bill to go far beyond it and to consider opening doors that lead to abuses that jeopardize our rule of law and proportionality between respect for fundamental interests such as respect for privacy and the protection of public or physical security and integrity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the general criticism of the excessive shift of jurisdiction to the prosecutor's office to the detriment of the investigating judge, I believe that the bill contains only one element transferring part of the jurisdiction to the prosecutor's office, namely, non-secret research into a computer system. In the latter, the movements only concern the extension to the cloud or to external servers. It is only the possible extension without false additional key that is targeted. To this, we must add the amendment tabled, which concerns the very particular situation of a flagrante delicto of terrorist attack. We have proposed the creation of a temporary competence for the prosecution to order a telephone call. These are two important changes that I do not want to minimize. But I really don't see how we can talk about a "general movement" in the bill to transfer powers and control to the King's prosecutor to the detriment of the investigating judge. I know, Mr Brotcorne, that you are not in favour of a change in the complex balance, dating back to the 19th century, between the investigating judge, on the one hand, and the prosecutor's office, on the other. We have had a lot of discussions on this. Let us be clear: for the time being, there is no text on the table on this subject. But in any event, I want to point out to you that my purpose is that the investigating judge, who would allow certain special investigative means in a particular investigation, would always be the same, so that he can become familiar with the case, perhaps better than now, because he will have more time and more distance to try the case. I didn't want to use the word "independence." I said "distance." In relation to other criticisms that you have made, Mr Brotcorne and Mrs Özen, with regard to the computer system seized, which for the investigation or the search would become an autonomous competence of the police, in this case it is no more than a consolidation in the law of the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation. In its judgment of 11 February 2015, the Commission considers that "the exploitation of the memory of a mobile phone, including messages stored in the form of SMS, is a measure resulting from the seizure, which may be carried out as part of information without any formalities other than those provided for in that investigation". Is it justified to create additional possibilities for the prosecution as to the right of scrutiny of the King's prosecutor? Yes, to the extent that closed objects can be opened. An application for a search may result, but with the knowledge of the suspect. If there are no dependents, in the exercise of this right of look, things that are not found can always be used as exculpatory elements by which a search becomes superfluous. As regards the extension of the period of observation to three months, practice has shown that the period of one month is extended in 65 % of the cases by the investigating judge with the result that it involves administrative problems and burdens. The aim would be to establish a maximum period of three months. As a first step, the investigating judge may decide to take a shorter period and grant a period of only two months or six weeks, for example. I would like to conclude with scientific progress that could inform our reflection in the definitive Code of Criminal Investigation. I recently attended the defense of a thesis, in Leuven, on all forms of investigation. The doctoral student suggested the use of a generic investigative term. We tried to go a little in that direction, but we were afraid to sin against the principle of legality and insisted on each type of investigation concerned. In terms of proportionality, on which you strongly insist, the body that should allow the investigation could be better assessed if the investigation was defined in a very generic way rather than in relation to an object. In addition, a generic definition would make it easier for us to follow technological developments. Indeed, at present, whenever technology changes, we are obliged to amend the Code of Criminal Investigation. Anyway, it's just an idea I had when I read Charlotte Conings' doctoral thesis. I would also strongly recommend reading this thesis, if you have a little patience and a little time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u19	Mr Minister, I would like once again to make a comment which I have already had the opportunity to address to you, on many occasions, at our numerous committee meetings. I do not agree with you when you say that there is only one piece of slip from the investigating judge to the prosecutor's office or the police. Despite your successive pots, there's always only one slippery element. If you want to change the philosophy of our judiciary, I don't have a problem with that. But in this case, let us take the time to discuss it and to discuss in depth the vision that we want to give to the investigating judge and the slide that we want and to what power. There has been an expansion of mini-education, etc. That's why I'm talking about "grigging." It is the way of doing things that is not healthy at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u20	Minister, we have a little feeling that you do not dare to take on the situation you are considering for the investigating judge. It is true that in this potpourri there may be only one element of sliding powers or powers from the investigating judge to the prosecutor's office, but there has been some in your previous potpourri. What you are accused of, Mr. Minister, is indeed, by successive touches, to nibble this power of the investigating judge without having an overall view. You are telling us and you have just repeated that there is no text that says that the investigating judge will disappear. Your experts have already been heard in relation to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Investigation, which envisage the establishment of the investigating judge rather than the investigating judge. So, somewhere, there's political will. There's a lead wire. The complaint that we regularly address to you in committee is why we do not deal with this problem once in its entirety to find out what we are going to. Perhaps, at the end of our work, we will say that the proposed option can be followed, but today we do not confront it. We go in successive keys without knowing exactly – and you repeat it to us in the envi – whether or not, in the end, we will move the figure of the investigating judge. If the investigating judge remains what he is today but is taken away from him a whole series of competences in successive texts, what will be left of it? If you want to go to the investigating judge or even to the total disappearance of the investigative judge's figure, what you are proposing here may be meaningless in a year or two, if you go to the end of your reform projects. All legislation will have to be reviewed. Too often, compared to your proposed changes that you might be able to follow, we do not have this overview to be able to discuss them correctly and consistently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u21	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u22	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1966/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1966/10) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending several amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code with a view to improving the special detection methods and certain investigative methods relating to Internet and electronic and telecommunications and establishing a database of voting prints." The title has been changed by the commission to "a bill amending various parts of the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Criminal Code, with a view to improving specific research methods and investigative measures concerning the Internet, electronic communications and telecommunications and creating a data bank of voice fingerprints". The draft law has 33 articles. The bill has 33 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u23	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u24	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1036: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter - 1178: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh Georges Dallemagne, Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u25	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u26	I intend to state my report in its entirety, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u27	Thank you, Mrs Özen. I call Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u28	Mr. President, prisoners are still worth it. No? I know it's International Organism Day, but you don't have to... [[Laughs]] My colleagues had asked me to place him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u29	I congratulate you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u30	All in all, you're much more attentive when I'm talking about orgasm than when I'm talking about the status of inmates. It's still sad! I will make a general statement on behalf of my group. I will refer to my written report for the rest. It's a joke. Colleagues, the pots are following each other, but the fact remains the same. Your policy, sometimes under the guise of good intentions – you have many – unfortunately continues to violate the rights of the litigants. I had the opportunity to remind him at the committee. Your project is the result of a fixed conception of the law, since each procedural guarantee is perceived as an obstacle to the effectiveness of justice. For you, justice is only effective when it leads to a decision, regardless of the fairness and transparency of the procedure that led to it. The only thing my group will be happy about the pot-pourri 4 IV is what is no longer there. A year ago, during the debate on the presentation of your policy note for 2016, I had already expressed serious doubts about your pilot project for the commercial court. No one is a prophet in his land. After a few months, you would have had to wait for the comments of the Council of State and university professors to hear right and remove this chapter from your project. Being a fundamentally optimistic person, I'd say, better late than never. Unfortunately, in the face of this good news, there is the rest. I told you that in this general discussion I would focus on a few chapters, starting with the anonymity of the police officers. The project envisages a systematic anonymization of the identity of special forces officers in judicial files, and an anonymization decided by the police itself when necessary in the context of investigations into certain offences. The draft does not provide for the removal of such anonymity. However, it may continue before the courts in two cases: first, when police officers are called to testify in court and possibly behind a curtain, and second, when the elements they collect are used against an accused. However, anonymous testimony runs counter to the fair trial, as the European Court of Human Rights has well explained: "If the defence ignores the identity of individuals whom it is trying to question, it may be deprived of details enabling it to establish that it is biased, hostile or unfaithful". However, in our criminal law anonymous testimony is already possible, thanks to articles 75bis and 86bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, but in both cases anonymity is granted by the investigating judge, who takes into account the circumstances and the concrete risks, in his decision. Anonymous testimony has been the subject of important jurisprudence by the European Court of Human Rights. In 1998, the current President of the Court of Cassation, Mr Jean de Codt, and in 2007, Ms Marie-Aude Beernaert, who is a professor of criminal law at UCL, each commented on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which recall the main principles that must surround anonymous testimony. According to them, a series of requirements must be met before granting anonymity. These must, of course, take into account the rights of the defence. Anonymous testimony must be decided by a judge, granted only if no alternative is possible, appreciated in concreteo, and therefore not attributed in a generalized and automatic manner, and finally, it cannot be the determining factor of the outcome of a trial. These principles, applied to Bill IV, would mean that if evidence is collected or found by anonymous police officers, a judge should systematically rule on the need to maintain anonymity on a case-by-case basis. Now, that's what you're being blamed for, the bill doesn't provide for it. Although the investigating judge may be aware of identities, on the contrary, the draft provides for a penalty of imprisonment and/or fine in case of disclosure of identity. The explanatory memorandum is justified by an allusion to a 2014 judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. But this decision concerns witnesses who are not present at the trial. Moreover, the European Court of Human Rights requires, even for absent witnesses, an inconclusive assessment by a judge of the need for an absence of appearance. And what applies to witnesses who are absent must a fortiori stand for anonymous witnesses. For the current President of the Court of Cassation, the European Court of Human Rights considers that "in due course, when anonymous witnesses are police officers, it is appropriate to be more rigorous in terms of respect for the rights of the defence than when it comes to individuals. The demand for contradiction is all the greater, in fact, because members of the law enforcement agencies are bound to a general duty of obedience to the executive power of the State and are in a hierarchical position vis-à-vis the Public Prosecutor's Office with regard to their judicial police mission." We are not fundamentally against the anonymity of the police, but we cannot accept, on behalf of the fair trial and the rights of the defence, that this anonymity be systematic and uncontrolled. Moreover, if the draft was voted as it stood, many criminal trials might not be successful due to the lack of admissible evidence. That is why we have tabled an amendment in committee to ensure that, in the face of evidence gathered or recorded by police officers anonymously, an investigating judge can systematically rule on the maintenance of anonymity on a case-by-case basis. Another aspect of the project is the reform of the Central Council and Prison Oversight Commissions. Mr Minister, I have reminded you in committee, and in this respect we will recognize the lack of honesty of this government, which has never referred to the optional protocol to the Convention against Torture. Mr Minister, you are aware that, as it stands, potpourri IV will not allow Belgium to ratify this protocol. We remain an exception within Europe by maintaining the sad place of the signatory states that have not ratified the Treaty. I would remind you that Cambodia or Mozambique have found a way to set up monitoring bodies that meet the requirements of this protocol. That's not our case. But more concretely, if we can only approve the independence of these control bodies, it becomes a powder in the eyes when it comes to assessing the impact of the proposed reforms. When the administration imposes the full weight of public authority on a person, it must do so in strict compliance with the rule of law. Whether in prison or elsewhere, the power relations between two opposing interests, when exercised in isolation from the eyes, inevitably lead to abuses and that is why no space for deprivation of liberty should escape full and complete transparency. The state must accept accountability and accept even close scrutiny. These principles are not dictated by mistrust of those who exercise heavy responsibilities in the prison environment, but it is the conflicting nature of our prison system that demands it. That is why this bill should not be restricted to prisons alone, but to all places of deprivation of liberty as provided for by OPCAT. I am thinking here of closed centres or police stations. Equally important is the question of the effectiveness of the means of control. It is not enough to want exemplary prisons. We have to afford it. However, like almost all the people heard on this project, we denounce the cumulation imposed on the supervisory commissions. They are assigned mediation and monitoring functions at the same time as the complaint processing function. This cumulation will weaken the supervisory commissions. With regard to mediation, they will lose credibility and impartiality with regard to detainees who will no longer wish to resort to these commissions. As far as the handling of complaints is concerned, they will first be overwhelmed by complaints which they will not be able to provide, due to lack of time and training, the appropriate judicial treatment. But in addition, they will no longer have the independence to resolve a conflict. Minister, as you are used to doing very subtly, there are many small setbacks in the project. In particular, nude searches are less framed; hours to appeal or object are reduced. Minister, when I read these articles, I really wonder how aware you are of the prison situation. You continue to create the current reality. Have you only read the reports of the Central Council or supervisory commissions or even the decisions of the Council of State? Do you now think that the problem of naked searches is the excessive administrative complexity they require? As to the modalities of appeal or opposition, I wonder how many detainees had actually to be released because their rights would not have been respected. What relationship does it allow you to say that the current system is a problem in practice? Why do you decide to change or step back, with fewer rights for inmates, since this would be a problem? Minister, the government is doing everything it can to disengage from prisons. You have reduced the reflection around prisons to a mere question of danger. Deleting a classification adapted to the reintegration and needs of the prisoners plunges the Belgian prison and prison environment back into a conception of another time. All scientific studies on a necessary classification that would be much more intelligent and adapted to inmates are not known. What about this disenfranchisement that you begin by removing the procedures that are established by royal decree? In doing so, you open the way to the arbitrariness of the administration, which is already under pressure because of the savings imposed on it. As far as the individual detention plan is concerned, you simplify the conditions so much that instead of being a genuine tool for modern reintegration, it will become an administrative formality. The fact that it does not have to be written in the institution where the inmate is placed obviously tells us a lot about your conception of the prison. In a completely different register, the project creates a court of contracts for three judges, which is certainly an issue for me. First of all, I do not hide from you my surprise to learn that the President of the Court of Appeal has not been involved or even consulted on this reform. Secondly, it is strange to create a section which would have only one per cent of the cases dealt with by the Brussels Court of Appeal, especially since this section would be composed of two times three judges and the framework is not yet filled. In reality, through this new market court, the government confirms its choice of two-speed justice: efficient and fast for conflicts between large companies, slow and underfunded for others. The exclusion of consumers from this new court only reinforces this impression. Why provide for recruitment that deviates from normal procedures? We wonder if this exception is not custom written in order to get judges from the law firms close to these large companies. Other questions, Minister: If the framework of this procurement court is filled, does that mean that there will be fewer judges in other cases? Why should such cases be given priority over cases of terrorism, finance or involving minors, for example? I would also like to dwell for a moment on the choice of the government not to take into account the opinions concerning unnecessary costs given by the Council of State and the Bar Associations, since in the case of recovery of a claim through judicial proceedings, the draft creates a presumption of fault if the claim is undisputed, since there is a less costly extra-judicial procedure since potpourri I. As a result, the judicial process may be considered ex officio as unnecessary costs, which the creditor will have to pay. The Council of State did not mingle its words about the draft provision. First of all, it recalls that the extra-judicial procedure has not yet entered into force and, above all, affirms that the draft is not admissible under articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution because "it is difficult to determine in advance whether the undisputed claim will actually be". In other words, at the time of commencement of recovery proceedings, the claimant is not certain that it will not be challenged at a later date. The Government completely disregards the objection of the Council of State and maintains its article. This has been a constant process of justice, Minister, since you came to power. These are blind savings on all floors and very little consideration has been given to the opinions that have been expressed. And although one can understand the concern to achieve savings in order to avoid unnecessary procedures, unfortunately the government pretends to ignore the aim pursued by the essence of this procedure, namely to avoid that the relations of force affect the outcome of a conflict and lead to decisions that are arbitrary. Finally, I will close with the last measure of your project, which concerns the merger of registry offices and, then, the removal of courtrooms. We could have accepted the merger of transplants within the same building. Unfortunately, in the current state, your project allows a much wider fusion of transplants until the reduction to a single transplant per borough. However, we have made all our remarks to you, Minister, on many occasions. You have refused to adapt your text, which justifies, even more so, our mistrust. I'm telling you, if this government is obsessed with savings, reduces the number of registries to one per district, it limits once again access to justice. Since the beginning of this legislature, the government, which is still obsessed with its economies, has been presenting to us projects, including potpourri IV, which have a lasting impact on the rights of citizens and undermine public service. The Department of Justice does not escape the reduction of public services, at the risk of increasingly moving the citizen away from justice. That is why we will not support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u31	Mr Minister, I have heard that, in the spirit of Mrs Özen, orgasm can only be done naked! I don't know if that's true. I leave this to your sagacity. Minister, as usual with these potty laws that are dear to you, we find such disparate measures that some are interesting, while others are not. Secondly, there must be a general opinion: yes, no, abstention. It's obviously very complicated to do the part. Your method has something to disconcert with the opposition. It may be simple for the majority, since it votes a whole set of measures at one time, so that everyone can find his or her own account. This is not necessarily the case for litigants or legal practitioners who then have to put these provisions into music. I will focus on one aspect of this text, which will justify the reason why we will not support it. However, at the outset, I was very interested in the title of potpourri IV: "Bill amending the legal status of prisoners and the supervision of prisons". I said to myself: Here is finally a courageous minister who will implement the various provisions of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005. We could hope for it, especially as it appeared in your Justice Plan. In fact, you indicated your wish to see this legislation fully enter into force. I would remind you, Minister, that the crucial course of detention for the reintegration of prisoners into society and the fight against recidivism is still in place today. There is also the right of complaint. If good solutions could be found, that would indeed be interesting. I know you're working on medical law. But it must be noted that, far from achieving the desired result, the text you are presenting to us cannot yet be fully implemented. That is why I tabled an amendment in committee, which I resubmit in plenary session. As part of this amendment, I call on all colleagues and especially those of the majority to accept that, by 1 January 2018, this law, which has been the pride of our Parliament, which has been the subject of symposia, which has been studied everywhere and which has been presented as an excellent legislative initiative, can finally be applied. When I defended this amendment in committee, you told me that on January 1, 2018, it was perhaps a little early because we will probably not yet be able to do everything because we must appeal to the Minister of Health who is responsible for including medical law in the overall social security system. As far as we are concerned, there can be a transfer from the Justice FPS to the Public Health FPS, but Mrs De Block must agree and find, at this time of crisis, the budgetary means to cope with this new burden. Moreover, in my view, we cannot simply return responsibility to others. I also note that the right of complaint provided for in this 2005 Act will not yet be effectively organized. What were the basic principles of the Dupont law? It intended to develop a full legal status of the detainee, which was truly perceived as a subject of law, with the aim that the harmful effects of detention should be limited to the maximum extent possible, which was an essential condition for the achievement of other objectives of the Act, such as rehabilitation, reparation and rehabilitation. In this context, it advocates the development of a prison path with a view to possible early release. A strategic means of achieving these objectives has led to the creation of an individual detention plan, i.e. the individualisation of the support of prisoners as a means of ensuring better reintegration and a lower rate of recidivism. This required strengthening priorities in respect for the inmate, engaging in a range of field actors in detention and enabling the inmate to have living conditions that are as close as possible to those he or she would have outside. More than ten years later, we're nowhere. It is unfortunate, Minister, when I know that this is part of the objectives that you are pursuing, but either you are not given the financial means, or there is no political will in this majority to ensure that, finally, this law has all its effects. The only positive thing that you propose to us in relation to this situation is to transfer to Parliament the responsibility of the Central Supervisory Board as well as of the prison monitoring commissions. The sector has been very much in demand for this measure in recent years. This will put an end to the situation where the person who had to judge life in prison, hear the detainees and their complaints, act as an interface with prison management, was completely dependent on the FPS Justice. It didn't make much sense and almost amounted to being a judge and a party. Yeah, all right. We're moving to parliament. But, Mr President, I do not know whether you have been able to agree on this transfer of a supplementary body which will require substantial budgetary resources to ensure that this is truly effective. The Minister plans, if you are not aware, that €66,000 can be transferred from the FPS Justice to Parliament to fill this new charge. At a colloquium where members of his cabinet were present, the measure was estimated at between 1.5 and 2 million euros. Mr President, I asked the minister in committee whether the House had actually been coordinated, the accounting services, formerly the questure, I have still not properly integrated the new name. Are we ready at the level of this Parliament to welcome this complementary service which actually has its place in our Assembly rather than in the Justice FPS? But, of course, Parliament, which is also being asked to make efforts in terms of its budget and the reduction of its budget, has to carry out new tasks without having the means to do so, as if the reform would not have any effect! It is known that in order to function, the Central Council, if we speak only of it and not of the supervisory commissions, will need a secretariat, staff at its disposal, lawyers no doubt. Where are we going to get them? How will we actually finance these procedures? I believe your attitude, Mr. Speaker, is that you are not very aware of it, that the services of the House are not too well known, and that you may not have the means to carry out this new mission. Once again, it is the Minister of Public Health who must find the solutions so that the medical law of the accused integrates the security in the broad sense. Once again, the parliament must find the solutions, including budgetary and human resources, to host the Central Supervisory Council, its tasks and those of the special commissions of each of the prisons in the kingdom. We break down our responsibilities but without giving or having the financial means, which makes me think that we will find it difficult in our parliament to carry out this mission, which is yet to be carried out by our leader and which was a delight to all the actors on the ground. Really questions about the reality and effectiveness of this transfer. In addition, Minister, I have tried to discuss and open certain doors so that the handling of complaints, to which prisoners are entitled and which is enshrined in the 2005 Principles Act, can be effectively enforced. It is inconceivable to entrust this task of handling complaints to the prison supervisory commissions. This is not the case, when one knows that the same body is responsible for both a mediation and a complaint handling mission, how can one imagine that a member of a supervisory commission intervenes as a mediator between an inmate and the management or guards can still have credibility in dealing with complaints while maintaining its neutrality? Trust may well be broken. The primary task of the supervisory commissions is precisely that function of mediation and not that of handling complaints, it seems to me. All the more so since, from a practical point of view, we all know that these commissions are made up of volunteers and that we are facing increasing difficulties in setting them up in prisons. The members of these commissions do not have the time to exercise a judicial function when they would justify full-time work if they were to become a genuine complaints body. It would have been better to have recourse to an external judicial body. But, in the current times, we do not have the budgetary means. Other avenues were explored through the federal mediators initially, through a proposal made by the federal mediators. They highlighted the fact that they cannot handle complaints. However, recognizing that the committees and the Central Supervisory Board would be attached to the House, acting as an administrative receptacle at least, with the human and budgetary means of their own, to assist the Central Council in fulfilling its responsibilities, while we tried to translate it into the text in the form of an amendment, was rejected. I therefore think, Mr Minister, that, far from going in the direction of the political will that you have expressed in your general policy note or in your views on what should be justice and the implementation of all the provisions of the Dupont Act, it is still a departure from this, even if, theoretically, by adopting the Central Council and the supervisory committees in Parliament, we are taking a step in the right direction. This step will not be sufficient and may even be a step backwards if budgetary and human resources are not associated with this new mission. In addition, Mr. Minister, in the text that you are proposing to us, far from improving the situation of prisoners, you are complicating the opposition they can make or the appeal they can make to decisions that concern them, saying that they can now only take place during the opening hours of the prison transplants and not at any time as was the case today. I don't think it's familiar with the difficulties that inmates face on a day-to-day basis. They need to get out of their cell, and get permission to join the transplant, perhaps at times when it won't even be open. You continue with the classification of prisons and the searches of detainees. We talked about this a few years ago. Everyone had already considered nude searches a scandal in the name of respect for human rights and privacy. Far from improving this situation, you are making it even more complex because we all know, as members of the Justice Committee, that in the course of these bare searches, abuses are committed. Illegal practices are detected and denounced. It was not necessary to expand the nude searches, but to increase the inmate's protection from these particularly offensive and traumatic invasive means. Mr.Minister, I did not want to talk about the other aspects of your bill, to stick to that element that, on its own, justifies that we will not follow you for this text. Some elements are interesting but the essential, which gave the name to your potpourri IV, i.e. the legal situation of the detainees, is clearly not improved by this text: only on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u32	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have to pass a new law which the minister likes to call it "pot-pourri", "pot-pourri IV". So, a pot-pourri, in music, is rather a selection of airs pleasant to hear, a selection of songs chosen because being part of a popular repertoire. It is true that there are still elements in your bills that we can approve and that are unquestionably making a legal advance that is expected. I am thinking, for example, in this project, of the creation of a central criminal record of legal persons or the imputation of inoperative pre-trial detention days. But this satisfaction is very quickly limited – and I will devote most of my presentation to this – in relation to the expectation that many of you had in your bill with respect to its part relating to the full implementation of the January 12, 2005 law of principles, the Dupont Act, which is only very partially met by your bill. It is true – others have reminded me before – that the full implementation of the Dupont law remains unsatisfied today. However, this law – which remains one of the reference laws, including those in other countries that seek to better determine the legal status of detainees – will not be fully implemented by your bill. That's the opposite! There are even some regressions in your bill from the Dupont Act. Is it worth recalling that the Dupont Act was intended to provide real legal certainty for detainees, based on an approach centred on the quality of the detainee's right and with the desire to limit the harmful effects of detention? Thus, the detainee could no longer be subject to a limitation of his social, economic or cultural rights other than that resulting from his criminal conviction and the deprivation of liberty. It was undoubtedly a Copernician law because it also established a right of complaint to detainees for decisions taken against them. It also established the Central Supervisory Board as well as the supervisory commissions responsible for each prison, which were previously under the dome of the Minister of Justice. It is true, and we appreciate it, that this bill provides for the attachment of these oversight bodies to Parliament, such as the P Committee, the R Committee or the Privacy Commission. Although a major step forward, it is sufficient under the 2005 Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Inhuman and Degrading Treatment and Punishment, better known as OPCAT. Why? First of all, in your project, the commissions will have a mandate only for prisons and not for all places of deprivation of liberty. It was Me Laurent, the President of the Central Supervisory Board, who drew attention to this point, particularly during the examination of the draft in committee. Of course, to justify this deficiency, you have taken refuge behind the argument of institutional complexity. I am not sure that there would be any jurisdiction for the federal legislature to establish a national preventive mechanism competent for all places of deprivation of liberty, even though some of them are established or managed by the levels of power of the federated entities. It seems to me that there are precedents in other states, but with other rules on the allocation of powers. At the very least, you could have submitted at the same time at the tabling of your bill, a bill of consent to an agreement between the different levels of authority in order to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u33	Moreover, the monitoring and mediation mission is not always separate from that of handling complaints. Thus, the handling of prisoners' complaints in relation to the decisions of the prison management is not entrusted to any body other than the supervisory commissions where already overcrowded persons work. However, it would be easier to entrust mediation treatment to a separate body of the supervisory commission. This separate body would then provide guarantees of independence, impartiality and accessibility, would have paid staff for these missions, which must be exercised on a full-time basis, and would have sufficient knowledge of the prison environment and internal prison procedures. This confusion of mediation missions and the handling of complaints by a single body constitutes an admission of weakness, a lack of ambition, it seems to me, and above all a lack of willingness to comply with international law. The European Court of Human Rights insists, in its case law, on the impossibility of being both a mediator and a judge, and on the fact that not all members of the supervisory commissions necessarily have independence, impartiality, training or even the time necessary to properly handle complaints from detainees with whom they frequently discuss in the course of their mediation missions. On the other hand, it is also difficult to see how a commission that gives, for example, a favourable response to a complaint, can then restore the bond of trust necessary for its mediation function. As I said, you could have set up a new independent commission within each prison. Of course, I recognize that this has a budgetary cost. But it would have been a respect for international law. This would have been in line with the ratio legis of the Dupont law, which wanted to promote a commission which is in prison, which is in line with the reality of the prison and whose decision can quickly replace that of the director of the prison. You don't have the budgetary means. This is more than regrettable: it is a failure to correctly allocate missions to preserve the status of detainees. Finally, the composition of the commissions, as you envisage, or as you confirm, does not allow for the representation of criminologists on these commissions, even though they are trained in the management of detained persons and their relations with the prison administration. We are tabling an amendment to that end. As for the statutory classification of prisons according to specific groups of prisoners, which the bill intended to abolish, it was rather regrettable because that distinction had added value. Your removal seems unfortunate to me as to the correct preparation of prisoners for their reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u34	We therefore also submit an amendment to delete the article which ends the distinction between the classification of correctional institutions according to the specific groups of prisoners. It must be safeguarded, as it once again complies with the ratio legis of the 2005 Act, i.e. to classify prisons according to technical control measures, but also in order to allow humane and quality support for prisoners. This implies a different approach and adapted to their specificities, length of sentence, age, health, special modalities and this in each prison. It is also surprising that you delete it, while you are planning, notably in Masterplan III Prisons, the renovation of the Merksplas site which is precisely a prison that can accommodate 400 inmates with adapted profiles – long sentences, elderly prisoners, suffering from mental or specific disorders, etc. This prison will therefore be the exception that confirms the rule with what this implies for detainees who would thus be away from their loved ones. I also regret that. As for the examination of clothes and body searches. Although the explanatory memorandum of the draft did attach importance to the fact that "the monitoring personnel who carry out the examination of the clothes and the body search have been trained for this purpose, in order to carry out these forms of control in a correct, secure and humane manner", it remains that this requirement does not appear at all in the operative part of the article included in the draft. I am also introducing an amendment to correct this omission and to mention in the legislation the requirement for specific training for personnel involved in body searches. In accordance with Council of Europe rules, persons conducting searches must be trained in order to detect and prevent attempts to escape or conceal objects that have entered into fraud, while respecting the dignity of the persons searched. The requirement for reasons of the decision to search the body, taken by the prison director, is also mentioned, since the search is allowed only because of specific individualized indications which must be included in this decision. Moreover, according to the rules recommended by the Council of Europe, the process of body search must be specified so that the detainee can never be completely naked, the search aimed first at the top and then at the bottom of the body. These prison rules will have to be transposed with regard to examination of body cavities, stating that it cannot be carried out by prison staff. This is what the Council of Europe recommends. In principle, the presence of a doctor is required. Finally, I would like to stress the reform of the appeal and the opposition. They will only be possible, as other speakers have pointed out, during the opening hours of the prison registry or social defence sections – in comparison with the procedures for appeals to the court registry. I regret that this reform disproportionately restricts the right of detainees over time, while their deprivation of freedom of movement prevents them from taking steps to appeal or oppose as easily as a person who is not incarcerated. You know how difficult it is for an inmate to get out of his cell in order to take an approach to the registry, to prepare his arguments, sometimes to have mastery of the understanding of the documents submitted to him because he does not have mastery of one of the national languages. It is true that the authorization granted to inmates to go to the Registry takes a long time to arrive because of the recurrent lack of staff and the strikes that sometimes result – all obstacles to the exercise of the right of appeal or opposition by an inmate. I note, of course, that this bill contains significant procedural progress. I am thinking of anonymity under certain conditions of the representatives of the security forces, of the creation of a market court within the Court of Appeal, but I will not repeat the long list of the various subjects involved in this pot-pourri. However, as far as the status of detainees is concerned, you are imposing restrictions on the ambition of the Dupont law, which seems disproportionate to me. That is why we will not be able to support your bill as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make you comfortable with the funding of the Supervisory Board and the operation of the measures set out in this bill. Indeed, we have planned a delayed entry into force pending a convention with Parliament on the financing of this autonomous operation. In other words, Mr. President, we are going to take our time. However, with regard to compliance with the Convention on Human Rights, it is clear that independent functioning vis-à-vis the Ministry and the Minister of Justice is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, with regard to the confusion of jurisdiction, I have frequently pointed out that it is not my intention to have the supervisory function and the function of handling complaints by the same persons, but that there would be a distinction between functions on supervisory boards. I added that it would be useful to gain supervisory jurisdiction before sitting on complaints. It is true that we must urgently ratify the principle of the OPCAT Convention. That is our intention. I stressed that in committee. I know that simultaneity is not achieved, Mr. Maingain. That doesn't mean we're not going to hurry to make it happen. Mr. Dupont's basic law is very dear to me. A royal decree was taken. I believe I have given the various dates of entry into force of the various parties in committee. So I didn't dare to commit to January 1, 2018, because caution is necessary. In any case, we are making enormous progress, and I only point out that, for example, in relation to medical release, we have already brought into force the basic law at the beginning of the legislature. With regard to the appeal to the court registry or to the prison registry, it is normal to insist that there should be no faults. I don't think so, there will be late call deposits. Prison guards cannot be required to have the knowledge necessary to avoid making mistakes about deposits at night. As far as the search is concerned, it is true that we want to follow the Convention on Human Rights and we will do so, through a directive which will require, at least for women, that the search take place in two stages, in a dignified manner, that is, without the person being completely naked. As far as torture and the Committee against Torture are concerned, this is one of my main concerns, Mrs Özen. We will try to negotiate as soon as possible a minimum service, which has become very necessary. I'll stick to that. I think I've answered most of the questions, Mr. President. With this potpourri IV, we are making great progress. All progress is made in small steps, but these were worth taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u36	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u37	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1986/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1986/11) The draft law has 182 articles. The bill has 182 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u38	• 141 - Christian Brotcorne (1986/12) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u39	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u40	V Earrings submitted by: Proposals submitted by: - 1743: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse - 2014: Karine Lalieux, Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Daniel Senesael, Laurette Onkelinx, Eric Massin, Fabienne Winckel, Özlem Özen - 2145: Muriel Gerkens, Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo .
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u41	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u42	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u43	Then I will give you the floor in the general discussion, Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u44	Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we saw this text only on Friday afternoon. Even if we vote on it, minister, we regret that we have had to work so urgently. This bill will affect all children born and all future parents, and even others, since there is a transitional period. To be able to discuss it calmly would have been preferable, especially when it was a law of primary interest to society as a whole. However, it was necessary to respond to the Constitutional Court's ruling. That is why we have agreed to work in this way. And even if we didn't accept it, anyway, the majority would have done it; we don't have a lot of illusions. We knew, minister, that the law we passed under the previous legislature was discriminatory. We knew that and we had said that in the course of the debates. Mr. Brotcorne lived it. We knew that by voting that law, we gave the father a veto. But we, and the people who have worked there for very long years, considered this to be a step forward in relation to this transmission of the last name. The first bill I introduced dates back to 2002. It takes time. Finally, couples could give a double name. Thus, the mother's name was finally recognized and transmitted, if at least it was the choice of the parents. So it was a relative step forward, but it was still a step forward. We were very pleased that some bodies and institutions were filing a petition to the Constitutional Court against the law that we had voted here in plenary session. We were even more pleased with the Court's judgment. That opinion asked us to correct the law. The proposal on the table is a compromise. We dropped off another one. It was to put the name of the father and then the name of the mother, to maintain a certain tradition and not to hit the "sensible souls" too much, if I can say so. The other choice was that of alphabetical order. We can follow this choice, because it is not discriminatory for names in W, X, Y, Z... because anyway, in the second generation, we can give the name we want. So at some point these names can obviously be passed on. On the other hand, I am pleased that the draw has not been retained by the government. The civil registry officer who had to draw names by lot, who did not know the parents' reaction, and the parents did not know what would happen to them if they chose the dual name, caused an additional difficulty. In order to avoid alphabetical order, to avoid drawing lots, to avoid the father's name, the mother's name or the other way around, and to avoid that there is only one name and that all children finally bear two surnames, I think that, as I had tabled in 2002, the real solution for the State is the obligation to transmit the two surnames. We had an obligation in the Civil Code to transmit only the father's name, we could finally have made the law by saying that it is simply the transmission of the double surname because, before it was the father, and it is the recognition of double filiation. If there is only one mother, we know that we could give two names, we had solved all this in a proposal, there was no problem of discrimination against the child. It is a regret, but perhaps in a future legislature, we will finally arrive at the double family name for all children. Of course, we will vote on this bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u45	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, Ms. Secretary of State, like Ms. Lalieux, I am one of those parliamentarians who have been here long enough than for having lived the work on this proposal since 1999. We had taken a few months to get started, but we had set up a working group of women parliamentarians from all political families. The working group had reached a conclusion and a proposal that were very good. The dual name was indeed proposed. Then, in plenary session, the male share and the father's prevalence were still too much present in our society for this proposal to succeed. The various groups have therefore tabled bills. This work continued during the subsequent legislatures, which only came to fruition in 2014, and this led to the difficult position that that year, when faced with a text that respected the choice, to incorporate the dual name, but which, in the event of non-choice or disagreement, attributed the father's name. Of course, we knew that there was discrimination on the basis of sex. We knew there was going to be recourse. The government at the time knew that. And, despite everything, again because of the perception and belief in the prevalence of man and father, the government maintained these provisions. Today, we have to correct this law. It is clear – and I fully agree with my colleague – that the solution is the double name for everyone. At that time, there is no longer any discrimination and there is respect and recognition of both parents through the name. Today we are repairing but, unfortunately, we are repairing in haste. We have been aware of the arrest for several months. Although there was a request for advice from the Council of State, bills had been tabled since the beginning of the legislature on which we could have worked. There were also opinions, including that of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which carried out analyses and examined the various avenues and responses that could be given on the basis of the concern for equality between men and women, between fathers and mothers. This project only happened a few days ago and we must adopt it before 31 December so that it can enter into force on 1 January. The current issues relate to the organization of the order of the two names, since it has been decided, and it is a good thing, that in the event of a lack of choice or in the event of disagreement, the two names would be imposed on the parents. The option chosen is that the order of names will be set in alphabetical order. Of course, there may be some concern about the disappearance of some names. But we know that children will be able to choose, for future generations, and maintain these names. For me, that is not the main concern. The main concern is that we find ourselves with another form of discrimination, since the result is known between the two parents. We even find ourselves faced with an essential element that the Constitutional Court had highlighted, which was that if in the event of disagreement the father's name prevailed, there was discrimination, that he had a right of veto because he knew the final result: "If I do not agree with my companion or my wife, it will be my name, anyway, that will be imposed; so I will be victorious anyway." This will continue to exist. I am the bearer of the name with a letter earlier in alphabetical order, I know that in case of non-choice or in case of disagreement, it will be my name that will be the first. This does not mean that it will be ad vitam, since there are the following generations, but there is a result that is known in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u46	I do not agree with that. This will be my only intervention, Mr. President. Mrs. Gerkens, we have to get into people's minds. When it's the choice of the double last name, the name is the two names. So the two names, no matter which one is in the first place. The child will always, I don't know, put "Lalieux-Özen" for example. It doesn't matter. Both names are the last name. This logic of "as I am the first" will not exist. If the parents are there, don't make children.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u47	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u48	I do not agree with Mrs Gerkens' legal reasoning. Yes, of course, the predictability of the law gives the solution to the possible conflict between the two parents. In short, freedom of choice is reduced for both. That's the effect of the law. But let us put an end to discrimination between men and women! This was sanctioned by the Constitutional Court. It is the fact that the father, and he alone, had the power of the last word and was recognized as a "privilege" - there is no other term - in relation to his wife. So let us not put on the same level what you regret about the effect of the law in the event of litigation, as well as the predictable solution given by the law and the end of discrimination against mothers in the couple. In the new system, no one is discriminated against because of their belonging, their sex. Of course, according to the alphabetical order of the names, sometimes it is the father or mother who, in case of disagreement, will have the certainty of the result. That, yes, but there is no system that can give perfect equality in a certain way. But what was unacceptable in the law in force was that the father alone was recognized as the right of veto, which was absurd.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u49	I don't put both dimensions on the same level. There is a remedy of discrimination between men and women, which automatically established the father's name. It is because I defend the system of drawing by lot that I express myself in this way. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has also defended this point of view, so that both parents find themselves equally faced with a solution that will result in two names that will be put in a certain order. The fact of choosing alphabetical order means that a partner of the couple knows what the outcome will be. It's disturbing. The aim is that there will be no more conflicts, that parents will integrate, before they become parents, that they will one day have to deal with this situation. We expect him from the parents and we know that, despite everything, this will not happen. Contrary to what some believe, the drawing of lots will not amplify the conflict. This may disturb parents because in Belgium we don't like drawing lots so much. This has less value than an alphabetical order. Since when does the alphabet contain more moral, societal, philosophical value than a drawing by lot? In the second solution, none of the partners knows what the outcome will be. We put both partners at the same level. My objective is to find mechanisms that allow this true equality at all levels and to force partners, in a certain way, to conclude an agreement in advance so as not to be subjected to a disqualifying procedure – whether it be alphabetical order or drawing by lot. We appreciate, and I think we cannot do otherwise, the presence of an identical mechanism between co-parents than between a father and a mother. We also appreciate the provision for a six-month retroactive effect. I think we're going to have to organise a well-known information campaign. Indeed, many young parents are still unaware of the provisions in force for the past two and a half years. As such, we sometimes receive requests for retroactive effect for those who have not seized this opportunity during the period when the change is authorized and who, after being informed, would like to opt for another system. I am well aware that this is another problem, but it should be considered with a view to generalizing the dual name. In the previous debate on this subject, our group had severely criticized the very real discrimination between father and mother. Nevertheless, we supported the text, because we considered it important to establish the dual name. With respect to this provision, we will abstain, because we believe that it was possible to find a more equitable system among partners, but we support the other provisions of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u50	Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, in 2014 we made a mistake in the name of a lame political compromise. Everyone knew that discrimination was being introduced into the text that would never pass the ramp of an appeal to the Constitutional Court. To hear this evening in our Chamber that we are pleased that a law that we have passed is partly overturned by this Court is still nonsense. That is not the objective we must pursue when we legislate. That's too bad. Mrs Lalieux, on a strictly legal point of view, from the moment when we wanted to open the discussion on the name given to the child, legal certainty ordered, and perhaps still today, to say whether that was the double name we wanted. In that case, that was what had to be imposed, and there was no other choice. It is the mother's name and then the father's name or the other way around, and at the limit, it can still be discussed and the legislator can decide. But at least legal certainty is guaranteed. I have the feeling, as I said in committee, that the solution proposed today still retains the same principle: parents are left to choose. Dad's name, mom's name, the double name, in one sense or another, and if it doesn't go well, it will be the double name with, first, the one that, in alphabetical order, is before. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u51	My name is Brotcorne. I don't even have an advantage because my wife's name is Allard. I was even in the magazine! I heard the exchange between Mr. Maingain and Mrs. Gerkens. I feel that legal uncertainty is being reintroduced in the proposal. What does the Constitutional Court tell us when it cancels? In fact, you have made the choice of giving a veto to the father who can decide that it is his name that will be granted, whether or not discrimination of the kind. Today, the minister is proposing discrimination that is no longer gender discrimination, but discrimination that results from the privilege of having a name that begins with a letter of the alphabet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u53	It's a possibility. It is a different discrimination from gender discrimination. What does the Council of State say in its opinion? He said that a new form of discrimination, a different type of discrimination, was introduced. In doing so, with the choice that is being made today, there is a risk that this text will be annulled by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the Council of State recalls that what matters is that the child has, as soon as possible, a surname, and that it is not a fundamental right of the parents to choose the child's name. The fundamental right is the right of the child to have a name. So I come back to what I said earlier. In law – I don't say in politics – the only real solution is the double name, whatever the meaning of it. What is being proposed to us still opens the door to a possible recourse to the Constitutional Court which will do what it wants and which will be able to set aside. With what has been proposed to us, then, legal certainty is not assured, which is why, as I said in committee, Mr Minister, we will abstain in the hope that there will be no recourse, that we will be able to find a definitive solution. The important thing is the interest of the child and the name they are given from birth. It is not necessary for a conflict to occur between parents in a moment that must be a moment of rejoicing, only because one cannot agree on the choice of name.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u54	Mr President, I am very pleased that the government has joined the operative part of my bill, tabled with Mrs Caprasse. Perhaps I would have liked it to be the proposal that I have tabled that serves as the basis, but it is only sensitivities when it is sometimes necessary to recognize that the opposition has taken an advantage in terms of legislative work. I am pleased that we are converging towards a solution which seems to me to be more legally certain than that enshrined in the previous law. Mr Brotcorne, I understand the observation you share with Ms Gerkens that, in alphabetical order, one of the two spouses will have the advantage, in case of disagreement or refusal of choice. But basically, it is not a cause of discrimination. What the Constitutional Court clearly sanctioned in its judgment of 14 January this year is what it itself called the veto. The Constitutional Court was explicit: "The contested provision may have the effect of giving a veto to the father of the child if the mother of the child shows the will to give the child her own name or a double name and, if the father does not agree with that choice". This is indeed the cause of the annulment: this exorbitant privilege based on gender-based discrimination. Here, there is no basis for discrimination, there is no discrimination related to alphabetical order. No international or national text mentions that the alphabetical order of names could cause discrimination. Therefore, the solution seems to me to be legally certain. Like you, I believe that the right evolution that is definitive and desirable with the evolution of parental consciousness is to move towards the mandatory double name. This is not yet a cultural fact established in our country. The statistics given by the Minister on the reality of the application of the legal provisions clearly show that the prevalence of the father's name remains very high due to tradition or lack of thought. However, let us not hide that in the great cultural diversity of our country, some traditions want the father's name to prevail while other civilizations benefit the mother's name. The debate is delicate, but I always assume that if we want to promote change, we must first leave a fairly large degree of freedom of choice, because it is the best way to attract membership in stages. In order to force developments too much, there is a risk of encountering other types of controversies and more massive rejections. These are slow developments, but slow developments have led to the recognition of equality between men and women in the exercise of parental authority. This development, even if it was necessary and desirable, has not taken place at once. This solution will, at the very least, allow parents who want to choose the dual name to have an appropriate answer. I would add that this freedom of choice must be allowed and that the agreement must be promoted within the couple at the same time. That is why I am very reluctant to the system of drawing lots. First of all, because the system of drawing lots requires the intervention of a third party, the registrar, of which I must say that he may have some reluctance to lend himself to this exercise. So, I'd say with a blink of an eye, if he's a registrar who doesn't want to give his hand, he might not want to cast lots. And if, on top of that, it's a registrar who's used to it and knows how to fix random draws in the sports community, then there's no way tomorrow for the draw. I say this with a blink of an eye, smile and I don't sue anyone, of course! But you see that there may be a large void of administrative jurisprudence in any case, mainly in a principal municipality of the Kingdom. I don't want us to take this risk. That is why I believe that the drawing of lots should not be recommended, but it is said with great humour, of course! Let us return to a more serious consideration! I think we really need to allow parents to make this choice by common accord. We can still hope, except in exceptional cases, that the parents have the intelligence to know what they want for their child and to understand also – and that is in my opinion what it is important to leave the choice of the order of names – to the parents as much as possible because, simply, certain associations of names can, according to an order imposed, be unhappy for a child. I will not give an example. But, since we are at a time when we can afford to be a little lighter, Mr. President, imagine that Mrs. Couche is her name and that Mr. Arrière is her name. Depending on the order in which you place the names, it may prove to be unfavorable for a child. I think it is good to avoid choices that would be too tedious. I believe that the solution advocated by the government is happy, and it agrees with my proposal. I believe that it will bring some relief, which is necessary in view of the urgent need for the Constitutional Court's ruling to decide this matter before 31 December. Minister, you may still have to go to a maternity ward on the evening of the 31st to make sure that the law is well understood! That's what I wish you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u55	Mr President, a little bit of a little bit of a reflection on what has been said. At the beginning of the 21st century, the child may not need two names, but certainly a lot of love, attention, affection, and parental involvement. The child doesn't need to see his parents arguing about what we're going to name him. There's enough fighting already. There is so much misery, there are problems in many families that we may have more important topics to discuss here than what is futile to me. I ask myself the question for the genealogists of the fourth millennium: how are they going to be there in all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u56	Mr Friart, you have the art of triggering beautiful debates! However, Mrs Marghem is no longer here. I don't understand. The invocation of "futilities" has, each time, been made when women have conquered rights. I remember the debates on parity in the electoral lists. What have we heard in this rostrum, Mr Friart? What worries me is that we are in the 21st century and you are holding a 19th century speech. I imagine the MR will still vote on the government's proposal. Do you vote for "futile" projects? Minister, Madam Secretary of State, you will judge this. That is a shame, because this debate, for whatever reason, has been properly conducted. So I hope you will withdraw your remarks, Mr. Friart. Love, indeed, everyone is entitled to it, but to argue that the recognition of the transmission of the double name and that of the mother's name is a futility, I find it somewhat a pity coming from a member of a liberal party. If that's how you conceive of gender equality, I'm really disappointed on your part. I won't drink Saint-Feuillien anymore, Mr. Friart!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u57	Take this, Mrs. Lalieux, in the second degree. Nor should this be used to promote the emancipation of women, if you believed that you were not sufficiently emancipated. It was a little off-the-shelf thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u58	I'm not going to extend this exchange. Nevertheless, Mr Friart, every time this type of intervention happened - and it happened on many occasions - it was every time to defend the father's name. I didn't expect to hear it again today. Like: "Don't come bothering us with considerations that will complicate everything: we're going to put two names, we won't find ourselves in genealogy anymore, we won't know who the real family of origin is anymore", etc. These elements were highlighted in all discussions. A majority in parliament voted in 2014 to say that family history, genealogy, etc. did not have sufficient weight to discriminate between parents as to the name to be passed on to the child. This is the mutual respect of partners-parents in family arrangements. This contributes to family balance and, of course, does not replace love, education or respect for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u59	Mr President, it is true that the debates at the end of the evening are extremely interesting. This morning, around two o'clock, it was still the case. I listened attentively and with great interest to Mr. Maingain's speech because he had the decency to acknowledge that sometimes the subjects had to be treated with a little humour, which he did very well. Within the MR training, we had a discussion on this subject three or four years ago. Frankly, the opinions were quite divided. We have reached a consensus. I have heard Mr Maingain regret that his proposal, which is the one we are arriving at today, has not been taken into account. I understood the allusion to the fact that it is sometimes difficult for a majority to recognize that an opposition proposal is correct. Anyway, that's an interesting remark. Within our formation, for these kinds of subjects, everyone has the right to vote in his soul and conscience. Tomorrow it was agreed that we would support the project because the debate took place in depth and remained very positive, in the interests of men and women. On the other hand, I always say that we should consider renaming the Human Rights Council as the Human Rights Council, human rights, as is said internationally, so that there is no longer this gender difference, which is ultimately extremely unfortunate, as everyone will agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u60	Mr President, it is not a bad time, but it is advanced. I am expected to be brief, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are two types of government, a woman and a man. As in alphabetical order, my name precedes that of Mrs Sleurs, I answer first. In the countries around us, the solutions are divergent. This shows that the debate is still a little arbitrary, although discrimination is the main element in the discussion. In the Netherlands, that's the father's name. There is a draw in Luxembourg. It is the alphabetical order that prevails in France. We are following France, which is a good thing from time to time, especially when Mr Maingain advises us. We have considered the matter at length. That is why it is ultimately only in December that we ask you to vote. Alternatives to those proposed by the countries around us were possible. At some point, we've been thinking about the collective draw. This means that every six months, a minister or government would say whether it's from A to Z or from Z to A. So at the time of conception, we don't know what the alphabetical order will be. This gives a certain right to the preceding one in alphabetical order at the time of birth, but not at the time of conception. Furthermore, Mr President, I suggest that you accept a fourth way of voting in Parliament, namely by abstaining. It is preferable that there should be no recourse to the Constitutional Court. That's what Mr Brotcorne is going to do, but I would have preferred him to vote with us. Since I do not want the debate to be closed on behalf of the father, I give the floor to Mrs Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u61	Mr President, I thank the opposition groups who support our proposal. I believe that we have found a non-discriminatory, pragmatic and practical solution. A draw by lot is still a difficult thing to achieve in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u62	From the moment I hear every day, on the part of the government, to boast the computer and the wonders that computers can do, the simplification of the life that all this brings us, a lot can be drawn through a computer machine. I assure you, it's very simple. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u63	On the other hand, by reading the different opinions, it made me smile that it is shown that if we proceed in alphabetical order of the kind one year, it would start with A, another, it would start with Z or your collective voting formula, there we give the woman the opportunity to influence things and make the baby at the right time. There, the reaction was fast enough. But man could also control things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u64	The proposal was every six months. And a pregnancy takes nine months, as long as I know something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u65	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u66	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2220/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2220/4) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip150x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, this brings us to the end of our work. We'll retake tomorrow at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 22 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
