ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u1	Mrs Van Peel, I give you the floor and then I will add to my two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the reason for this question is the letter sent about the new GPMI and how the OMCWs should interpret it. From 1 November 2016, the new GPMI will enter into force. You know that I am in favour of this. I am very pleased with the letter and I am curious if every OCMW will take it to heart. After all, I believe that this is the way to bet on every client's bet. As has often been said, activation is the best way out of poverty. I hope that the OMCWs will show a sense of responsibility to use this GPMI. However, it is more than that, it is a tailor-made guidance and follow-up tool. The double obligation to state reasons is well explained in the circular. There's the motivation for why someone can't work. I am now talking about matters that could be included in the GPMI. There should not always be an activation obligation. One could therefore motivate why it is not put in, but that is not the same as motivating why it is not possible to participate in a GPMI. In the long debate on this subject, I said a few times that one should not always mean the other. After all, it is not because one cannot guide a client to work, that one cannot guide him tout court. I believe that each client should be able to deliver a tailor-made journey and that sometimes it is enough to take someone out of his social isolation and to accompany him or to allow him to take the first steps to follow an activation journey at a later stage. I have already taken initiatives in this area, so I often come back to this issue. It is also a reality that I regularly see in my OCMW. An example of what we are now setting out, of someone who we cannot immediately lead to activation, but who we must take very well into our hands, is someone who is dealing with drug addiction. That can go very wide. It could be an alcohol addiction or an addiction to other drugs. I've also seen a few files at the OCMW from young people who are addicted to gaming. So it's about all kinds of addictions. That's not delineated. These addictions often mean that people cannot be escorted directly to employment and that even an article 60 journey is often a step too far. However, one can take some steps in the GPMI to tackle drug addiction at least already, so that one can continue with that client at a later date. I have drawn up a proposal for this, which I would like to discuss in committee. This obliges OMCWFs to investigate, in any case, whether the person concerned can be led to deal with his addiction. Mr. Secretary, how do you see that within the GPMI? How can the GPMI be used for this target group, taking into account the double justification? Do you agree with me that the activation obligation for these clients can be abolished, but that a GPMI will be closed? Do you see different possibilities within the GPMI to pay extra attention to this target group? If so, how can the OCMW be responsive? The differences between the OCMWFs to address these problems are very large. There are many who are doing a great deal about it, but unfortunately there are also those who simply leave the problem behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u3	Minister, since my question was tabled, the situation has changed. In the meantime, the decree has been published and the circular communicated. Nevertheless, there are still aspects to be clarified. I am thinking in particular of the Community service and the individualisation of the ISIP. With regard to this second point, while I have understood the information given to me by social workers, there is a tool to encode the characteristics of the persons concerned, their obligations, their expectations and the objectives assigned by the social worker. How can we ensure the compatibility of this tool with a certain creativity and encourage its individual adaptation? Having long experience in this field, I know that when one does not enter a box, it goes wrong for the social worker or for the recipient of the aid. It is obviously difficult, in this case, to build a project with it and to introduce it into statistics and data banks or to complete a pre-categorized questionnaire. In this regard, a questionnaire was sent to CPAS requesting information on the situation of co-location of their beneficiaries. This would be a university study commissioned by the federal government. Does it fit into the government agreement, which provides that, in the third federal plan to combat poverty, the Minister of Social Integration must examine whether the regulation of integration income is still appropriate to the current forms of common life and/or care or whether other objectives need to be set? Are CPAS obliged to respond to this questionnaire? I turn to the issue of volunteerism and community service. Before the decree and circular appeared, it was clear that some municipalities were about to replace the jobs covered by the provisions of Article 60 with the use of Community service. My questions relate to this compatibility between the legislation on volunteering/volunteerism and the legislation on the possibility for a beneficiary of integration income to engage in voluntary or voluntary activity. It should be noted that accepting a volunteer appointment rather than a vacation job penalized a student. It should also be noted that, through certain dimensions of the CPAS legislation, volunteering can be seen as a hijacking of the workplace or job search. Your circular and your order specify certain elements but not sufficiently, I believe. That's why I wanted to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u4	Madam President, I had planned to answer in order of the questions, but I will start with yours. As you know and as you have pointed out, we have made progress since the adoption of the law of 21 July 2016, with its entry into force governed by the Royal Decree of 3 October, published on 11 October in the Moniteur belge. The Royal Decree mentioned provides that the Act will come into force on November 1, 2016, and December 1, 2016, as I mentioned earlier, with respect to the beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. This order was also discussed with the CPAS federations. I stress that we have very regular consultations with them, even if, of course, consultation does not mean that we are still in agreement, far from it. In the area of information and training, a major effort is planned. That seems entirely legitimate to me. First of all, a tour of the country is organized in which my administration will provide information in each of the stages. In addition, training will be provided by CPAS federations. Those responsible for the inspection of the Social Integration PPS and representatives of my firm will participate in the various training courses. In addition, there is the possibility of this exchange forum with the SPP Social Integration. I myself have participated in some of these meetings and will continue to participate in the future. As far as the IPIS model is concerned, a proposal has been made to the CPAS, but I insist: it is only an example of a basic outline, which takes up the points to be discussed and discussed between the social worker and the beneficiary. This is certainly not a standardized computer questionnaire. This would really be contrary to the reform, to its spirit and to the way I see the work being done within the framework of ISIPs. In fact, they must first be oriented to support the social, occupational and socio-professional integration of beneficiaries of integration income, and to empower them in the context of working with social workers. As far as we are concerned, the aim is indeed to define all the objectives I have mentioned, and to draw up the framework for achieving them. I strongly insist: the objective is in no way a standardisation, but a customisation of PIIS, as explicitly provided for in Article 18/1 of the Royal Decree of 2002, introduced by the Royal Decree of 3 October 2016. Madam President, you are giving me the opportunity to insist. I don't need standard forms just to get the 10%. The 10% subsidy is linked to community, quality and substantive work. If we've cleared up some money, it's to help the CPAS take over. I also recall the monitoring that I mentioned earlier, which will be a tool of transparency, first of all for the benefit of the CPAS and at their disposal. I devote a lot of attention to it. I come to the definition of the notions of equity and health. As in the previous version of the 2002 Act, there is no definition of these concepts, which fall within the discretion of the CPAS and its autonomy. The reason is simple: the CPAS must carry out a social survey to do so. Of course, our services are responsible for framing this definition and answering questions from CPAS. You asked an interesting question about the study. I have already said this in the context of a debate or a question: when we have worked on other issues, which are important issues, we want to examine how we can adapt the regulation of the right to social integration to the current forms of common life. This is also reflected in the government agreement. It is a reform that is not easy at all to carry out, to imagine. To this end, a study has been launched on the various new situations encountered by CPAS in connection with applications for the right to social integration covered by the Act of May 2002. The analysis focuses in particular on the study of the hypothesis of persons and the situation of persons for whom the current categories of the law do not adequately or adequately respond to their situation, whether because of family developments, changes in housing, etc. We are at the stage of reflection, and I invite those members of the committee who have ideas in this regard not to hesitate to pass them on to me so that we can incorporate them into our analyses. To this end, a questionnaire was sent to CPAS. There is no obligation to respond. My approach is totally positive and forward-looking. My only objective is to improve legislation. That is why I seek your opinions, your analyses and your proposals, if you so wish. As far as community service is concerned, I would like to point out that it consists of carrying out activities on a voluntary basis. They must contribute positively to the individual's personal development path and to the community and society. We have provided for the guarantees to do so in the legal provisions. I stress that the goal is not to make occupation. I read terrible things in some comments, which really shocked me. It was said that I had organized a form of forced labour, that I was going to change the traditional labour market, and so many other things. I invite you to read the texts that have been written. They bring all the appeasements regarding community service. Of course, from the moment that we commit ourselves – this is the accountability pillar of my policy – from the moment that the social worker has considered that community service is a positive tool in the context of the recipient's personal journey, we must respect his commitments. It is possible to be warned, accompanied in this process. I know that these audiences are fragile, sometimes very fragile. I also expect this community service to be used appropriately by our social services. I have had the opportunity to tell all the interlocutors who have asked me about this. Mrs Van Peel, as far as your question on the GPMI for people with addiction is concerned, it is true that a GPMI can also be very useful for these people. In the letter, which I signed on 12 October last and which was sent to all OCMWs, I therefore refer explicitly to this situation as an example in which fairness can be applied differently, depending on whether it is an assessment of the willingness to work or whether a GPMI should be concluded. A GPMI should be closed according to the needs and possibilities of the person, in this case the drug addict. There is no provision for a specific GPMI for this target group. After all, in my reform, I introduced a simplification which means that today there is only a general GPMI and a GPMI student. This gives the necessary flexibility to the OCMWFs, who are closest to the persons in question, to make a customized GPMI. I stress that this fits in with my view of the GPMI as an accompanying instrument that supports both the social assistants and the beneficiaries. The OMCW is therefore free to fill in the GPMI with these persons, in whom one situation will differ from another. Among some, the GPMI will focus on finding and setting up aid to overcome addiction. For others, volunteering or community service can be a piste. For others, the emphasis will be on stabilising the home situation and family ties, or on a search for accommodation that the beneficiary can extract from a particular situation. Many OCMWFs have already built up a lot of experience in this area. For example, through the Working Group on Social Activation, in which various OCMWs participate, I intend to exchange experiences and best practices among themselves. The further description and exchange of best practices will also be an important element in the evaluation of the GPMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u5	Minister, I am actually pleased with your reply and also with your letter because you have also paid attention to this group within the living wage clients. I understand from your letter and from your reply that when an OCMW chooses not to set up a GPMI, this will have to be properly motivated and that it will not be enough to say that a particular client cannot be escorted to work immediately. I think that is very important, because it should not be the only purpose. After all, these people must not be unloaded more than other clients. I also understand very well that you cannot issue general rules, and I agree with that. After all, it would no longer be about customization. For each client, it is necessary to consider which is the best way forward and where exactly should be deployed. You have listed some slopes that can indeed be very correct for certain clients. The fact that it needs to be deployed should be an obligation for me. After all, there are many major differences between the different OCMWFs. I'm still sorry about that. I've said it before. I am an absolute supporter of the tailor-made work of OCMWFs, but this does not mean that we do not need a strict framework within which each OCMW works. That is also clear and one receives a similar treatment as a client, regardless of which OCMW one is going to knock at. The treatment is tailored, but to a greater or lesser extent the same. In my opinion, tailor-made work for an OCMW is not the same as being able to determine what is being wagered on and not on. That's the thought I'm making of this group. I certainly understand what you're saying, but for me, more can be framed. I am glad, however, that you have included it as an explicit example in your letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u6	Mr Minister, I wonder about the contradictions that might arise between the legislation on volunteering and the legislation on SIIP which incorporates the possibility of a Community service, on a voluntary basis, with the characteristics that are yours. An opinion was delivered by the Council of State on the draft royal decree. Is it possible to have this opinion? Does this opinion clarify these elements so that a beneficiary is not in conflict at any given time? Concerning the study, it is interesting to make compatible the new forms of common life and co-location with a desire to non-penalize people who try to pool costs. However, I do not think this is sufficiently explicit in the study sent to CPAS. As for your response to the standardized application review tool, I welcome it. Finally, did the Council of State address the question of possible contradictions between voluntary legislation and PIIS?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u7	There is indeed a passage in which the Council of State asked us about the articulation. Reference was made to the Law on Volunteering, removing the article that says volunteering is "voluntary". We were able to respond to the Council of State's remark by reflecting the voluntary nature of the conclusion of the Community service. But from the moment we commit ourselves to it, the commitment is binding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u8	Would it be possible to obtain this opinion from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u9	It's a arrest. I'll come back to you with my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, some foods contain nanomaterials, although this is not indicated on the label. However, according to a European regulation, any ingredient containing nanomaterials must be labelled as such, which seems not to be the case, particularly for certain brands of veal blanquette, chewing gums and biscuits. Minister, what are the dangers associated with the consumption of foods containing nanomaterials? What controls are being conducted to ensure that products containing nanomaterials are labelled as such? How many controls were conducted in 2015? What are the results? What are the penalties imposed on trademarks that have voluntarily or unintentionally forgotten to indicate the presence of these nanomaterials?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u11	Madam President, Minister, the French NGO Agir pour l'environnement recently conducted an analysis of several foods to verify whether they contained nanoparticles. The results of this analysis show that they all contain them. These adjuvants are used by industrialists to bleach food, change the colour of their dyes, fix moisture or prevent the agglomeration of powders. Although they are known to cross physical barriers, interfere with the immune system, enter blood vessels, lymphatic system and various organs, the health effects of these nanoparticles are not well known. Minister, have you been able to read the study I have just mentioned? What is your view of this study? Given the lack of knowledge on nanoparticles, would it not be wise to initiate a study on the subject? In a December 2012 report, WHO recommended the application of the precautionary principle on nanoparticles in food and drew attention to the vulnerability of children. Would you be prepared to follow the WHO recommendations in this regard? If so, what measures could be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your technical but extremely important questions. As is well known, the current European regulations require that foods manufactured from ingredients containing nanoparticles be specifically labelled with a view to fully informing consumers. It should be noted that food made up of nanoparticles is covered by European legislation on novel foods. Additives, flavourings and enzymes are covered by specific legislation. Therefore, in order to be used in food, new nano ingredients must be authorised as an additive or as a novel food. Operators who wish to market a food containing nanoparticles can only do so by obtaining a specific authorisation. This authorisation procedure at European level requires, inter alia, a risk assessment of nanoparticles. To date, no authorisation has been issued by the European Commission for a synthetic nanomaterial for use as a food, food additive or flavouring. As a result, the AFSCA does not control the labelling of nanomaterials in food because there are no nanomaterials in food. The study to which you refer refers to two additives authorised for human consumption: titanium dioxide (TIO2 for chemists) and silicon dioxide (SIO2 for biologists). At European level, a programme for the re-evaluation of all additives on the market is under way and applies in particular to these two specific additives. Titanium dioxide dye is of particular interest to us, since the study was carried out on the presence of titanium dioxide in a number of products, including biscuits, chewing gums and veal blanquette. According to the recent re-evaluation of this additive by EFSA, the European Food Safety Agency, nanoparticles account for a very small proportion of all particles in the additive, as also demonstrated in the French study. As regards safety aspects, EFSA concludes that the absorption of this additive is extremely low and does not differ between microparticles or nanoparticles of titanium dioxide. However, there is currently no validated detection method for routine screening of nanoparticles in food products. Several European laboratories are currently working and collaborating to develop such methods. The availability of these methods and the existence of accredited laboratories to carry out the analyses are therefore a prerequisite that I believe should be activated in order to enable an efficient control programme to be set up. This is therefore a dossier which I would like to be studied with the utmost seriousness on the basis of the precautionary principle. This is why, regardless of what I have just mentioned, the Public Health FPS has already funded various research projects on the characterization and methodology of nanomaterial risk assessment. A new project, referred to as "Nanofood" will soon begin with the aim of analysing nanoparticles in additives and food. During the visit to Belgium of Bernhard Url, Executive Director of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) last June, the principle of a joint project with EFSA to complete Nanofood was also concluded. Finally, I share the recommendations of caution that have been raised in this room and that have been issued by WHO. They are generally applied at European level and at Belgian level in particular, whether in the field of research or at regulatory level. We must therefore be extremely vigilant with regard to the assessment and prior authorisation of novel nano foods, new additives, re-evaluations of already authorised additives and their residual presence in food.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the completeness of your answer. Precautionary principle, serious, I think these are the terms you used for this case. We will therefore be able to continue to work on this subject. We look forward to this study. I share your analysis of the WHO. You have to be careful in this case. We have seen in your answer that this is your wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for these more than satisfactory elements of response: taking into account the difficulties that have been identified, following up on your part, working with Europe in this area and taking into account the WHO recommendations. I can only invite you to continue in this direction. That answer was so satisfying that I would like to have a copy of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u15	Question No 13564 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 13752 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u16	Madam President, Minister, a circular has recently been put in place by the AFSCA to regulate the distribution of products within short circuits. It defines the various criteria for which, in the context of a short circuit, a third party intervening between the producer and the consumer must declare its activity with the AFSCA. Clearly, where there is a reconditioning, transformation, division into portions or other type of intervention of a third party, the third party must register and may be subject to control. Some people working to set up short circuits and promote organic farming at the local level are concerned. I am thinking in particular of the common purchasing groups (CAGs), groups of citizens who buy fruit and vegetables directly from the farmer and who are apprehensive of the steps to be taken or the possible sanctions. There are a large number of associations which carry out this kind of citizen's approach and which will be affected by this measure. Minister, this case has already been going through a lot of ink in the last few weeks. Therefore, I would like to get clear answers from you in order to reassure the common purchasing groups. Will the latter actually be affected by this circular? If so, what kind of controls can they expect? How do we judge that such manipulation or intervention requires registration with the AFSCA? Could the GACs be reassured following the meeting held on Tuesday, September 20 with the AFSCA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u17	Mr President, at the meeting on 20 September referred to, it turned out that the scope of the circular to which you refer was not sufficiently clear. The circular refers to the action of third parties in the context of trade in products. Since a CBM is a consumer group, CBM members feel that there is no third party within their organization and therefore do not feel concerned. AFSCA does not intervene if the activities fall within the private sphere. Initiatives accessible to the public, for example through an advertisement on a website, are not, however, private initiatives. It was therefore necessary to clarify things a little. In all cases, the method of distribution within CBMs is not private. It is intended, however, to exempt these consumer groups, as they wished, from the obligation to register and pay a contribution, provided, of course, that the initiative comes from consumers who come together to buy from known producers, provided that there is no commercial activity and that there is a clear agreement between the members of these groups as to the responsibility for the distribution of the products purchased. As a result, these groups will not be controlled by the AFSCA, except as part of a normal approach if there was food poisoning from a GAC, or on the basis of a complaint. I think I'm quite soothing. The president had also asked me about the matter, she had given me a bit in the media, and I informed her about the progress of the case. The Royal Decree of 16 January 2006 laying down the procedures for authorisations, authorisations and prior registrations issued by the AFSCA, which provides for the registration of operators active in the food chain, will therefore be amended to implement the exemption which I have just mentioned very clearly, after consultation. The circular will then be adapted to implement the regulatory amendment, since the circular necessarily refers to the legal framework. At the last meeting on this subject, on 20 September, the representatives of the CAGs responded very positively to this proposed regulatory amendment. If there were to be some problems, I would obviously be listening, but at this point I do not detect any.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u18	Minister, your answer will prevent me from titillating you as soothing as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u19	You did well to come to committee the first week of September. Look at the beautiful evolution of your texts! That said, these discussions were also an opportunity to highlight the "small producers" unit that you are in the process of forming within the AFSCA. I was informed that it would soon be complete. It seems to me wise to organise an exchange in committee with this cell to discuss its objectives and method of work, for example in December or January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u20	Mr Minister, I may be elucidating some of the points in my question, since this has been the subject of a rather lively debate, following a bill tabled by a colleague from the N-VA in the Committee on Terrorism. Nevertheless, there are some elements that deserve to be observed and to receive a semblance of response, at least in your leadership, since you were not present in the debate, or even the Minister of Justice. Depending on the proposed law, which has the support of the majority, and therefore also of the government, the King's prosecutor, as well as the labour auditor, could require information from social security institutions and thus social workers, and they would have an obligation to communicate to the courts, facts or elements that might lead to believe that there is a link with terrorist acts. In addition, a circular would be sent to the institutions concerned to explain the change, since there would be the inclusion of new provisions in the Code of Criminal Investigation, to enable the King's Prosecutor to request information from social security institutions. Training would also be provided for social workers. Beyond the whole debate on professional secrecy, the unanimous opinions of CPAS federations, the federations felt that better collaboration between the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale and the judicial authorities would have been the solution to be put in place rather than the amendment of the law. This would ensure that the professional secrecy of social workers is respected, which is the key to good understanding and trust between beneficiaries and social workers. This trust, already so fragile, may break if denunciation is an integral part of the work of social workers. The brief introduction I have just made is not about the debate about professional secrecy, whether to keep it or not, but about the following questions. Why didn't you decide to facilitate the collaboration between the Social Security Carrefour Bank and Justice? Not only can the King's prosecutor request information, but there is an obligation to denunciate. On the basis of what criteria will social workers be able to distinguish between those they might suspect belonging to a terrorist organization and others? In the debate on the bill, although we are questioning the authors, we are not getting answers, and on the other hand, there is no intervention on the part of your representatives in this matter. What would be the financial means in place for training for social workers? What would this training consist of?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u21	This important issue has been the subject of a large number of debates, questions, fears and sometimes requests from social workers and CPAS. It refers to an extremely delicate, sometimes dramatic reality that we have already faced. I would point out from the outset that there is no question of calling into question the fundamental principle of the professional secrecy of social workers, which is necessary for the exercise of their mission, as in other professions. However, the legislator – and I share this conviction – cannot accept that professional secrecy is an obstacle to the communication of information, when the life or physical integrity of people is at risk or risk of being put at risk. The dossier of professional secrecy within the CPAS is divided into two parts: on the one hand, the exchange of data between administrations and, on the other, the adjustment of the existing legal framework. On the first point, my administration has been working with the FPS Justice on possible solutions, in order to enable an effective fight or to participate in the fight against terrorism or related acts, while preserving the professional secrecy of social workers. The idea evoked, in particular by the CPAS federations, in their response to my request, is the implementation of data flows between the SPP Social Integration and the SPF Justice. This implementation of the data flow is currently under review. Indeed, these data flows have the advantage of allowing rapid information to be obtained from a single institution, namely the Social Integration PPS, and it is therefore not necessary to identify the competent CPAS in order to obtain information. However, the effective implementation of these data flows takes time and also requires the prior approval of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and the realization of computer developments. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the data available by computer flow relate only to information encoded by the CPAS in the context of an application by the Belgian State for assistance in the reimbursement of the aid granted by the CPAS. These data flows therefore do not include a number of other information such as, of course, findings which could be drawn up by social workers or communications or information which they have collected. CPAS federations, as you know, do not share our view. They expressed themselves very clearly in this regard. However, in this case, I hope that we can move forward on this issue. I therefore call for an adaptation of the legal framework, which I believe is necessary. In this respect, I have written to the Chairman of the Committee on Terrorism and, in consultation with my colleague from Justice, have submitted a proposal, which is itself based on the opinion of the College of Attorneys General. These elements have already been discussed, I believe, on 28 September in the Committee on Justice. As you indicated, a bill has been tabled. It aims at the lifting of professional secrecy in the fight against terrorism. Its scope is therefore narrower than the proposal made by the College of Attorneys General. The Minister of Justice and I joined the parliamentary text. It establishes a communication of information at the request of the King's prosecutor and another initiative. This law does not, therefore, in general call into question professional secrecy, but makes use of the possibility provided for in article 458 of the Criminal Code to derogate from it by means of a law. This proposal has been the subject of several requests for further information and work, in particular by the Council of State. As far as I am concerned, I would even like to go further than acts strictly linked to terrorism, because the most serious acts, involving the lives or physical integrity of persons, seem to me to have to be targeted as well - apart from acts strictly connected with terrorism. At this stage, of course, the priority is to be able to respond to the concern in this area. I am therefore very careful, and in feeding on the work, the analysis carried out by the ad hoc committee of our Parliament. As soon as the legal texts are laid down, I will have the opportunity to consult the CPAS federations and to provide the appropriate circulars to inform them and the information and/or training arrangements for CPAS, social workers or their representative structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u22	I did not want to repeat the general debate on professional secrecy, its scope, why it should be kept, whether it should be amended or not, whether there should be exceptions, etc. I had limited myself to very specific questions. The minister decides to put his vision of things back on the table, I will allow myself to put my vision of things back on the table, whereas at the beginning, that was not what I wanted to do. I will be synthetic, Madam President, but when I hear that, I find it quite contradictory to come and say, "I don't want to be touched on professional secrecy, but I finally empty it of its substance". You will excuse me, but we are still in this situation where the professional secrecy of tomorrow will no longer exist at all, in any case in the head of a whole series of social workers in various sectors, especially that of social security, since this is aimed not only at social workers but also at those who work in the social security sector. I believe that in other countries, at other times in history, some have wanted systematic control of everything that could happen. Some have decided that civil servants should be delegating agents. We're really not far from it. I find this particularly dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u23	Are you confirming this nauseous comparison?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u24	Let me finish! I find it particularly dangerous for democracy to move towards this sense of history. It's a first element. I take my word and I'm sorry to have to say it. I didn't want to repeat the debate, but you pushed me into it. Secondly, in terms of professional secrecy, when we limit ourselves to stating certain elements, the least we can do is to try to clarify them. Here, we have a particularly broad and extensive conception. I have just heard that we would not limit ourselves to acts of terrorism, which is the exception and the bill. I understand that people are afraid, not just social workers, but CPAS federations. I understand that tomorrow we do not necessarily want to seek the opinion of the Privacy Commission because we are considering crimes and offences, but we go even further with social fraud and what could be suspected of social fraud. That's what the Minister of Justice said!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u25	Excuse me, Madam Chair, did I say we don't want to ask the Privacy Commission for advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u26	You referred to the question I asked the Minister of Justice. I would like to share with you the Minister of Justice's response to other crimes and offences. You said you were working together on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u27	Mr Massin, since the last word belongs to the parliamentarian, I will briefly give the minister the floor for clarification, since he does not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u28	I'll only need 30 seconds. First, we have the ambition to exchange and respect each other's assertions in this House. Secondly, Mr Massin, it would be elegant for you to withdraw your comparison, which refers to a nauseous period of history. She's unworthy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u29	It's not just the one you're thinking about. Do you know that this was the way it was in communist regimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u30	I pointed out precisely that we were going to seek the advice of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u31	That should already be the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u32	I have pointed out, as far as I am concerned, that these are the most serious facts; I am not talking about crimes and social fraud. Would you consider it correct that I am left with my arms crossed by the knowledge that some social workers may be aware, indirectly, of serious evidence or facts, and cannot be released from professional secrecy? I refuse to resign in the face of this political courage, which I also ask you to adopt, Mr Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u33	I haven't finished my explanation. Madam President, the minister must learn to listen. The Chair: We need to know how to do it on both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u34	I have listened to the whole of his explanation, which lasted much longer than my question. He should take the trouble of listening before reacting immediately like a bull, wanting to have the last word and taking the step on others. Maybe we could make some progress, then. I made it clear that you were talking about the most serious crimes and crimes. I made it clear that "the Minister of Justice, for his part, spoke of social fraud". These are the words of the Minister of Justice. I didn't accuse you of talking about social fraud. Listen to what I'm saying! As part of my references to something "nauseabund", I have just told you that other political systems have built this system, whether in South Africa, Communist China, the Soviet Union, the GDR, Czechoslovakia or, at present, North Korea. Don't you always refer to a particularly black period that began in the 1930s and ended in 1945? There are many more. You will excuse me, what is happening today, I say to myself that it is a danger to democracy, and I have the opportunity to say so. You don't agree with me, it's your right and I recognize it. But you also have an obligation to respect what I say. That is also democracy. Minister, it seems to be forgotten, in relation to crimes and offences, and crimes that constitute acts of terrorism, that there is already an obligation in the Code of Criminal Investigation to denunciate the worker. This obligation goes up the chain by public institutions, whether the worker deals with it directly or whether it takes place through the director or, for example, in a CPAS, the president of the CPAS. The Code of Criminal Investigation already provides for the reporting of crimes and offences. In addition to this, it is true that in order to obtain other types of information, one can go through the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, or even through a circular which invites CPAS to respond systematically to requests made by the auditorate. I would like to make it clear to you that the extreme majority of CPAS are already doing so. Today, since you wish to reorganise a general debate, I consider that your plan is to kill a fly, not with a cannon, but with an atomic bomb!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u35	We will close this subject for today, but the issue of the global approach to professional secrecy will come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u37	There is freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u38	[[...]] There's a censor here called the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u39	You had the floor because you were able to answer and reply. Next time, I will be inaugurating the wonderful system that is allowed to me, which consists of cutting off all the microphones except mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u40	Before passing the floor to the last two speakers, like Ms. Gantois, who had a question on RHD2 virus, was absent for the second time without warning, her question No. 13172 was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u41	Madam Chair, Minister, before the parliamentary holidays, I asked you about the AFSCA restructuring plan. Indeed, the Commission does not escape a restructuring of its services justified by budget cuts. I asked you for further information but you were not yet able to answer me. We were at the beginning of the process. Indeed, you requested further analysis in order to obtain detailed information that would allow you to take a position on this file. Minister, do you now have any further analyses? What does this mean? If not, when will they be available? What is your position in this file? Have you met with the sector about this restructuring plan? What about it? Is the assumption of a merger conceivable? How will the organisation of work on the ground be reorganized following the restructuring? Can you tell me when the restructuring will start if it takes place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u42	Minister, as my colleague has said, the BFSA is reorganising its external services. In the future, it will no longer work with provincially organized control units, but with larger units. For West Flanders, Antwerp, the Brussels-Capital Region and Liège nothing changes, but apparently for Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant, Namur, Luxembourg, East Flanders and Limburg. In concrete terms, Walloon Brabant, together with most of Namur, will form a new control unit. Four municipalities in the province of Namur are added to the Luxembourg control unit. The west of Flemish Brabant together with East Flanders will form a control unit. Finally, the east of Flemish Brabant is grouped with Limburg. My question concerns the reorganisations. There is a great deal of uncertainty today, and there is concern about staff. On 11 October it was announced that mergers would take place, but staff will not be informed until 26 October. That's gonna cause some nervousness. After all, we are still in the dark about who is going to go where. Moreover, it is still a question of where, for example, the new headquarters of the control unit will be located in eastern Flemish Brabant/Limburg. Mr Minister, why was this reorganisation chosen? What parameters were used for this? What savings could be made from this? What added value will these larger units generate compared to the provincially organised control units? What guarantees do you have that checks and inspections on operators will be organised in the same way after the reorganisation? What parameters are used for the redistribution of auditors? The agency did announce that there would be no layoffs. That is a good thing, but is there sufficient staff guaranteed on all echelons? What guarantees do you have that the reorganisation will not have a negative impact on the quality of the controls, the frequency of inspections, the administrative processing and the follow-up of non-conformitys? Will the financial resources remain guaranteed? What budgets are we talking about? Why is Leuven declared as head office? Where will the headquarters of the new control unit be located in eastern Flemish Brabant/Limburg?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u43	Mrs Van Hoof, with a view to adapting to a series of developments and needs, particularly in the area of budgetary constraints, a new organisation of the outdoor services of the BFSA was decided and announced on 11 October. In the future, the agency will no longer work with provincially organised control units, but with larger units. It is important to optimise the critical mass in terms of staff and to retain the powers within each control unit. The redistribution was based on the occupation per control unit and on a good geographical distribution of the implantations. The geographical distribution took into account implantations in all regions of Belgium, accessibility and optimal mobility. The regrouping will entail lower housing costs and operating costs and reduced management in the outdoor services, which will allow, among other things, the level of occupancy on the site. As regards Hainaut, Liège, the Brussels-Capital region, West Flanders and Antwerp, the situation will remain unchanged. However, as you mentioned, as far as Walloon Brabant is concerned and most of Namur province, they will be grouped together to form a single control unit. In addition, four communes in the province of Namur (Beauraing, Gedinne, Bièvres and Vresse-sur-Semois) will be connected with the control unit of Luxembourg which is maintained, particularly in view of the presence of a very recent building and, moreover, in view of the large geographical distances which this province takes over. The west of Flemish Brabant together with East Flanders will form a control unit. The east of Flemish Brabant and Limburg will also be grouped. For this latter regrouping, a new installation will be chosen together with the Buildings Regie van Bouwpen, which allows for an optimal organisation of the work. In the careful analysis of the dossier, I have paid a great deal of attention to the relationship with the operators and the well-being of the staff, which I regard as two absolute priorities. The recommended solution reduces the impact on the daily life of the staff to a minimum and at the same time meets the objective of optimizing the services of the BFSA. The new organization doesn't involve dismissals. The BFSA will maintain the same availability for the actors and also commit itself to providing the same quality of service, both for citizens and for operators. There will therefore be no negative impact on the sectors concerned. The transition from the old to the new organisation will be transparent and smooth for consumers and operators. Controls and inspections at operators will be organised in the same way. The operation of the inspectors and inspectors remains the same. They will report to another management structure. The actual implementation of this restructuring will take a few more months and will involve an amendment to the Royal Decree of 20 December 2007 establishing the place of establishment, organisation and operation of the AFSCA. Among the staff, I also wanted to see the possibility of mobility to other decentralized AFSCA headquarters for staff members who would like to or to the headquarters, and to have personalized support for each of the situations. Moreover, with regard to itinerant personnel, inspectors, most of whom are not fixed, of course, geographically, so that they have little impact on their personal situation. I hope that I have answered all the legitimate questions that are yours or those of the staff. I am, of course, at their disposal as the deputy head of the PSAB to answer all questions, but also to respond to any concerns, requests or specific situations that may be raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u44	Madam President, I thank the Minister for the completeness of his answer. I realize that it is clear that consultation has been necessary. You are telling us that the service will be fully respected, that there will be no dismissal and that the well-being of the staff has been thought out in consultation with you and the administration. I can understand that we need to reorganize services. This is part of a government mission and I think this is going to be a successful outcome. There will probably be an adaptation on the ground, but I have heard from you that listening, if there is a problem, was really open with regard to the management of this dossier, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that lower housing costs, lower operating costs and lower management costs are at the root of the restructuring. It is good that you attach great importance to contacts with the operators on the ground as well as to the well-being of the staff. In particular, you want to ensure that there are no redundancies and that mobility and choice are taken into account if the persons concerned wish to move to their headquarters. Of course, this brings with it some nervousness, because apparently the decision will not be communicated until 26 October 2016. Has it been decided for Leuven what other headquarters will be? You did not answer that question. When is this going to be looked at? Do you have a visual on that? You did not answer the question. I would therefore like to ask whether there is more clarity as to when this is to be decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u46	That will be decided later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic510x.u47	Will the decision be made in 2016? You don't know that. The decision comes later. In that case, we look forward to the decision about the headquarters, as Leuven is an important hospitality city, where many food operators are active. I will keep an eye on the file and will re-interrogate you at the appropriate time, when you have made the decision.
