ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u1	Madam Secretary, I will be very brief. When I submitted this question on 7 December, we could read here and there that there might also be radicalised workers in the railways. Since terrorist level 3 is still in force, it seems to me appropriate to put the question here orally. Are those allegations true that there are effectively radicalised workers working on our railways? During our visit to the Security Operations Center of Securail, we have seen that this is actually a very difficult matter. How do we track it down? What criteria are used? What systems have been developed in this respect? A third aspect. There are people working with security clearance. How does the succession of these workers take place after they have been granted the security clearance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the events of recent months have encouraged Infrabel to consolidate security policy through various measures relating to both infrastructure and ICT and staff. All this is done with respect for privacy and applicable legal obligations in this respect. The conditions of admission for recruitment are currently limited to citizenship of the European Union and to the presentation of proof of good conduct and morals. Currently HR Rail, SNCB and Infrabel are working intensively with the FOD to introduce an approach to screen the most relevant professions. The screenings would initially be conducted with the employees with a safety function. In addition, security awareness and a permanent awareness raising of our employees for suspicious situations or individuals are the spearheads of Infrabel's security policy. This is achieved in all possible ways. Finally, an internal security organisation is being developed within Infrabel in which local security responsibilities will play a crucial role in raising awareness and reporting suspicious situations. SNCB does not have data to assume that there would be radicalised workers working on the Belgian Railways. All candidates for a job at the Belgian Railways will perform eliminating fitness tests and non-eliminating knowledge tests and will also fill out a non-eliminating personal questionnaire, built around the following three domains: thinking, attitude in relation to others and the handling of feelings and emotions. Candidates who pass the fitness tests are invited to a meeting with a selection jury. During that conversation the following points will be tested: motivation, interest in the function, technical knowledge, the ability to learn and the necessary behavioral competence such as self-control and safety sense. In addition, a code of conduct was also published with concerns about behaviour between fellow Members of the European Parliament and third parties. I quote: "Every employee must pay attention to the workplace to avoid any discrimination or unwanted behaviour by using words or acts, in particular as regards age, nationality, ethnic, social or cultural origin, gender, belief or political belief. In the event of a breach of this code of conduct, disciplinary sanctions are possible and there is also the possibility of civil or criminal prosecution in the event of a breach of the law. In cooperation with the Minister for the Interior, I am currently completing the procedure for security verification, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 11 December 1998 on the classification of safety clearances, safety attestations and safety advice for the application of the railway domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I conclude, firstly, that there is currently no indication that there are radicalised workers and, secondly, that a policy has been developed in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, when I asked you about the status of the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons railway line almost a year ago, you gave me some elements of an answer that would give me hope for a positive outcome. Indeed, you confirmed to me that Wallonia had indeed taken over the project to reopen the Valenciennes-Mons line in the list of Walloon priorities in the multi-year investment plan 2013-2025. And, above all, you told me that the negotiations between the federal government and the Regions to define a budget with a view to finally reopening this line were "on track". Today, almost a year after your answer, little information is available on the implementation of this dossier. Except for the fact that the 2013-2025 investment plan would be less ambitious, with the risk that the deadline for the reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes line would be extended and even thrown into oblivion. What exactly is the situation, minister? Is this still one of the priorities of the investment plan negotiated between your government and the Regions? What is your position on this? Has a decision been taken on the setting of an investment expenditure schedule for the preparation of the financial plans of SNCB and Infrabel? What about the Valenciennes-Mons line in this agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u5	Madam President, in your strategic vision for rail, you announced the creation of a special investment cell, with representatives of SNCB, Infrabel and the three Regions. This cell would be entrusted with the preparation of a new multi-annual investment plan for the period 2016-2020. With some delay, this cell has apparently started. Is it true that the Federal Investment Cell Analysis Committee met for the first time on 16 December last year? Is it true that a second meeting of the analysis committee will take place on 18 January? Have meetings also been established for the Federal Investment Cell Strategic Committee? Is there a formal written report of the meeting of the analysis committee? If so, could you briefly explain this orally? What themes were discussed? Have any decisions been taken on the budget? Finally, what is the state of play of the new multi-annual investment plan? In other words, is there any more clarity about the location of regional priority rail projects in that plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I do not know what is most important, my question about Mol-Hamont or the investment plan. First of all, I agree with what Mr Raskin said. I, too, want to clarify the multiannual investment plan. It is reported that an administrative meeting has now taken place. Last year I asked a few times to clarify the timing. After all, it is important, especially now that 2016 has already started, for companies to be clear about the investment plan for this year and the coming years. In short, what is the state of play? What's the timing? When will you effectively come up with that plan? I also have a number of specific questions about the budget. What budget is foreseen? We have received a number of tables in the discussion of the budget. Are those the tables that people are working effectively with? I also wonder how the 60/40 ratio is calculated here. As I have said on several occasions, the maintenance of a number of rural lines in Wallonia is an important issue in terms of investment and exploitation. In previous years, however, the 60/40 ratio could only be respected by launching new projects in Flanders. Is the starting point still the same? Is it being watched every year? What available projects, previously decided, are now included in the export plan in 2016 or starting in 2016 and exports in the following years? I shall now turn specifically to Mol-Hamont. On 9 December the line Herentals-Mol was solemnly opened. All those present were very satisfied that this step was taken, but the demand for the continuation of the project remains. I've put them here three or four times. On 16 December, you received a petition with 5 000 signatures from the Association for Passenger Trains from the region, which demonstrates its support. That's why I'm specifically asking about that project. I've done that several times, because I know the cost of 35 million. Where is the investment cell and when can it be clarified to the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u7	Mr President, I can indeed confirm that the administrative and technical level of the investment cell met for the first time on Wednesday 16 December 2015. The meeting was chaired by the FPS Mobility and Transport and was attended by the representatives of the three Regions, Infrabel and SNCB. During the meeting, among other things, the methodology for analysing the project proposals was proposed and discussed. Based on this methodology, the aim is to submit all project proposals for the future multi-annual investment plan 2016-2020 to a multi-criteria analysis. The objective data will thus be provided for making choices for the strategic level of the investment cell. The analysis is carried out on the basis of project sheets covering the various proposals. As of December 16, 2015, the FPS recorded about 50. A part was also transmitted to the Regions. A formally approved minutes of this meeting are not yet available. At a second meeting of the technical-administrative level of the Investment Unit, to be held on Monday 18 January, a detailed examination will be devoted to the fact sheets which have been transmitted to the Regions and experts will provide further explanations on the questions asked. On the planning for the meetings of the strategic level of the investment cell, I can tell you that it has not yet come together. The investment cell has therefore so far not taken a concrete decision on the proposals of the investment projects. I can inform you that the projects concerning the further electrification of the Mol-Hamont line and the reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes line will also be covered in the investment cell. It is, however, premature to comment on this at the moment. Key 40/60 will be respected for all railways. The work of the investment itself is part of the work to establish a multi-annual investment plan for the period 2016-2020 and is conducted in parallel with the negotiations for new management contracts with Infrabel and SNCB. Mr Thiébaut, you in my region know that France and Belgium support this project. It will be examined within the investment unit where – as I recall – the Regions are present and where they can defend themselves the priorities they have put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u8	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I understand that a number of project proposals have already been tabled. I hear there's Mol-Hamont in there, among other things. It's guessing for the time being to the other projects. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise the following. I can imagine that SNCB and Infrabel already have a number of federal projects between these 50 proposals, including safety and so on. I do not deny the importance of this, but I would like to reiterate the importance of regional rail priorities. These investments are important and we want to further strengthen economic growth not only for Flanders but also for Wallonia. I'm gonna lance for my county again. Limburg was put at a disadvantage in terms of rail accessibility for years. I hope that you will clarify this very quickly and that what needs to be done, including in the peripheral provinces, will indeed be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I fully agree that a social cost-benefit analysis should be carried out for each project, on the basis of several criteria. I have two further questions. Firstly, you say 50 projects are being submitted. Are there already existing projects or are they 50 new projects? Are these existing projects which are now being rolled out and asking for a continuation or are they a catalogue of new projects? What is the budgetary relationship between the investment resources of what has already been launched in previous years and the available capacity to launch new projects? Secondly, you say that the 60/40 ratio at Infrabel should be looked at in the totality of society over the period 2016-2020. Does that mean that this 60/40 ratio is now being considered over the years 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 or is that 60/40 ratio considered annually? That's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u11	The Regions are represented for the first time. That's my political choice. That's very important. They can defend their priorities there. I think it is really new that the Regions can participate directly. Previously, we had a catalogue of proposals that were totally unrealistic, unrealistic, without consultation. At least now, the Regions are here to defend the projects they consider to be priorities. I can assure you that I will ensure that there is a balance between all regions. They are representatives of Infrabel, SNCB, the Regions... This analysis is technical, administrative. A more strategic analysis will then be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u12	Do you still have an answer to my two questions about the 50 projects and the 60/40 key? That answer is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u13	To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u14	Madam Minister, every Sunday at the end of the day, thousands of students take the train to the stations in the province of Luxembourg to return to the capital where they continue their higher education. Arlon-Brussels represents a three-hour journey. It appears that from the first stops, the train is crowded and the seats are missing. This situation is not new, it has been like this for years! There are six trains in total between 16h32 and 20h32 between Arlon and Brussels. The most problematic trains are those of 17h32 and 18h32 because they bring together the passengers of Arlon/Libramont who leave early to not arrive too late in their kot in Brussels or Louvain-la-Neuve. The number of seats available is clearly insufficient. Students are piled up in trains that are often too small or unsuitable for the situation. Because, who says a student traveling, ex officio says a suitcase. SNCB's spokesperson said that today, in terms of capacity, we would now reach a limit. The majority of trains are in maximum composition and there is no longer much room for more seats. Madam Minister, what is your position on this problem of overoccupation of trains on the Arlon-Brussels line on Sunday night? What are you planning to propose in order to offer these students a trip in good conditions? Are solutions being considered within the SNCB? If so, which ones? Is it possible, however, to lengthen some trains? Adding a train? To plan a direct train Arlon-Namur?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u15	Dear colleague, sometimes your questions give me the impression that I am in the signal booth. SNCB informs me that on Sunday evening, during the school period, it offers between 16:32 and 20:32, from Arlon, some 5,490 seats spread over six trains. SNCB's statistics indicate that the average occupancy of these trains on the busiest section of the line is 4,269 passengers. As a result, more than 1,220 seats remain available during this slot. The offer can therefore be considered sufficient according to SNCB. In addition, since the new transport plan, the number of seats during this four-hour time range has been increased by 252 places, notably via train P-8621 which departs from Arlon at 6 p.m. This train, consisting of nine two-level cars, offers 1,152 seats and runs between the International 90 of 1732 and the IC 2141 of 1832 in Arlon. However, despite the information campaign, the average occupancy of this train P-8621 is only 50%. As of April 2016, an increase in the number of places offered on Sunday evening will be considered as part of the adaptations related to the abolition of international trains beyond Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u16	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Indeed, there are six trains between 4:32 p.m. and 8:32 p.m. but the most problematic are those of 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. There is therefore a strong concentration on these two trains and it is on this time slot that the supply should be improved. We will see what will be proposed next April. I will not fail to return to you if the problem persists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u17	Madam Minister, every day more than 30 000 Belgian workers cross the border to Luxembourg, which leads to a saturation of the roads at the level of this cross-border area. In order to improve mobility between the southern region of the province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy, an agreement was reached between the Walloon government and the Luxembourg administration. The first concrete act is the realization of a Strategic Schematic of Cross-border Mobility (SMOT) whose objective is to allow coordination between the parties, in a logic of complementarity, attractiveness and performance. The study will take account of the Walloon and Luxembourg planning documents and will aim to allow for a gradual increase in the modal shift from the individual car to alternative means of transport (public transport, carpooling, soft mobility, car-ports, etc.).). According to the Luxembourg authorities, the establishment of a SMOT with French Lorraine has considerably improved the situation for cross-border mobility. The Belgian-Luxembourg initiative should therefore, in the long term, meet the real need of the inhabitants of the Belgian province of Luxembourg and help to reduce congestion in the city of Luxembourg. On 22 January 2013, the Memorandum of Understanding was signed. The study is therefore currently under way. The Commission was headed by a study office involving, inter alia, SNCB and to take into account existing data and documents in order to draw its conclusions. The SMOT is now in the final stage. Discussions on concrete proposals for action between Belgium, Wallonia and the Grand Duchy should take place shortly. Minister, SNCB is directly involved in this study. It seems that you have only been informed of this very recently. What initiatives have you taken or intend to take under the TOMS?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u18	SNCB did participate in the steering group for the establishment of the SMOT. In the first phase, all existing studies on passenger flows and volumes between the two countries were collected and evaluated. No new origin and destination analyses were conducted in this study. In a second phase, the major challenges in terms of mobility were identified. Phase 3 provides a catalogue of measures. SNCB encourages the establishment of a cross-border bus line between Belval-Université and Arlon, as included in the study. Furthermore, the creation of a P+R in Stockem-Viville can offer advantages to transport commuters by train to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The relocation of the Stockem workshops will free up a large area of land in the immediate vicinity of the Viville stop. It will be possible to set up a P+R in a few hundred parking spaces to bring passengers to Luxembourg. In order to improve the supply of trains, infrastructure adaptations will have to be carried out at the stop point. The success of the P+R for potential users and its attractiveness vis-à-vis the nearby Arlon station are conditioned by technical and commercial points, such as the possible service, the number of trains and frequencies and the parking-subscription rate. All these elements are discussed as part of the preparation of the future management contract. Infrabel is in the process of modernizing the 162 railway line between Namur and Luxembourg. Good accessibility of the Rodange P+R via the N380 route from Belgium is a point of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u20	Madam Minister, in April I asked you about the problem of Desiro trains which cannot run in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for reasons of approval. As you know, the issue of the approval of Desiro trainsets has been on the table for many years. While they have been at several times "on the point" of being certified, they are still not. We know that there is a problem of compatibility between Belgian and Grand-Ducal security systems. The Desiro motors, which are equipped with the ETCS system and not with the Luxembourg Memor II+ system, can only be certified on the Luxembourg network when it is equipped with the ETCS. In the answer to my question, you explained to me that you were waiting for documents that would then allow SNCB to finalize the tenders for the certification of the rolling stock concerned and to place an order to the manufacturer as it will be responsible for the certification of the equipment. Minister, I come back to you on this issue of certification. What is the current status of the case? Did you receive the documents you were talking about? If so, has SNCB finalized the bid requests? Are you aware of any brakes that would prevent this certification? Are there any problems other than those related to adaptation to the ETCS system? I heard about the December 2019 registration date. I hope it's a mistake and you're able to give me a closer date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u21	Mr President, dear colleague, the Luxembourg infrastructure manager has made its requirements public. SNCB transmitted the information in its possession to the manufacturer. SNCB asked Siemens to submit an offer. Commercial discussions are still under way with Siemens. The conditions issued by Siemens for the time being are unacceptable to SNCB. There are no problems other than those related to adaptation to the ETCS system. The date of approval will depend on the technical and commercial conditions to be submitted by the manufacturer. In any event, it seems unlikely to obtain an approval before 2018. SNCB has therefore requested a derogation from the CFL in order to continue the traction of passenger trains using T13 locomotives equipped with Memor II+. SNCB and CFL are also exploring alternative solutions to ensure the Brussels-Luxembourg relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u22	Thank you, Madam Minister. However, I will continue my research on the other problems that would be a hindrance, as it seemed to me that there were other problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u23	Minister, the issue of the fee due to Infrabel is well known. It is my responsibility that the future fee that SNCB will have to pay to Infrabel will be fixed and calculated on the 2014 fee. Minister, how is the allocation of this fee between the various SNCB lines calculated? Is this distribution based on the profitability of the lines? Has a line-by-line cost-effectiveness study been conducted, or is it being planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u24	Ms Poncelet, the calculation of Infrabel's fee for the use of railway infrastructure is described in detail in the Network Reference Document (RDR), which is available to all on Infrabel's website. The infrastructure charge consists of several parameters, a number of which are actually linked to the type of line. For example, the C1 parameter reflects the operational importance of the line, largely dependent on its use, while the C2 parameter depends on the technical equipment of the line. A TGV line costs more than a conventional small line. The last parameter partially dependent on the line is the H parameter, which takes into account peak hours. These depend on the usage density of the line and are not identical across the entire network. The fee formula was not directly developed on the basis of the profitability of the different lines of the network. However, since the parameters C1 and H are linked to traffic density, it is likely that they are indirectly linked to profitability for operators of the different lines of the network. The companies reported that there was currently no on-line profitability study in progress as part of the royalty discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u26	Minister, the press reports that one in five trains would not be available because they either failed or were being serviced. This is obviously not without consequences on the punctuality of trains. In peak time, on the main lines, 50% of trains would be behind schedule. In general, what is due to the unavailability of the majority of trains? Are you considering improving the train maintenance process? If so, how? Does SNCB have the human resources to maintain the machinery?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u27	The rolling stock is unavailable for the commercial service for part of its time in order to perform the repair and maintenance tasks necessary to guarantee its safety, reliability and comfort. Among these tasks, a distinction should be made between routine maintenance and repairs, which are short-term tasks for which rolling stock is regularly sent to traction plants and maintenance stations. Various train-train modernization programmes are currently under way in order to completely renovate the older equipment and to equip it with new systems, including improved passenger comfort. These upgrades are carried out in the central workshops and require long-term immobilization of rolling stock. Modifications such as those concerning the installation of new ETCS on-board safety systems may also require long unavailability. I would remind you that my strategic vision for Belgian rail sets an improvement in the availability of rolling stock at 86%. Several measures are being taken to improve the maintenance process of rolling stock with a view to improving quality and reducing costs. These actions include, among other things, better diagnosis and more effective repair through enhanced monitoring of real-time equipment including the use of modern technologies. Intensification of shiftwork, i.e. when equipment is not used, e.g. on weekends or at night, better preparation of work (cells, methods, production chain preparation, planning and logistics), training of staff, strengthening the monitoring and adjustment of rolling stock services related to the designation of a manager and a core team per technical series, projects to improve the cleanliness of trains, the construction of new workshops and the acquisition of more efficient facilities, the development of human resources for the maintenance of rolling stock are an integral part of the discussions aimed at developing the business plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. These proposals for improvement certainly have costs. I once again ask myself the question of the savings that you have envisaged. Does this fit well into the budget plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u29	Mrs Poncelet, I think you should go to a workshop to see how the work is organized there. If the organisation of work is modernised, I can assure you that the productivity and availability of equipment would be increased. For me, it's not the staff I'm accusing, it's the organization of work. This is not adapted to the conditions of the current company; inquire where SNCB Logistics maintains its trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u30	I hope the future will make you right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u31	Minister, a program to centralize the technical cabins would be underway. Libramont's technical cab could be removed in favour of another one to be built in Namur. The staff is obviously worried. Inaugurated in 2012, so recently, at the cutting edge of technology, the Libramonte cabin cost five million euros and is perfectly able to regulate the rail network to the gates of Liège and Namur. It is difficult to understand, given all the savings to be made, that a recently constructed cabin should be removed for the benefit of another one to be built. Minister, can you give me more information about this centralization program? What about the future of Libramont's cabin? Will a new cabin be built in Namur? In the event of the removal of the Libramont cabin, what would happen to the staff who handled it? In the event of the removal of the Libramont cabin, what would be the nearest cabins in South Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u32	Ms.Poncelet, the current 130 cabins will be fully concentrated in 31 signalling stations by the end of 2017. This reform was decided several years ago under the previous government. A second phase of migration will allow the centralization of the signal service of the entire Belgian network to ten control rooms. The technical facilities will remain located at the 31 signal stations. The end of the migration to ten control rooms is scheduled for 2020. This final centralisation will allow better traffic control from control rooms with extended action areas. The ten control rooms are distributed as follows: for the Brussels-Capital Region, one post in Brussels; for the Flemish Region, five posts (Gand, Antwerp, Bruges, Hasselt and Antwerp-Port); for the Walloon Region, four posts (Namur, Liège, Charleroi and Mons). The migration of the signal service from the current area of Libramont to the control room of the Namur signalling station is scheduled for 2019. The technical facilities will remain in the current Libramont building. The premises released will be reused for the infrastructure maintenance service. The migration period from the Libramont cabin to Namur, during 2019, is programmed mainly according to the importance of the attrition of the staff currently used on the work seat of Libramont. This attrition will affect more than 50% of staff by 2019. The personnel still present in 2019 in Libramont will be transferred to Namur, with the exception of workers who are required to ensure the permanence of intervention in the area of action of the current cabin as well as personnel who are being transferred to other SNCB services in this region. The cabins of Namur and Liège will be the closest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u33	Luxembourg will therefore be completely deprived of technical cabs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am wondering here about the restrictive use of senior banknotes. The "Seniors Ticket" allows people over the age of 65 to travel at a preferential rate from Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. However, this time restriction is not applicable on Saturdays and Sundays. On the other hand, it appears that from 11 July to 16 August included, the "Seniors ticket" is not valid. This situation is difficult to accept for seniors living in peripheral areas, including the province of Luxembourg. These citizens are the subject of genuine discrimination against those who live closer to places of attraction such as Brussels, the North Sea, etc. It is true that if you have to wait for 9:47 a.m. (first train after 9:00 a.m.) to leave Marbehan to spend a day at sea, it is no longer worth it, especially since the "Seniors ticket" is for a round trip on the same day. The use of public transport in the province of Luxembourg is and remains problematic. Minister, have you examined this situation? How is it that the senior rate is not applicable all year round? What is your position on this discriminatory situation? Are you considering taking steps to allow everyone to travel with the same benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, the objective of the "Seniors ticket" is twofold: on the one hand, to offer seniors a favourable tariff formula given their sometimes modest incomes and, on the other hand, to enable SNCB, in doing so, to better fill trains at off-peak times, when the occupancy rate is low This dual objective is reflected on the one hand in particularly advantageous rates – it must be stressed – but also, on the other hand, in a restriction on high-influence hours such as morning peak time until 09:00 a.m. on weekdays and on the summer weekends during which SNCB has to implement many additional trains. I consider the formula to be broadly balanced, although the terms of the "Seniors ticket" are currently being discussed in the context of the development of the new SNCB management contract. With respect to the specific case of remote North Sea provinces, it is true that a departure after 09:00 reduces the duration of the excursion, but seniors have much greater latitude than other clients to plan their trips, for example during the 46 annual weekends without restrictions. In addition, during these periods, they are not likely to be confronted with discomfort related to heavily occupied trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u36	Minister, I regret that there is no proposal in favour of remote areas before 9:00 a.m., although seniors, seniors, have flexibility in terms of schedule. It's a pity they can't take advantage of this "Seniors ticket" that is only valid on the same day after 9:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u37	Madam Minister, Belgocontrol's services at national airports and regional airports have not been reimbursed since 2010 for developments in European regulations and the 1989 cooperation agreement. This has been pushed into red for several years by the public undertaking responsible for the safety of air traffic. In 2014, the federal government concluded a new management contract with Belgocontrol, in which a new financing system was agreed. The costs for the services provided by Belgocontrol to airports are set out in a performance plan to be submitted to the European Commission for the next five years. The costs are borne by the users and/or the public authorities according to a certain distribution key, which is laid down by the Royal Decree by the Council of Ministers in September each year. A decision was published for 2015 at the end of 2014. Madam Minister, first of all, what is the state of play for 2016? When will the royal decree be published? Secondly, is the part to be paid by the State included in the 2016 budget? Thirdly, do you intend to review and renegotiate the 1989 cooperation agreement with the regions? Fourthly, are the talks on this matter with the regions involved? Finally, what about the performance plan for the next five years? In the meantime, has this plan been approved by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u38	Madam Minister, my question also relates to the financing of Belgocontrol because the debate on the general policy note did not allow us to see more clearly about it. The question of the financing of Belgocontrol is not new. It seems difficult to find a structural financing solution. Pending this, the end-of-year budgets usually provide for a supplement of some 20 million for the operation of the company. This year, however, your budget has not programmed anything in this regard. You have justified the absence of this extension by stating that you are working on various structural financing avenues for the company - which is obviously something we can only rejoice at. If you didn't consider it necessary to allocate this supplement to Belgocontrol for this year, it's probably because you're hoping for a quick structural financing solution and you're looking for other avenues to find some 20 million missing. Minister, can you tell me more? What are the main refinancing routes envisaged? I am thinking, for example, of the indexation of the national airport charge, the renegotiation of services at regional airports or the revision of the 1989 cooperation agreement with the regions? Then, have you ever started talking with your Walloon counterpart, given the services offered by Belgocontrol to airports under its jurisdiction? Finally, how do you plan to close Belgocontrol's budget deficit for this year? We're talking about 24.9 million needed in 2016. Can this amount be found in the next budgetary control? How do you intend to do that? Thank you in advance, minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u39	Mr Vanden Burre, it was planned that the funding method for 2015 would be transitional pending a finalisation with the Regions of a revision of the 1989 Cooperation Agreement, which grants the Regions free of charge for the level of services not exceeding 1989. It must be noted that there is no evidence of progress on the revision of the agreement, as the Regions are not asking for the revision of the agreement. Informal contacts have made it possible to become aware of various complex technical elements: presentation of a cost control methodology, cost accounting and monopolistic character of Belgocontrol. In addition, further negotiations with the Walloon Region on the method of financing the investments to give rise to a comprehensive framework agreement are to be opened. The Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 laying down detailed rules for the financing of the costs of local air navigation services at the Belgian airport in 2016 was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 31 December 2015. It is for the Belgian State to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of its airspace and to ensure that Belgocontrol is paid for the services provided in order to meet its financial obligations. I will submit to the next budget conclave a request for additional funding from the federal budget for 2016, while advancing negotiations with the Regions. The performance plan was revised and submitted to the Commission for an evaluation on 2 July 2015. The plan sets out the capacity and economic efficiency objectives of several Member States including all FABEC countries, Belgium, the Netherlands, Fankrijk, Luxembourg and Switzerland. In its evaluation report, the independent body providing assistance to the European Commission for the evaluation of the plans considered that the objectives set out in the revised plan were inefficient. The Performance Review Body recommended that the Commission invite the Member States concerned to take corrective action. All FABEC countries are endorsed both for their capacity target and for their individual objectives of economic efficiency. The European Commission has already prepared a draft decision to refuse the performance plans and request corrective action from the Member States concerned. The draft decision had to be adopted by the Member States by letter by 15 January through the Single Sky Committee. This is the written voting procedure. However, FABEC countries asked the Commission to suspend the voting procedure so that the draft could be re-examined at the next meeting of the Single Sky Committee on 24 and 25 February. That will make it possible for us to repeat our comments and our arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u40	Madam Minister, it is important that Belgocontrol can continue to offer its services to all airports and that talks with the Regions are finalized. I understand from your reply that we have been given a second sitting time by the European Commission and that we are using all the space to respond to the comments. Finally, we will deliver a good performance plan on the operation of Belgocontrol to the European Commission for the next five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u41	Minister, you can only be included in your statements of intent on safety, on the sustainability of the company and on its structural financing. These are also our concerns. However, there is an over-the-spot and the discussions seem to be complicated with the Regions. We are, however, paying full attention to it, but the situation is a little worrying. This prevents solutions from being reached today. I take note of the fact that you are going to ask for an extension of the budget in the next conclave, and also of your comments on the European Commission. It doesn't make much progress on the Schmilblick, but you're still moving forward. We will return to the subject as soon as more concrete solutions are announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u42	Mr. President, Minister, last fall the press released the Vliegwet draft on which you are working. It is too early to comment on a text that has not yet been formally agreed in the Council of Ministers. However, I would like to ask you about the planned consultation with the Regions in connection with the drafting of this text. The DGTA, your administration, had the opportunity to state, in an opinion of 9 September 2015 addressed to your chief of staff, Ms Offergeld, that "air procedures should be in accordance with the various European obligations to be borne by the State, in particular those laid down in Directive EU 2002/49/EC, which provides for the obligation to set up 'noise' action plans." However, DGTA notes that your draft bill no longer refers to this directive, unlike the versions prepared by your predecessors, Messrs. Landuyt and Schouppe. This is particularly challenging in that air procedures (selection of runways, roads, take-off/landing procedures, etc.) and operating restrictions are one of the possible tools for air traffic noise management and should therefore form an integral part of the action plans provided for in Directive 2002/49/EC on the assessment and management of noise in the environment. Thus, in an opinion delivered on 4 April 2006 on the Landuyt draft law, the Council of State found that "some of the actions provided for in the action plans fall within the regional competence; others, resulting from the adoption of flight procedures and the operation of the Brussels-National airport or from noise standards, are the responsibility of the federal authority." The Council of State added: "In this case, the action plans required by Directive 2002/49/EC (...) can only be adopted by means of a cooperation agreement, taking into account the interlinkage of regional powers in the field of communication, transport and noise, on the one hand, and federal powers in the field of general police and regulations relating to communications and transport, air traffic safety at regional airports and public airfields, and, more broadly, in the field of public safety, (...)." Further on, the Council of State states - I quote -: "It is only when the matters assigned to different legislators are connected in such a way that, for example, because they are intertwined with each other, they cannot be regulated other than by a joint exercise of these powers that such a cooperation agreement is required to be concluded, legislation enacted unilaterally and without such an agreement of cooperation which then violates the principle of proportionality proper to any exercise of powers." In conclusion, a cooperation agreement is essential, according to the Council of State, because the flight procedures must be part of the action plan required by Directive 2002/49 and because the federal authority and the Regions exercise genuinely intertwined powers in this field. Hence, Madam Minister, my questions. Do you feel that this analysis of the 2006 Council of State also applies to your draft bill being drafted? If not, why? Has a cooperation agreement been or will it be proposed to the Regions in the near future? If not, what other form of consultation do you envisage with the Brussels Region, the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region? If not, do you consider that Belgium complies with the obligations of Directive 2002/49/EC with regard to the coordination of noise management action plans? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u43	Mr President, first of all, I would like to remind you that Directive 2002/49/EC concerns matters falling within the competence of the Regions, i.e. action plans based on noise mapping before preventing and reducing noise in the environment. This Directive has been transposed into Belgian law by means of the noise limits contained in the Brussels legislation. For the Federal Republic, Directive 2002/30 has been transposed by the Royal Judgment of 2003 concerning operating restrictions, repealed by Regulation 598/2014 of 16 April 2014 which will enter into force on 13 June 2016 and by Ministerial Decree of 3 May 2004 on the management of noise pollution at Brussels-National airport. You are right to say that air skills in noise are highly intertwined in Belgium. Indeed, if we are to ensure an effective environmental protection area, operational elements such as flight trajectories, environmental elements such as noise mapping or air pollution, operational reductions such as operating restrictions, taking into account noise and the health of citizens, would obviously have to be combined. The government agreement provides for a cooperation agreement. However, the setting of flight trajectories and operating restrictions at Brussels-National airport remain fully federal responsibilities. It is also essential that a rapid consultation on noise standards be established in order to seek an agreement on cooperation which respects the federal and the Brussels-Capital Region competences. As such, recent exchanges of letters have taken place on the issue of the Brussels overflight between Minister Frémault and myself. With regard to action plans, it would be desirable for several action plans to be taken by the various competent authorities. Planning is the responsibility of the responsible authorities for the subject matter for which planning is required. As a reminder, according to the principles of attribution and exclusivity, the powers of the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions are in principle exclusive to each other. Where jurisdiction coexists, the Council of State, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation consider that reference should be made to the principle of proportionality. In this context, it is clear from the provisions of Directive 2002/49 that a cooperation agreement would only be necessary if it was shown that the federal legislature could not itself take certain action plans without making it impossible or excessively difficult to exercise the powers conferred on the Regions. Finally, as you point out in your question, coordination and consultation are necessary in this matter, as the interlinkages may seem strong in the competences of the various ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The point of this debate, in such a complex and sensitive matter, is that your Vliegwet, once adopted, is not the subject of an appeal to the Constitutional Court. Given the difficulty of getting a cooperation agreement – your predecessors have never succeeded – I feel that you want to move forward with respect for your skills, but without going through a cooperation agreement. I think it would be more effective, perhaps not in the short term, but in the long term, to work on a cooperation agreement. In all cases, it is essential to respect each other's skills. I'm not going back to your total federal responsibility to change the air routes alone. But the Regions, and the Brussels Region in particular, are competent for noise standards. The other regions have not adopted noise standards so respectful of the inhabitants. They can do it. The Flemish Region can do it, the Walloon Region can do it. Try to go through a cooperation agreement. It is a way to respect all regional actors on the issue and also to ensure the long-term viability of your future Vliegwet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, in 2015, Touring conducted a survey of Belgians regarding speed on motorways. This showed that 80% of Belgians would be in favour of a "French" speed regime on the motorway, i.e. a limit of 110 km/hour in snow or rain, and 130 km/hour in dry weather. For its part, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) considers that the real issue on the agenda is not to increase from 120 to 130 kilometres per hour, but to adapt speed to weather conditions. The IBSR also points out that our motorway network is very different from the French network, with shorter sections and more entrances and exits over a small distance. According to the Institute, therefore, a change to a maximum speed of 130 kilometres per hour in dry weather would not be justified, especially since such a change could lead to an increase in accidents. Notwithstanding the sixth reform of the state, which has transferred many powers in the area of road safety to the Regions, the determination of highway speed remains a federal responsibility. So, Madam Minister, can you tell me what your position is in this debate on speed on motorways? Is consideration of system reform on the agenda? If so, do you already have a preference for guidance on this matter and can you provide me with the content of it? Finally, will consultations be held with all stakeholders in the sector? I was able to read in the press that you had asked the IBSR for a study which, according to your statements, should produce its results in the summer of 2016. Can you confirm this timing? I have also taken note of the fact that you wish, in view of these results, to launch a broad political and societal debate in which you would like, if necessary, to involve the citizens and to consult the Regions. I think that's a very good thing. I would have liked to have some additional information on this. But I would like to thank you already for this initiative: it is an important and interesting subject for the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u46	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the question of the most appropriate speed limits on motorways is regularly on the agenda, whether it be in the direction of an increase or a reduction in these limits, particularly in the light of climatic conditions. In my view, we must go further and not limit ourselves to the debate on 130 km/h on the motorway alone. I note that in France there is a different regime between rain and dry weather, that in the Netherlands the speed is sometimes differentiated at night from the day, that 90 km/h is imposed in case of smog. At the same time, many specialists talk about speed regulation to improve traffic flow. Would a downward adjustment of speeds in peak hours have a positive impact on the corks? That's a question. Would an adaptation of speeds upwards in off-peak hours have a very negative impact on road safety? That's a question. Would a different speed imposed in the event of rain have a positive impact on road safety? That is also a question. As a federal minister, I want to begin a real reflection on speed limits. The debate would therefore focus on a dynamic adjustment of speed according to traffic conditions (peak vs. off-peak hours), weather conditions (dry vs. strong wind, rain or snow) and environmental conditions (pollution peaks or not). I think it is useful to have the debate in the wake of the 2015 COP21 General States of Road Safety and given the technological opportunities that did not exist a few years ago to achieve the three objectives, improving road safety, traffic flow and reducing the impact on the environment. I repeat that today no decision is taken in one direction or the other. I look forward to the results of the IBSR study scheduled for this summer. There will be consultation with the Regions and the population, as more than 9,000 citizens have participated in the debate within the framework of the General States of Road Safety. This shows the public's interest in this topic. Therefore, yes, we will put this issue back to the public for consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for this additional information. I welcome this approach without ideological blindness. It is a good thing to consult and not to have taboos in relation to this question. I will not fail to follow this file. I think the approach is positive and I'll give you an appointment next summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u48	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago and last year too, the crossing of rail crossings was very topical. We also saw this during the Paris-Roubaix cycling race. SNCB was right to respond to that. I was alerted to the situation at Lebbeke station, and I had seen it myself. It is true that, as a result of the construction of the station, people are obliged to walk on the road to reach the platforms. I know that you are very sensitive to security, and I hope that you will take initiatives to remedy the situation there. I'll outline the situation. To reach the Lebbeke platform, most commuters have to cross the railway first. Taking into account closed barriers, one arrives well on time. However, the calculated margin is not always sufficient. During the morning rush the train to Dendermonde from 07:20 regularly delayed. When the train reaches the station, the barriers go down and these stay down until the train has left again. The next train arriving in Lebbeke is the train to Brussels. If that train is on time, while the previous delay had, the barriers stay down. They don't go up again until the train has left for Brussels. This situation is very frequent. At such a moment, dozens of people have been waiting a few minutes for the closed crossing, while they have to catch the train to Brussels. When they realize that the barriers stay down, they slalom between the barriers not to miss the train. This situation leads to dangerous situations. Infrabel and SNCB are right not to cross when the barriers are down, but in this case a lack of punctuality on the one train means that one is almost obliged to cross the tracks. In principle, the commuter has enough time if he is at the railway crossing five to ten minutes before the departure of his train. You understand that this is not the case for all commuters. I take myself as an example. I try to be on time as best I can, but it happens very often that people are forced to walk the tracks. Madam Secretary, what measures will SNCB and Infrabel take to address the dangerous situation at Lebbeke station? Does SNCB have plans to adjust the hours of arrival and departure in Lebbeke a little so that there would be enough time to cross the railway? Can the barriers at Lebbeke station be lowered for less time? Are there any plans to adapt the railway crossing to the Lebbeke railway station?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I also have a question in the same vein. I live in Wieze and therefore take the train almost daily at Lebbeke station. The story to which Mrs Temmerman referred is not unknown to me. There are regular problems there with a number of dangerous situations as a result. Shuttles coming from the centre of Lebbeke or parking their car in the parking lot on the other side of platform 2 towards Brussels, some 90% of travellers, are indeed in trouble during the morning rush. After all, the train to Brussels is barely eight minutes later than that to Dendermonde. People who bring their children to school around that time rush to the station to take the train to work. Because of the delay they sometimes go under the barriers. That is not acceptable, we agree, but I would say that they are sometimes forced to do so. The situation is sufficiently outlined. I have a number of questions about this. Are you aware of these problems? Do you have any idea what measures the SNCB and Infrabel will take to resolve this traffic-secure situation? If the problem is structural, what are the planned works and adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u50	Mr President, in Lebbeke, the cadancing trains pass towards Jette and Brussels at 13 and 41 minutes after the hour. The trains pass towards Dendermonde at 20 and 47 minutes after the hour. This offer is complemented by P trains during peak hours. If the train from Brussels to Dendermonde is delayed, this may indeed cause inconvenience to the way around. However, SNCB informs me that it is not currently making any changes to its timetable. SNCB, however, strives every day to improve the punctuality of trains so that the problem outlined can be minimized. Infrabel, on the other hand, is investigating a technical solution by taking into account the possibility of delays in closing the barriers in a more appropriate way. It goes without saying that the general principles of safety which apply to rail transport can be undermined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u51	Madam Secretary, your answer is unsatisfactory. I understand the problem and I also understand that SNCB cannot change the timetable immediately, because that would create a domino effect and then much will have to be changed. I am already pleased that Infrabel is looking for technical solutions, but would ask you, Madam Minister, to ask the services once again to examine all possibilities. We shouldn't think about an accident happening because someone wants to catch his train. Of course one should not walk over the tracks, but when one is afraid to miss the train, one sometimes does. I would therefore ask you to call on the services to examine all the possibilities in such a way that passengers can safely go to their trains, possibly through an underpass, even though I know that this solution is financially and infrastructureally very difficult, or over the tracks. However, people who take the train on a daily basis say that the current situation will sooner or later lead to a major accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u52	Madam Secretary, what you say is correct. There is no problem in principle for the trains that come by at a fixed time every hour. The problem mainly occurs during the morning rush, in particular by train from 07:28. The train from 07:20 very often has some delay and then a margin of eight minutes for the next train is little. This gives rise to frustration when passengers try to get to the station in good time, but cannot take that train anyway. I hope that opportunities will be explored to optimise the scheme there. There must be no waiting for an accident before initiatives are taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u53	Madam Minister, B Logistics drivers have managed to reduce the energy consumption of a series of freight trains by as much as 25% in one year. For the pilot project, 50 freight trains, approximately one third of the total fleet, were equipped with energy meters. On the basis of the data collected by the energy meters, the planned path, the height profile and the speed profile of the line, the drivers prepare their journey. The aim is to reduce the number of unwanted stops to a minimum, because stopping and lifting takes a lot of energy and makes the brakes and rail infrastructure wear and tear. In addition, the trains participating in the pilot project encountered 72% less double yellow or red signals, which is a good thing for railway safety. Are you aware of the results of the pilot project? Will the pilot project be extended to passenger transport? If so, is there a timing for this? What is the estimated cost of installing energy meters in all locomotives and trains running on the Belgian track? According to Mr Bart van der Spiegel of Infrabel's Energy Management, the next step in reducing energy consumption on the Belgian track is to put a traffic management system into operation. Infrabel would investigate how it can export the data in that system to tools on the trains; these could be driving advisory systems. What's the status of that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u54	SNCB confirms to me that B Logistics drivers are involved in a pilot project to save energy on freight trains. In a few months' time, they have developed a method of significantly reducing energy consumption on the journey they travel daily without using technical aids. They can monitor the energy consumption of their locomotive through energy meters, in which B Logistics invested in 2014. In recent months, train drivers have improved their techniques and have been able to reduce them from 20% to 30%. Aware of the environmental and cost benefits, B Logistics actively supports the initiative. There is also a project to reduce consumption at standstill in bundles and sub-items. In the first quarter of 2016, there will be consultation speeds on the timetable that train drivers receive. Thus, the techniques used can also be extended to passenger transport. Furthermore, the installation of a prototype energy meter is planned for 2017, after which the roll-out will be spread over the different types of equipment over four years according to the available budgets. Infrabel plays an important role in the development of such initiatives through its membership of ERS. Together with infrastructure managers from already six other countries, Infrabel has joint software to receive, exchange, validate, estimate missing values and allocate consumption to the correct end user. The cost of an energy meter varies from locomotive to locomotive. Much depends on whether the components can be re-used or not. The cost is thousands of euros. The railway undertakings themselves are responsible for adding the energy meters to the rolling stock. There are 1 500 locomotives and motor sets on the Belgian rail network. At EUR 10 000 per metre, the total investment cost amounts to EUR 15 million. The total energy bill is more than 100 million euros per year. If energy can be saved by following energy consumption and adjusting the driving style, the investment will be recouped after a year and a half. The tests at B Logistics, but also similar studies from abroad, have shown that such energy savings are realistic. Infrabel will put its new traffic management system into operation on 4 September 2016. The new application is based on the rail control system that is already operational in Switzerland. It is currently being tested and adapted to the cross-compliance of the Belgian rail network. After the recruitment of the new traffic management system, it will be examined whether sufficient information is available to link it back to tools on trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u55	Thanks for the answer. There doesn't always have to be bad news from the railroad world. It's a hopeful story about a meaningful experiment. You have already shown and outlined that this is a meaningful investment, which will earn itself back in the short term. I have also heard that there are still a number of projects in the docks. I hope that the pilot project will be extended as soon as possible, including passenger transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u56	Mr President, Minister, in the Netherlands test flights have recently been carried out with drones. In itself this is not so remarkable, were it not that those drones were used to inspect the rail infrastructure and look for cracks, rust formation and other possible forms of damage. On the basis of the photo and video material collected, the infrastructure manager can then proceed to the necessary maintenance work. The drone inspections have a lot of advantages. For example, a drone can fly over the rail during the day, while inspections by railway workers can only be carried out at night and therefore at limited visibility, as train traffic must not be hindered. Also, drone inspections would improve the safety of employees, for example, they should no longer climb parts of the rail infrastructure in order to detect deviations. The maintenance itself will, of course, still have to be done at night by railway workers, so that commitment remains necessary. Madam Secretary, I have three questions in that regard. You have been working on a royal decision for some time to create a legislative framework for the use of drones. Will that royal decision allow the use of drones for rail infrastructure inspections? That royal decision would prohibit the use of automatic drones. However, just that type of drones is used to inspect sites. As Minister, you may grant derogations under the terms of the Royal Decree for public interest activities. Will you allow such a derogation for inspections of the rail network by Infrabel? Why is that, or why not? Are you prepared to leave room, as in the Netherlands, for pilot projects with drones carrying out inspections of railway infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u57	Mr President, the Royal Decree allows any form of professional use of drones, provided that certain legal provisions are respected. The inspection of the rail infrastructure is perfectly possible. Only areas in the controlled airspace still need a solution to keep it practical and safe. The Royal Decree provides for the possibility of granting a derogation in order to better serve the public interest. The inspection of rail infrastructure contributes to the continuity of services and is therefore eligible for this possibility. A working group within the SNCB Group is currently working with Infrabel and DGLV to see how the drones can be integrated into the work of the railway, thus increasing continuity and safety. Indeed, the RB prohibits the use of autonomous drones. However, this is a type of drone, in which it is impossible for the pilot to intervene in the course of the flight after taking off. As this type of drone is therefore not capable of responding to unforeseen circumstances, it constitutes a risk to civil aviation and is therefore prohibited. The inspection of the railway network is not carried out by autonomous drones, but by drones flying on autopilot, with the pilot always having the technical ability to intervene in the course of the flight in order to cope with unforeseen circumstances. There has been a pilot project with SNCB Group and Infrabel since the summer to test drones. From 2016, operational deployment will start before the inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u58	Madam Minister, we see that the new technology is becoming more and more rapid in our society. That offers opportunities that we must seize. All restrictive legal standards are counterproductive. We must encourage innovation and progress and not prevent it. It is therefore hopeful to hear that pilot projects are under way and that there is consultation to enable this technique to be used for inspection of railway infrastructure. Of course, everything must be safe. We must not compromise safety in any way. It must be our ambition to work on this, just like our neighbours in the Netherlands. I therefore hope that the KB with which you will shortly come out will be sufficiently flexible to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u59	Madam Minister, we submitted this question on 18 December 2015, following the debate in this committee on 10 December. At that time you announced that you would have a meeting with the ministers of our neighbouring countries on 20 December on the same issue. On 20 December, gates and scanners were put into service in France. We ourselves believe that the use of gates and their cost is not proportionate to the usefulness and inconvenience of the passengers. As we noted during the visit to Brussels-South, we must be careful to reserve platforms to the Thaly systems. My questions are more informative. What is the outcome of the consultation with your fellow Members? I agree that we need to look at this in a broader story. Has SNCB made an assessment of the additional technical and organisational security measures and the cost of placing X-ray devices, detection gates and additional deployment of safety patrols? Is that appropriate? If there are no results today, when do you expect them? Is the decision based on costs and benefits, savings and customer comfort?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u60	I will skip the introduction, which Mr Geerts has already outlined sufficiently. How is cooperation with neighbouring countries going? We are talking about safety on international trains. What exactly does the cooperation consist of? What agreements have already been made in the framework of cooperation on safety on Thalys trains? What agreements have been reached on international train safety with other European countries, i.e. outside the Thalys context? The European Commission would also be working on a study on a European scale. She would have been discussed at the Transport Council. What is the state of play with the feasibility study of SNCB itself, which was announced earlier? What is your view as a minister on guaranteeing safety on international trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u61	Mr President, consultations are currently taking place between the various partners, both at national level with my colleague from the Interior, SNCB and the police and at international level. It is made clear that each operator and each country wants to provide an overall response to the demand for a safe course of transport, regardless of the type of train used, the difference between countries in risk threats and infrastructure and the difference in responses to them. That therefore explains the different approach, ranging from a control as in aviation versus camera surveillance and targeted controls. SNCF has announced that doorways, metal detectors and X-ray devices will be installed in Lille Europe and Paris Nord for Thalys trains from 15 December 2015. This has now been done and experiences are being exchanged. Consequently, it was decided not to copy the far-reaching initiatives of the French authorities as such, but to provide a coherent response to the security issue in consultation and with respect for our individuality. Cooperation at international level also concerns the exchange of information by the railway undertakings' safety services through their respective Security Operations Centers. For example, the Security Operations Centers of Brussels, Berlin, Utrecht, Paris, Thalys and Eurostar are in permanent contact. Before choosing a specific technical solution, SNCB would like to discuss with the authorities the most efficient and proportionate means to improve safety without hindering access to the train. This is also a question from our customers who were delivered to us by the European Passengers' Federation. On 5 January, SNCB made a proposal to my colleague, Mr Jambon, and myself, containing the various options. The meeting on 10 December could not continue, since I had to answer questions in the Chamber on Thursday and not all my fellow Members were present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The starting point for safety is clearly shared by everyone. I still don't understand, during the visit and now here, that a ticket is not bought by name. I find that strange. Airplane tickets are registered, but the Thalys don't have to: one person can buy five tickets. Knowing who's on the train is a step in the right direction. This is likely to be included in SNCB's proposals. Agreement on international cooperation. On 5 January, SNCB made a proposal. In your view, when can the government conclude on what measures will be taken effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u63	I largely agree with Mr Geerts' reply and thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 17 December 2014, the Brussels Court of Appeal rendered a judgment declaring inadmissible the cross-appeal brought to your initiative against the order of 31 July 2014 annulling the sixth phase of the Wathelet plan. As a reminder, the trial judge had considered that the investigation of 15 March 2012 into the Wathelet plan was indeed a plan within the meaning of the "Plans and Programmes" Act of 13 February 2006 and that, as such, the plan should have been subject to public consultation. The application for appeal lodged on behalf of the Belgian State challenged this point of the judgment and requested a review of the judgment. By declaring the Belgian State's application inadmissible, the Court of Appeal confirms that the legislator is obliged to consult the public if he intends to create or modify air routes. This judgment is in line with the opinion sent by DGTA on 9 September 2015, which states that "all the air procedures which the government intends to annex to the law of procedures should be subject to an environmental impact assessment and prior public consultation". Minister, what conclusions do you draw from this judgment of the Court of Appeal? What will be the practical consequences for the vliegwet project, which provides for the annexation of the air routes that will apply when the law comes into force? Are you planning to submit to the public consultation of the three Regions the air routes that will appear in Appendix 1 of the project that we were asked to consult a few months ago? As your vliegwet project will soon be finalized, when do you envisage the implementation of the public consultation imposed on you by your administration and jurisprudence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u65	Mr. Hellings, the Court of Appeal ruled only on the form (procedural grounds). The State's cross-appeal was considered inadmissible. The Court of Appeal therefore did not address any of the substantive issues in the dispute. According to the Belgian State, the order for interim relief of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July 2014 is erroneously part of the assumption that an investigation is a plan within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006. The result of this position is inconsistent within the time frame for implementation. In fact, the State was required to set up new roads within three months. However, the average duration of public consultation is estimated to be between six and twelve months. The question must therefore be emptied in advance. With respect to the impact of the bill, I ask that the leaked version in the press be ignored, as it has evolved significantly since July. I would remind you that this was a working document that was still under discussion and not finalized. It must first and foremost be discussed in a calm manner with the government's partners. The question of public consultation will respect Belgian and European legislation in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As regards the consultation with the Regions and therefore the establishment of a cooperation agreement to ensure the reliability and viability of your vliegwet, consultation and consultation with the public of the three Regions is necessary. In the absence of consultation with the Regions and the public, you may, before the Constitutional Court, see the law, which you have been working intensively on for a few weeks, overturned by the Court. That would be a shame on such a sensitive case!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, we recently learned that SNCB was preparing to test two types of Wi-Fi installation in order to allow users to benefit free of charge from an internet connection on board trains. The line to be tested is the line between Liège and Ostend. Tests are expected to begin in February 2016. Both tests will be simultaneously but physically separated to avoid interference. In addition, suppliers will be required to ensure that there is no interference between the test systems and those for rail communication. Minister, can you explain to us the two trials that will be conducted in the coming months? How long will the test phase last? If the test is successful, how soon could trains running on the Belgian network be equipped with this free Wi-Fi connection? On this train, how will passengers be notified of ongoing tests? Is there a satisfaction survey planned for users who will test wifi? Will the Liège-Ostende line be the only one to experiment with this new technology?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u68	Madam Minister, in December you announced that SNCB has awarded a test project for Wi-Fi on the train. The launch of a pilot project would be planned for the first quarter of 2016. For Wi-Fi in the stations a candidacy was sent out. SNCB analysed the applications. What is the status of the test project on Wi-Fi on the train? What will the planned test period look like? What lines will be used for this? Who was awarded the tender? What's the status of Wi-Fi in the stations? Has any decision been made on which candidate the SNCB is going to join? What will the Wi-Fi pilot project look like in the stations? Have these projects been discussed in the investment cell? Will the internet on the train and the stations be included in the upcoming management contract with SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u69	[[...]] The test phase will last three months. The contract for the test project was awarded to Icomera and Nomad Digital. Even if the test project is positive, SNCB will have to develop a business case for possible further deployment. There are currently no deadlines set by SNCB in this regard, but this is part of the discussions for the next management contract and the next IPP. The cars that will be equipped with the test assembly will be clearly identified by means of stickers affixed to the outside from the start of the operational tests. A satisfaction survey will be organised among passengers who will test the Internet. The Liège-Ostende test route is indeed the only one on which this technology will be tested. Mobile operators are involved in the provision of 3G and 4G network capacity. Currently, Wi-Fi services are available in about 50 stations. The aim is to renew existing network equipment and to improve services. The procedure for selecting the Wi-Fi candidates in the stations is under way. The pilot project of a new Wi-Fi network will be conducted in three stations: Brussels-South, Halle and Huizingen. Those projects have not yet been addressed within the investment part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u70	I thank the Minister for her response. You say that this will be included in the future management contract, in the future IPP. Do you have any idea the date of the future IPP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u71	Work is under way; I can't tell you any more for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. You say that even if the test project is evaluated positively, a business case must be developed within SNCB for Wi-Fi. I take it this won't be a problem? It has already been mentioned a few times, Wi-Fi on the train is among the minimum comfort equipment. In the stations too, a tooth will have to be added. I have one more question. When will SNCB know, after the test period, whether Wi-Fi can be rolled out on the train and in the stations? Is there a timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u73	I can't be more precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u74	Madam Minister, on Monday 14 December, you were inaugurating alongside Brussels transport minister Pascal Smet and the two mayors of Ixelles and Etterbeek, two new stations for the Brussels S network or "suburban network": Germoir in the town of Ixelles and Tour and Taxis in Laeken. These openings are promising first steps for the future development and expansion of the Brussels regional express network (RER), which will ultimately improve intra-Brussels mobility but also between the capital and its periphery. Despite this good news, which clearly attests to SNCB's willingness to support mobility in the Brussels region, the expanded development of the RER is unfortunately delayed. The network is expected to be completed by 2025, subject to numerous delays in recent years. Even though the timetable has been repeatedly postponed and you have inherited this difficult situation from your predecessors, we must nevertheless remain optimistic: the opening of these stations is proof of a new and positive dynamic. Madam Minister, many citizens, particularly from Brussels and its periphery, are awaiting the implementation of the RER project. Can you give us a general overview of the current state of play of this project and the latest achievements? What are the next deadlines for the development of this network and what other stations will be opened in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u75	Thank you, Mr. Calomne. I think you were also present at the inauguration, as a new Member of Parliament. Indeed, it is necessary to remain optimistic and to make every effort to develop a suburban offer in Brussels and its periphery. SNCB launched its suburban rail offer in December 2015 with the new visual identity and S logo, as well as with the opening of two new railway stations, Germoir and Tour & Taxis. This launch should have been accompanied by the commissioning of two new S relations to follow the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. Unfortunately, for known reasons, the tunnel could not be opened. The opening is expected to take place in April 2016. As such, SNCB informs me that as soon as the tunnel is opened to train traffic, it will put into operation the S-5 relationship between Grammont and Malines, and the S-9 relationship between Braine-l'Alleud and Leuven. These two relations, which will follow the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, will make it possible to improve the journey times but also to reach directly the European area served by the Schuman station, a multimodal pole shared with STIB. In addition to the S-5 and S-9 relations, SNCB states that the IC relationship from Charleroi to Namur-Dinant will serve the Brussels-National airport through the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, a clearly improved offer for SNCB and airport customers. In addition to the opening of the extension of the offer scheduled for April 2016, I asked SNCB to study the possibilities of extending the suburban offer for Brussels and the periphery as part of the transport plan of December 2017. This is done in close cooperation with all stakeholders, such as the Regions and their administration, as well as regional public transport operators De Lijn, SRWT-TEC and STIB-MIVB. The Germoir stop point was put into service on December 13, 2015. Schuman train station and the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel will be on 4 April 2016. At this stage, SNCB confirms to me that the opening of the Arcades station in the town of Watermael-Boitsfort is well planned for December 2016. Arcades and Watermael stations close to 200 metres will become an exchange pole served by the S7 relationship between Hal and Malines via Uccle, Boondael, Meiser, Bordet, Vilvorde and the S8 and S81 relations between Louvain-La-Neuve-Ottignies and the North-Midi junction through the European neighbourhood. In the Brussels region, work continues for the Watermael-Schuman-Josaphat programme mainly in the triangle known as Etterbeek through the construction of a crossing structure and the laying of new roads and for the programme of the L50A line in Anderlecht, also through the laying of new routes. Work on the L161 Watermael-Boitsfort and L124 Uccle four-lane programs is currently suspended due to licensing problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u76	Minister, thank you for your complete answers. I take note, if everything goes well, that the Region and the municipality of Watermael-Boitsfort will welcome another new station this year. I will not hesitate to come back to you for further information, if necessary, on future developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u77	Mr.President, Madam Minister, on Tuesday, December 15, 2015, on your initiative, the General States of Road Safety took place. On that occasion, you announced a series of ambitious measures to significantly improve road safety, with the aim of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020. This is both an ambitious and a necessary goal. The proposed measures are the result of a "popular consultation" in which more than 9,000 citizens participated and gave their opinion on this issue, together with the reflections of working groups composed of experts. Clearly, this is an effort of good governance in terms of participatory democracy that needs to be emphasized. You have already mentioned this in an answer to a previous question. With regard to this new road safety plan, one of your flagship measures has drawn particular attention to the application of zero alcohol tolerance for new drivers who have been licensed for less than three years. I believe that this project is relevant in view of the number of people killed and injured on the roads. Minister, in order to clarify this proposed measure, I would have liked further clarification. Specifically, when do you intend to implement this measure? What exactly are the categories of drivers targeted? Are differences considered in relation to the age of the primary driver? As you know, the citizens, of whom I am, are increasingly passing their driving licences, especially in urban areas. Finally, even if this is obviously not directly within your jurisdiction, have you ever had any contact with the insurance sector to see to what extent this project could have an impact on the reduction in current tariffs? Young drivers pay very high deductibles because of their risk factor. To the extent that alcohol is banned from driving for this category of the population, a relaxation on the part of the insurance sector could be envisaged. In addition to the problem of accident risk with new drivers, your plan also targets repeat offenders. For this particular public, it is a matter of making compulsory the use of an on-board ethylotest. As such, could you provide us with more details on the proposed tool and how it works? Is this self-control of the driver? Have any contacts been established between your services and potential suppliers? What would be the cost of installing such an ethylotest in a vehicle? Would this amount be borne by the offender? What is the current volume of the public that would be affected by this measure? Still about repeat offenders, one of the objectives of your plan is also to find them more easily. In this sense, another measure announced is to improve police databases to provide, in real time, a complete overview of the offences committed by a driver. Minister, could you tell us, in concrete terms, how these databases will be completed and when? What will be the basis for cooperation between your services and those of the police forces to implement this measure? Finally, you mentioned the idea of digitalizing the driver's licence. Could you give us the outline or details of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u78	Mr President, during the debates which took place in preparation for the General States of Road Safety, there was a great willingness on the part of the citizens to fight alcohol while driving. One of the measures proposed is to limit the blood alcohol level to 0.2 per thousand, which is equivalent to zero tolerance, for novice drivers, i.e. drivers who have been licensed to drive for less than three years. The determining factor is experience, more than the age of the driver. As novice drivers have less driving experience, it is more difficult for them to manage the risks and control their vehicle, especially when they have been drinking alcohol. That is why this measure is useful. I have just expressed my willingness to lower the alcohol level for novice drivers in the framework of the General States of Road Safety, following the debate with the citizens and as recommended by the European Commission. Therefore, consultations with all stakeholders with an important voice still need to take place. It is not yet possible to provide more information at this stage or to determine the date on which this measure will enter into force. Indeed, we are only at the beginning of the process. As far as insurance rates are concerned, some insurances already do so for drivers who install a black box in their vehicle. However, it is necessary to be realistic, not because the alcohol level for novice drivers will be reduced to 0.2 per thousand that this rate will always be met. A preventive anti-start ethylotest must be a condition (...). [[Gsm Interferences]] Currently, people who are recidivist about driving alcohol are rarely ordered to install an anti-start ethylotest in their vehicle. However, by guaranteeing the impossibility of starting the vehicle when the driver has been drinking, the ethylotest is very effective. I would like to encourage judges to force more often drivers who cannot choose between drinking and driving to install such a device in their vehicle. The installation of an anti-start ethylotest must be carried out at the same time as a mentoring program with the IBSR where drivers are monitored and trained on the dangers of alcohol driving. The cost of the device is EUR 3 000 per year (installation, data recording, supervision programme) borne by the offender. In return, this person can continue to use his or her vehicle, which is a significant benefit while protecting society. So far, the only devices recognized in Belgium are those of the Dräger brand. The measure to improve the police database of offences in order to better detect repeat offenders is a matter for the interior. The primary purpose of this database is to provide information on the number of times a driver or vehicle has been found to be in breach in the past year. As such, this does not have a direct impact on the severity of the sanctions, but this could encourage the prosecution to refer offenders who commit multiple offences to the police court by paying for the immediate perception. The objective of the digitalisation of driving licence data is to extend the Carrefour Bank of Driving Permits, Mercurius. It now contains all the mentioned data on driving licences made available by genuine sources such as the National Register and the database of the results of examinations at the ad hoc centres. The extension aims to establish a permanent connection with the FPS Justice database, which is the authentic source of the revocations of the right to drive. As soon as this connection is active, the control services will be able to see, through a single consultation, the current situation of a driver's licence, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Currently, data on driving licences are collected in the Carrefour Bank of Driving Permits; data on revocations and the immediate withdrawal of the licence, from which the SPF Justice is the authentic source, are available only for technical reasons. A working group of FPS Justice, Police and FPS Mobility and Transport is currently working on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u79	Thank you, Minister. I think you answered all the questions. I still wanted to congratulate you on these various measures because road safety affects each and every one of us. We're all driving. Some parents are afraid of their children. These measures can enhance the safety and perception of certain drivers. I will remain attentive to these issues, but the news you have given us today is encouraging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u80	The next item on the agenda is Question No Mr David Geerts' 8226 on "the discount rate on the train during the Christmas and New Year periods and the smart vending machines."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u81	Mr President, I turn this question into a written question. I would like to point out that a written question was tabled on 2 October 2015 in the framework of the Mobility Week, but still no answer has been given. Hopefully we'll get that soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 8255 question was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u83	Mr President, Minister, recently the BIVV announced the results of its fourth road safety survey. This showed that a small half of the Flemings are in favour of the introduction of the driving licence with points. The same study shows that in neighbouring countries where the system has already been introduced, support in the population is growing to over 70%. By the way, many countries have already introduced it and Belgium is one of the few countries where it has not yet done so. Police judges and prosecutors are also in favour of the introduction of a driving licence with points. This morning we had interesting hearings on the problem of the hit-and-run. Every time, there was a demand from practice for the introduction of the driving licence with points, because this is a very good instrument. This is also evident from experience abroad. The coalition agreement says you want to investigate the system. Your Flemish colleague, Minister Weyts, is a supporter. According to him, it's only a matter of political will. Firstly, where are we on the examination of the driving licence with points? Secondly, what are the main pros and counters that have emerged so far and which weighs you down? Thirdly, by when do you think you can complete the investigation and make a decision? It's important to make a decision. Either it is yes, which I would very much welcome, or it is no and then we know it. I note with your coalition partners that there are a lot of supporters and I hope to hear a positive response today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u84	Mr President, the coalition agreement clearly states that the government wants to work on a systematic approach to recidivism and will consider the most appropriate instruments. The study material available to me, from the BIVV and from my administration, shows that the driving licence with points as such is not a panacea. On the one hand, different conditions must be met and on the other hand, the effects on road safety should not be overestimated. As far as the latter is concerned, it is generally assumed that a short-term effect can be noted in particular. The framework conditions relate in particular to the need to keep the number of checks sufficiently high, to the proper functioning of the judicial system, to the prevention of possible abuses and to the budgetary and administrative aspects of their introduction. In addition, there is much to expect from a recent introduction, at the beginning of this year, of the system of cross-recidivism, whereby the recurrence of one of the six most serious offences within three years gives rise to at least three months' driving ban and the obligation to take the four recovery examinations. I asked the BIVV to examine the effects of the introduction of this new system of relapses and also to carry out an information campaign to increase their preventive effects. One of the reflections could be to extend this system of recidivism to other offences, centralising all of the traffic offenders, including immediate collections and friendly settlements, in the MACH system of the police courts. In this way, an adapted punishment can be applied by the courts, whether or not based on predefined legal measures. As far as timing is concerned, I hope to have more clarity by the end of this year, on the one hand, on the results of the BIGV study and, on the other hand, on the possibilities offered by the Justice Department to achieve a better return system through the MACH system. In this context, we must not forget that the introduction of a scored driving licence is only possible if the Justice Department has an integrated database containing the data on immediate collections, amicable settlements and convictions for offences eligible for the scored driving licence. In conclusion, several possibilities apply to the implementation of the coalition agreement. The point driving licence remains one of the possibilities, but we also need to look at alternatives that may be more efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u85	Madam Secretary, your answer is not encouraging. I heard a lot of arguments like "it's not a miracle cure," "it'll only have a short-term effect," or "there's a new recidivism, which may also be an alternative. I heard a lot of things that I could supplement with the words'society' and so I am opposed to the introduction of the driving licence with points'society'. That's how I expected it, but you wouldn't say those words. So I heard above all arguments as to why it might not be a good idea. However, there are only six countries in Europe that have not introduced it. Have all the others been so stupid? Have they all made such a wrong choice? Of course, we will never be able to combat 100 percent of the crimes. There will always be crimes, but I have the impression that you do not really like the proposal. I do not think that is a good thing. You are now asking the BIVV to carry out further studies and to evaluate the new legislation on recidivism. As far as I'm concerned, you can examine anything you want, but the coalition agreement stated that you would mainly investigate the way in which the licence with points could possibly be introduced. You promise certainty and clarity by the end of this year. I'll write that down and I'll definitely come back to it. In one case, I can follow you, knowing that, if it is to work properly, justice must have a very good computer system so that all the data are available. Of course, otherwise it simply cannot work, but that means that you will have to sit down with your colleague in the Justice Department to speed things up. Where there's a will, there's a way. It's gotta work. Today, however, I remain hungry. I am leaving Parliament today with the feeling that you do not really support this measure. I regret that because I know that there is a majority in Parliament for the introduction of the driving licence with points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u86	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, my question is about the height of the wharf. Indeed, as you know, in December the SNCB formalized the order for the new M7 cars that will replace the M6 cars. The first delivery is expected to take place in 2018. That's a good thing. However, there are some problems. Indeed, comfort is linked to ease of access. However, good access is linked to the height of the wharf. We know that in the future, the standard will be 76 cm. But today, that is not the case. Indeed, Mr Cornu has presented us, using a magnificent slide, with the three or four heights that predominate at unguarded stations and stop points. In short, reconciling the requirements of the current dock heights with those of the cars that were selected was not easy. However, a choice was made. In response to the decision, the Travellers' Associations and the National Council of Persons with Disabilities responded. Minister, it is clear that we are faced with dissatisfaction. SNCB states that it wants to draw inspiration from the Twindex Bombardier model that does not have doors on the axles, a sine qua non condition at a platform height of 76 cm. In view of the technical constraints, how do you explain the choice that has been made and that appears to be generally unsatisfactory in all situations? What is your position on this matter? How long will it take to adapt the wharfs, given the multi-annual investment projects of which we are not aware? There is also the question of persons with reduced mobility. But my colleague, David Geerts, will not fail to ask you about this. To ease the work, I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u87	My questions are in line with what Mr Cheron said. I will not talk about the standard height of the platforms, 76 cm, but I will focus on the collaboration with the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap and with organizations like VFG and others. I have here the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers, which clearly regrets that, in view of the ageing population and the profile of rail passengers, which are constantly subject to reduced mobility, the comments of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities have not been taken into account when purchasing. It has already been mentioned in Questions Nos 606, 767 and others that there are better examples in other countries, for example in Switzerland. A resolution by Mr van den Bergh on accessibility and reservation times has recently been adopted across party boundaries. I therefore regret that such important purchases do not seem to take much account of people with disabilities. Madam Secretary, I come to my questions. Firstly, there are now opinions from the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap and from the Advisory Committee of the Train Traveller. How come that hasn't been taken into account? Secondly, how does the consultation take place? Apparently, last week or last week, you consulted with a number of organisations asking that the different managements should take their concerns into account, especially in the future. I found the advice based on the argument that one should work not from a vision of the end of the 20th century, but one of the 21st century, well-founded. Finally, what is the state of play with regard to shortening the reservation period? Steps have been taken forward, but when will the procedure be effective for most train stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u88	Madam Minister, at the beginning of this month, SNCB placed a first firm order of 445 M7 double-floor cars from the Alstom/Bombardier consortium for an amount of €1.3 billion. The 445 cars ordered - which represents 90 double-storey trains - are more comfortable. In addition, they can drive at 200 km/h and will be equipped with safety systems TBL1+ and ETCS. According to the information received, according to the overall framework contract signed with the consortium, Alstom/Bombardier would supply up to 1,362 such cars to SNCB for a total amount of €3.3 billion. Strict clauses have also been included in the contract regarding reliability, delivery times and maintenance costs of the equipment. Minister, can you give us more details on the delivery times for this first order? Can you inform us about the agreed terms of maintenance? Will the interviews still be carried out in the SNCB workshops? If not, will this affect employment within the group and how? A recent controversy, relayed by the press, accused SNCB of ordering cars that would not correspond to the height of the docks. What about it? Are the new cars well located at a regulatory level? Within which time will SNCB carry out future orders within the same framework contract? I will remain there to allow you to answer the other questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u89	As Minister for Mobility, I am a strong supporter of constructive and well-founded consultation, especially with the National High Council for Persons with Disability and the Flemish Federation of Disabled People. The needs of people with reduced mobility are and will remain an important priority for mobility policy and will be taken back into account in future orders together with the needs of all travellers. To the reply I provided here on 2 December 2015 on the boarding height and the remarks made on this subject by the passenger organisations, I would like to add that, for these M7 cars, SCNB has opted for conventional access doors of the same height as the existing M6 and M5 two-level equipment. The choice of conventional access doors above bogies is an operational necessity for SNCB. For long trains arriving at a curved wharf such as, for example, in Brussels-Central, the distance between the train and the wharf would otherwise be too long. In addition, doors in the middle of a two-level car would reduce passenger capacity. However, we cannot lose sight of the fact that one of the main objectives of purchasing this new rolling stock is to be able to carry a maximum of passengers per current train metre, especially during peak hours for the crossing of the nearly saturated North-Midi junction. For persons with reduced mobility, when ordering the new double-deck carriages M7 a specific carriage was provided for each trainset for persons with reduced mobility. The design fully complies with the latest European standards. The multifunctional carriage includes a very spacious toilet and an adapted intercom system specifically for wheelchair users. In addition, all carriages are equipped with more priority seats for persons with reduced mobility, double handles on the stairs and clearly legible information screens. A consultation with the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities took place earlier this week in my office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u90	At the beginning of this week?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u91	Yes. In particular, I reminded SNCB to meet systematically with representatives of people with reduced mobility as part of any RMP-related arrangements. As far as the investments for the docks, especially the dock heights, are concerned, for me it is a top priority in terms of the quality of the supply. This will be discussed with a view to preparing the next IPP in the investment cell. The strategy for upgrading the wharf height will be determined in consultation between SNCB and Infrabel. M7 deliveries are scheduled according to the following schedule: 8 in 2018, 118 in 2019, 161 in 2020 and 158 in 2021. The interviews will be organised according to the same principles as those applied to other types of equipment with the following particularities. After a warranty period of 2 years of the first cars, assistance will be provided by the manufacturer for a limited period of time to ensure a transfer of the know-how. Part of the electronic components will be maintained by the manufacturer for a period of approximately 10 years on the basis of an all inclusive contract. Specific requirements have been introduced into the specifications to limit the life cycle cost in terms of maintenance. As you can see, apart from some electronic components, the interviews will still be carried out in SNCB's workshops. The framework contract covers a period of 12 years but the date of the next orders is not fixed. However, a second order should not be placed until 2020 in order to have a reasonable time to assess the quality of the equipment supplied during the first order. SNCB informs me that the start date for the shortened booking period for journeys between the 18 major stations was set on 1 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u92	Minister, thank you for these complete answers. I would like to insist on two or three elements, without repeating a debate. There is a series of technical aspects in this file, and you have added the question of curves, especially in the Nord-Midi junction, in connection with the use of the space available at peak times. This brings me to the question of pedagogy vis-à-vis users and their representatives. That is why I have reacted to the fact that you have received representatives of people with reduced mobility from your office, which I congratulate you on. I think I felt at the end of the SNCB press release a little annoyed. We have an interest in developing a positive synergy with users. They are able to understand a number of technical considerations. The question of the curve, that of peak hours, of the use of the available space requires pedagogy. Finally, given the delays and the adaptation of the docks, we encourage you to propose possible technical adaptations for future orders. I can only invite you to maintain a permanent dialogue with the representatives of the rail users, who must become the priority, and to adapt the equipment and infrastructure to what is attractive for the train, the possibility of easy and fast access, as for the metro. This is not a detail, it is an essential element for the attractiveness of the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with Mr Cheron's remarks. Article 46 of the Management Agreement states that SNCB must enter into dialogue with the National High Council for Persons with Disability. We have legally anchored that. It is good that you remind SNCB of that article. Of course, I am pleased, probably with others here, that the shortened reservation period will apply on 1 February and I hope that the measure will be extended to other stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u94	According to the latest figures presented, the number of signal exceedances for SNCB-Production-Traction & SNCB-FS drivers increased between 2014 and 2015. Of course, a decrease had been recorded after 2010, but this is probably mainly due to the removal of B-Logistics. Minister, what is the evaluation of the Joint Action Plan "Prevention of Signal Overruns 2012-2015" that has come to an end? Is a new plan planned? How do you explain this increase in signal exceedances? What is the distribution between passenger and freight trains? Can you assure us that the increase in the working time of drivers will not lead to an increased loss of attention of drivers and thus an increase in signal overruns?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u95	Dear colleague, the evaluation of the Joint Plan "Prevention of Signal Overruns 2012-2015" has not yet been finalized. It will be in the next few weeks. In particular, it is on this basis that a decision can be taken to implement a new plan or not. Similarly, the details of signal overrun situations and the explanations of the different cases will occur in parallel with this assessment. The issue of the relationship between driver working time, attention and signal overruns is directly a matter for railway undertakings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u96	Minister, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u97	Minister, according to the Walloon railway unit, SNCB's 2014 plan particularly penalizes Walloon commuters, particularly through the extension of journey times, which is 10% in Wallonia compared to just over 3% on average. It also notes that the requests made by the Walloon government in the context of the 2001-2012 IPP have been abandoned. I will not recall the articles that have been published in recent days about the Thalys line. On the other hand, it would appear that there is now a threshold which is unfavourable to the use of the train. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Is a new consultation of Walloon bodies under the new IPP planned, under what terms and timetable? How do you intend to act so that Walloon interests are taken into account? How will you reverse the trend to prevent the Walloons from deserting trains? What do you think of the recommendations made by the Walloon administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u98	Dear colleague, the Walloon Region is participating in the cell that was created on my initiative and that has to look at the investment programmes of Infrabel and SNCB. It participates, as well as the Société régionale Wallonne du Transport (SRWT), in the intermodality platform set up as part of the future transport plan of December 2017. Its creation may allow the Walloon railway cell to stop criticizing transport plans in which it was not involved. Within this platform, Walloon authorities have every opportunity to express their priorities, choices and orientations. Pending its meeting, SNCB has already met with representatives of the TECs and the Walloon Region on 15 October. A second meeting will be held in February. The various claims are analysed by SNCB and, where appropriate, will be integrated into the December 2017 transport offer. To date, SNCB has not seen any decrease in sales or traffic. The trend is even more in the direction of strengthening. Despite exogenous factors such as the economic context or the unemployment rate, various SNCB surveys show that it is above all the quality of service, in particular punctuality, that needs to be improved in order to regain the confidence of travellers. Only with a high level of service will the railway remain competitive and attractive. SNCB therefore continues to strive to improve them. In the 232-page full report, dated September 19, 2015, there are five recommendations, two of which converge with my strategic vision presented in July. For example, the Walloon Region Railway Unit recommends that multimodal surveys be conducted in Wallonia and that studies be carried out on the multimodal movements of passengers who partly use the train. This approach is fully in line with my concept of a mobility chain, whose train is the central link. The other modes of transport are perfectly interconnected with the rail network in order to create efficient multimodal nodes doping the entire chain. The other recommendations are analysed by SNCB and will be discussed at the next meetings of the intermodality platform. However, in connection with the proposal for an IC test, every hour, in the 200 Walloon cities, I wonder about the reality and the value of creating supply without a demand study. It seems to me more efficient to first identify the needs and then respond with suitable offers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I have no doubt that some points will indeed come back to the table in these various bodies that you have put in place. In particular, I hope that the question of Thalys can be discussed in complete serenity and in the interest of the Region which is dear to me, namely the Walloon Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u100	Question No 8291 by Mr Cheron is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u101	Madam Minister, during the Christmas holidays we were able to read the proposal of the main partner within the government on the regionalisation of the Belgian rail network. Actually, that wasn't new. Previously this thought was also played with. In the written record of my question, I quoted what was said at the time. The president of the N-VA says in the media that the broad lines of Antwerp-Charleroi, Ostend-Liege and so on can certainly be split. It is noteworthy that Mr Descheemaeker, ex-track boss and probably his main advisor on this subject, came to explain on TV that he had proposed this many years ago and had done several studies on it, and that this is the great panacea. Many other experts, including Mr Vansteenwegen, immediately responded that this proposal was bullshit and that it serves a different agenda, because it would cost much more money to the railway companies. It would actually be the most important thing to offer less comfort to the traveller because the travel times would be extended, especially because it often takes seven minutes to change direction and because tracks would be occupied longer. Finally, there would, of course, be a problem in terms of capacity on that north-south link. My question to you as a representative of the government is whether this is a vision that lives and is shared in the government. What is the view of you and your government on Mr Descheemaeker's call for the doubling of the lines Antwerp-Charleroi and Ostend-Liège? Is it technically possible to cut that north-south link and turn the trains somewhere? Are there any studies on the advantages and disadvantages? Mr Descheemaeker says that he has proposed this in the past. I assume, then, that the documents on this matter are available from SNCB. In the context of public administration, I would therefore ask you to deliver these studies to Parliament, given that I assume they have been paid with tax money. Will you respond to the call of the chairman of the N-VA for this to be investigated if this has not yet been done? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, my view is indeed still the same. Such a proposal is not included in the coalition agreement. SNCB has every interest in moving rail links to and from Brussels. The extension will result in a more efficient use of the limited rail capacity of the north-south link. If SNCB cuts all connections across the language border in Brussels, there is simply insufficient capacity on the north-south link. Moreover, cutting train connections causes long stops on the platforms. The Brussels stations do not have sufficient platform capacity to handle these extended stops. An advantage is that there would be no influence on one part of the country in the event of regional strikes. One disadvantage is, for example, the saturation of platforms in Brussels-South and Brussels-North. Low-speed journeys do not have passengers on board and are therefore detrimental to the cost-effective operation of the train. They reduce the smooth operation of the connections, reduce the efficiency of the use of coaches and staff due to shorter routes, and reduce the efficiency of the capacity available on the north-south link. The intention should be to increase the number of trains on the north-south link. According to SNCB, a doubling is always more expensive and will lead to higher costs. A detailed study should show this. No studies within SNCB are known about the division of lines. The linework is studied in the framework of the formatting of the Transport Plan 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u103	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I share your view on the matter. I think it is too crazy for words in these times of saving to propose a split, which will only cost a lot more and which will certainly not be an improvement for travellers. Regardless of which parties sit around the table, that must be the starting point for the debate. I also note that no studies are known at SNCB. I didn't just read that in the paper, I heard it on TV. Mr Descheemaecker cannot have been wrongly quoted, because that was said in the issue and other TV programmes. This has been corrected. According to Belga reports and other incoming breaking news, however, the debate within your majority is not as innocent as it seems. The President of the N-VA has said that the Community debate will be reopened. Mr Vuye is given the task of doing so and resigning as leader of the political group. That is relevant to us, because it concerns statements by the main chairman of the government parties. To what extent will these rulings also have an impact in the context of the multi-annual investment plan? I'm afraid there'll be a lot of resources if that man gets his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u104	Questions Nos 8349, 8421 and 8450 by Mr Wouter Raskin, 8431 by myself and 8436 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u105	Mr President, since the committee is free to carry out its work, I propose that you start immediately a debate on the regionalisation of rail. Mr. President, do you agree? Can we proceed to the vote? [[laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u106	Is there any opposition here? [[laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u107	Mr.President, Minister, among the priorities of your office in 2016, you want to begin a revision of the road code. The purpose of this revision is to clarify and improve the readability of the current Highway Code. In your opinion, this could reduce the risk of an accident. In order to implement this review process, the Regions will also be co-ordinated. Minister, what are the possible avenues for the revision of the road code? What schedule do you have for this revision? When will these changes apply? Do you already have an overview of the articles that will be modified? Can you describe the main changes we must expect? What institutions and levels of authority will be involved in this revision of the road code? What will be the role of each of them? Finally, how do you envisage this collaboration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u108	Mr Devin, there are five tracks I want to follow in the context of the revision of the road code: where necessary, better structure the road code with a view to clarity, reformulate certain articles so that they are more legible and therefore clearer, update certain articles and road signs, take account of technological advances and, finally, pay particular attention to the weakest users. I am in the process of drawing up the roadmap which will include consultation with all stakeholders, in particular the Regions, the various federations and associations and my SPF, taking into account, of course, the input of the citizens who, I would remind you, have responded massively to the call. The substantive work can then begin. It is therefore still premature to list the articles that will be modified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u109	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We attended very informative hearings this morning. I very much hope that you will pay the necessary attention to this, particularly to the hearing of officials of police courts in relation to the enforcement of sentences. Of course, it's not just your department. There are others. It is a matter of linking all of this for maximum efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u110	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the launch of the last Bob campaign on 27 November, Interior Minister Jan Jambon announced that road safety remains a priority and that the terrorist threat would therefore have no impact on the controls scheduled for the end of 2015. It must be noted that the Bob campaign was cancelled as a result of the maintenance of level 3 alerts, which requires the presence of a large number of personnel in the field. In addition, the various police areas in the capital saw a certain risk of putting their police officers at a static barrier. They would then have become an easy target. Contrary to what had been announced, the police did not carry out Bob checks in the capital. Minister, the Bob campaign was cancelled in the capital, but what about the other major cities and police areas in the country? Have any controls taken place in the context of this campaign? Will a Bob campaign be reorganized at another time of year in the capital? Have you seen more accidents caused by driving intoxication in this period than in previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u111	Mr Devin, the Bob campaign runs from November 27, 2015 to January 25, 2016. Based on the figures available to date, 170,405 checks have been carried out at national level, of which 8,885 have been carried out in the Brussels-Capital Region over the period from 27 November to 25 December 2015. As far as its operational organisation is concerned, I invite you to ask my colleague from the Interior. The organisation of preventive campaigns is a regionalised subject. If the Regions and more particularly Brussels consider it necessary to organise additional campaigns outside the Bob campaign organised by the three Regions in collaboration with the IBSR, they can do so without problems. Controls of alcohol and drug driving are a priority for the federal police in the National Security Plan and for the local police in most zonal security plans. These plans also provide for actions outside the regular Bob campaigns. As the campaign is not yet over, I am not in a position to do an objective analysis of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u112	Minister, I will come back later with a question about this objective analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u113	Mr President, Madam Minister, boss of Sirien, Michel Niezen has equipped the Walloon motorways with automatic fixed radars. He recently spoke about the tolerance from which radars are triggered: "In the day, they are set by default to 150 km/h instead of 120. At night, it's set at 172 km/h." From time to time, the threshold is lowered temporarily to give the change. These limits are imposed by the public prosecutor's offices in order to combat the abnormal work overload generated by the finding of speed violations. A comparative study between France and Belgium shows a staggering difference in the number of road fatalities. With 2,000 fixed radars, our neighbour dropped the number of deaths per year from 8,029 to 3,992, a decrease of more than 50%. At the same time, Belgium, with a population seven times smaller, rose from 1,347 killed to 840, a significantly lower percentage. Minister, with such speeds, how does the government intend to achieve the 2020 European target of 200 people killed on Walloon roads? Can you give us a detailed picture of the measures envisaged in order to further penalise such offences? Can you explain why there is such a big difference in the number of deaths on the roads between France and Belgium? How do you intend to remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u114	My colleague, I leave the comments on the radar setting to his author. The federal police reacted to deny these allegations. What matters to me is working with my colleagues in the Interior and Justice to take all the necessary preventive and repressive measures to achieve the target, in line with our European commitments of 420 killed in 2020. Currently, I am working with my colleague the Minister of Justice on two projects that bring significant improvements in the procedures for dealing with offences and thus in the effectiveness of sanctions. On the one hand, the reform of the immediate perception procedure will reduce the work of the police services and, on the other hand, the payment order will relieve the workload of the prosecutors for offenders who do not react to the transaction proposals. Furthermore, I am in favour of the idea that prosecutors should use information on offences found in the BNG Circulation database of the Federal Police in order to be able to cite, where necessary, offenders who too often get away with it by paying for the immediate collection of repeat offences. If we compare the statistics of deaths between France and Belgium between 2000 and 2014, we find that France actually experienced a 58% decrease over this period, and Belgium a 51% decrease. A comparative analysis conducted by the IBSR in 2014 shows, however, that the situation is very different. Comparing the percentage of the total number of deaths associated with each mode of transport, Belgium shows better results than France for car occupants, motorized two-wheelers or heavy goods vehicles. On the other hand, pedestrians and cyclists are more likely to be victims in Belgium than in France. The study also points out that Belgians would be culturally distinguished by a more conciliatory attitude towards certain risky behaviours. Thus, the percentage of drivers who report having a few or many friends who drive after having consumed alcohol is 42 in Belgium and only 25 in France. The percentage of drivers who declare that the others still or very often exceed the speed limits on motorways is 55 in Belgium compared to 29 in France. However, it is very difficult to know all the reasons for these differences in performance with France or other European countries. The fight against excessive speed does not explain everything. I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat here some of the measures that I presented to the General States of Road Safety on 15 December and which more clearly underline my criminal policy commitments in the area of road traffic. The aim is to apply zero alcohol tolerance to novice drivers, to combat recidivism more effectively, to systematize the obligation of anti-start ethylotest, to improve the quality of databases in order to increase the objective and subjective risk of being controlled, to systematize the use of ANPR cameras, to improve the quality of alcohol and drug controls and to combat impunity of offenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u115	Minister, you know that you can always count on me when it comes to defending the general interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u116	I'll go to Binche Carnival!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u117	If there's a train! The one at 10:12 p.m. is to be deleted. I'll start the fireworks at 9:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u118	I'll take the train again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u119	I have a point of honor to take you back to the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u120	Minister, the Walloon Railway Unit believes that SNCB's 2014 transportation plan particularly penalizes Walloon commuters. According to this cell, while SNCB announces an average increase of 3.3% of the 100 most frequented origin/destination pairs, it can be seen that the journey times between the large Walloon cities and the first Brussels railway station (Nord, Luxembourg, Midi) have increased to a greater extent, with an average increase of 10%, or about 5 minutes. In particular, it considers that, on the Walloon side, certain axes now have "psychological thresholds which are unfavourable to the use of the train in relation to the car". How do you explain such a difference between the North and the South of the country? What changes are envisaged to address these problems caused by the transportation plan? Do you intend to take measures to encourage commuters to continue on the train rather than using other means of transportation, such as the car? If so, can you tell us more about them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u121	Dear colleague, I will instead highlight the benefits of the 2014 transportation plan. It is clear that the 2017 transport plan will have to improve the situation further. There is no difference in treatment between north and south in the completion of the transportation plan. Schedule planning is carried out in the same way throughout the network, taking into account the characteristics of the infrastructure, rolling stock and the limits required for the work. The Walloon Region Railway Unit actually compares only the fastest route before and after the 2014 transport plan and deducts a general impact for all passengers throughout the line. On line 96, for example, the impact of the new plan would be more than 7% of the journey time. It is true that for the traveler of Mons who would take the IC-F in 44 minutes yesterday to connect Brussels-Midi in the morning would take from 47 minutes with the IC-14. On the other hand, the same Mons traveller who would take the IR-J in 50 minutes now earns eight 3 minutes per trip with the corresponding IC. Travellers from Soignies who had 27 and 29 minute routes now make the journey in 28 or 29 minutes depending on the relationship. Finally, the passengers of Braine-le-Comte had travel times of 20 and 23 minutes against 20 and 22 minutes. With this approach, which accounts for all passengers at the Walloon IC stations on line 96 between Mons and Brussels-Midi, we get a travel time difference of 0% for Mons, –4% for Tubize, +2% for Soignies and –2% for Braine-le-Comte. On average, for these stations and depending on the number of passengers, the impact on the transport time is –0.35% of the journey time and not +7% as advanced by the Walloon Region Rail Unit. The Walloon Region is invited to take note of the methodology developed above which considers the impact for all passengers of the line and to position itself within the intermodal platform which has brought together since October 2015, the various stakeholders of the SNCB in the construction of the future transport plan 2017. I have asked SNCB to focus on reducing journey times as much as possible by working on station stops and their duration as well as on rolling stock. Finally, SNCB continuously adapts its transport offer to meet the demand for mobility. Thus, since 14 December 2015, the commuters of Binche-La Louvière have had an additional P train in the morning and evening to reach Brussels and the correspondence in Braine-le-Comte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u122	Minister, thank you for the examples you give because they are those of our region. We see that Jurbise, Braine-le-Comte benefit from improvements but this is less so for other parts of Wallonia. I sincerely believe that you know that I hope that you can continue to work in favour of rail for all the users of the country, but you will also have understood it, Walloon commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u123	My question is about the first MR75 motors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u125	We're waiting for PS19! Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, when I see you smiling like this, I see the happiness you have in being with an sp.a. president, a PS MP. You're at home right now! The first MR75 motors dating back to the late 1970s, which were renovated by SNCB, re-appear on the Belgian rail in January 2016. This operation, which aims to give a second youth to 44 car drivers, started last year and will continue until 2020. The cost is estimated at EUR 147 million. The MR75 automotors were recognizable at their characteristic end in the shape of "pig nose", their red livery, their very high benches and especially their often defective doors due to the aging of the equipment. The renovation works will provide an additional 15 to 20 years of life for this equipment. Minister, how many cars have been put back into service at this time? On which lines are they used? Can you tell us more about the interior and exterior renovations to these cars? What is the planned schedule for the return to service of all renovated motor vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u126	Mr Devin, the first renovated motorist was put into commercial service on Monday, January 11, 2016. It mainly provides trains from the Turnhout-Binche relationship. A total of 44 motor vehicles will be renovated. In addition to the renewal of paint, wiring, insulation, interior and windows, you will find below some other major changes, namely the renewal of the heating and ventilation system, the addition of a passenger information system, new toilet modules with closed system including a toilet suitable for people with reduced mobility. It's good that they're closed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u127	For having traveled there very frequently, I can actually tell you that it is better that they are closed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u128	There is also the 220 volt socket and the addition of a multifunctional space with automatic interior doors. In 2016, four motor vehicles will be completed. In subsequent years, this number will be increased to ten motor vehicles per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u129	Minister, the directorates of the railway subsidiaries (SNCB, Infrabel and HR-Rail) have, as they announced, put into force the social measures that must guarantee the increase in the productivity of the railways that you have imposed. As a result, the unions decided to maintain the 48-hour notice of strike filed for January 6 and 7. The National Joint Commission has approved measures to increase productivity. These measures include an increase in the actual number of working days and a reduction in the number of days off in the year of retirement. Minister, is the reduction in days off for SNCB workers an irreversible decision? How many days are we talking about? Can you tell us more about other measures to increase SNCB's productivity by 2020? When will these measures be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u130	Sir, three measures were approved by the National Joint Committee on 16 December 2015. First, the reduction of the entitlement to leave according to the date of the pension. Statutory agents received, at any time of retirement, all of the annual leave for the current year. The annual leave shall be reduced in proportion to the total of the periods of the calendar year in question during which the staff member was not on duty, i.e. all periods for which he did not receive his full pay. There was, as an exception, an exception in the reduction of annual vacation leave for the year of retirement. In the context of measures to increase productivity, this particularity has been rectified. This measure concerns an average of 1,615 pensioners per year between 2015 and 2021 and is applicable from 1 January 2016. The increase in the actual number of working days. The working time of the Belgian railways is set at 36 hours per week for all categories of staff providing full-time services. Since agents often work 38 hours a week, this equivalent gives rise to 13 credit days per calendar year, granted under the conditions laid down in the regulations. For a full-time employee, each time cumulative medical absences, for a reason other than compensatory, fixed and variable, or Sunday and holiday rest, reach 18 days, the number of credit days to be granted will be reduced by one day so that those days of absence do not themselves qualify for compensatory days. This measure shall also apply from 1 January 2016. The third point is the abolition of double compensation for statutory and extra-legal holidays for certain categories of staff. The staff of the Belgian railways have 65 days of rest corresponding to the 52 Sundays in regular cycle and the 13 official holidays. Each year, in addition to vacation vacation leave, an additional number of leave is granted equal to the number of official holiday coincidences on a Saturday or Sunday. These two regulatory points concern all statutory staff employed full-time regardless of the scheme or workplace. On the other hand, in regular cycles (a staff member working Monday to Friday), for example, Headquarters staff, when an official holiday coincides with a Sunday or a fixed compensatory leave, the number of rest periods is reduced accordingly. However, there is no provision for a reduction for staff working in irregular cycles, the 65 rest periods being always guaranteed in addition to the additional days of leave. Therefore, holidays coinciding with a Saturday or Sunday are double compensated for this category of staff. The current decision is therefore intended to correct this regulatory gap. This measure has been applicable since 1 January 2016. Further action will be discussed at meetings in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic310x.u131	I put my question No. 8430 in a written question. This will enable us to end this meeting.
