ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Wim Geldolf, former chairman of the Socialist Group of our Assembly, died in Aartselaar on 20 February 2016. Wim Geldolf was born in Antwerp on 29 August 1928. After his humanities in Deurne, he goes to the University of Brussels. During that period he became a member of the BSP and began to milite in socialist youth. In 1950 he obtained his degree in history at the Vrije Universiteit in Brussels, with a thesis on the Meeting movement in Antwerp. He began his education career and was a history teacher in Deurne until 1961. Afterwards he became an advisor for the Interior in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Paul-Henri Spaak. He was particularly concerned with energy policy and tax reform. The direction of the Volkshogesschool Emile Vandervelde of Antwerp was entrusted to him in 1958. That same year, he became the youngest elected member of the municipal council of the city of Antwerp. He was elected alderman of Public Health and Civil Status in February 1963 and also served as political secretary of the Antwerp section of the PSB. From 1976 to 1982 he was also the first alderman and alderman of Education and Sports. In 1964, he was appointed Secretary General of the international exhibition "de wereld vraagt vrede", organized in Antwerp to commemorate the centenary of the Second International. Wim Geldolf entered our Assembly on 23 April 1968 as socialist representative for the Antwerp district. His efforts to protect the environment as ships of Public Health in Antwerp were given a new dimension when he entered the Chamber. As a member of the Health Committee, he repeatedly sued the pollution caused by car traffic, industry and domestic heating. In this hemisphere he defended the implementation of a national network of centres against air and water pollution. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, our former colleague was also an attentive observer of international policy. Thus, in 1970, he rose against the fact that Greece of the colonels was still part of NATO. He also invested in the field in the fight against Apartheid in South Africa and pleaded for the recognition by Belgium, the People's Republic of China, and for his accession to the UN Security Council. Conflicts between Israel and the Arab countries were also at the centre of his concerns. In another register, Wim Geldolf campaigned for the emancipation of women and equality of rights. As early as the 1970s, he was in favour of liberalizing contraceptive methods and abortion. In 1975 he became president of the BSP Federation of Antwerp, a position he will hold until 1982. In October 1978 he resigned as a representative of the people in order to devote himself fully to his ship's mandate in Antwerp. He put an end to his parliamentary career in the Senate, where he served as a co-opted senator on 15 February 1983. In addition to his memoirs with the title, A piece of old political culture viewed afterwards, Wim Geldolf wrote numerous historical or doctrinal works, such as his writings on Camille Huysmans, Lode Craeybeckx, the Spanish Civil War, socialism and democracy. He was a hard worker with a fruitful parliamentary career where he looked at numerous problems that are still mostly topical. For this important figure of Flemish socialism, his political ideal was always ahead of his career. In the name of our Assembly, I have expressed our deepest condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u3	Wim Geldolf was a politician with a strong local commitment. At the start of his career he is immediately noticed as a youngest member of the city council of Antwerp. Geldolf has a total of 30 years in the city council of which 20 years as ships. Wim Geldolf was a child of the well-known Seefhoek. For him, politics had to be at the service of our citizens. In Brussels he first opts for a career as an advisor to Home Affairs in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Paul-Henri Spaak. Only five years later, he took up his place in the parliament as a socialist elected candidate for the arrondissement of Antwerp. For ten years he regularly went up to the rostrum to deliver inspired speeches, showing great knowledge of the issues. On behalf of the government, I would like to pay tribute to our late colleague Wim Geldolf. His family's here. We wish them much strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a moment's silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 February last died in Genk, at the age of 93, Frans Wijnen, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives. Frans Wijnen was born on 21 May 1922 in Mechelen. After the early death of his parents, he moved to Munsterbilzen, the birth village of their parents, together with his two younger brothers and his sister, where they were taken care of by uncles and aunts. After his humanities, Frans Wijnen wanted to study chemistry at the Catholic University in Leuven. But the Second World War thwarted this plan. After his military service he became a member of the CVP. That was late 1946. Four years later, he founded a family and became an independent contractor. Frans Wijnen was a member of our Assembly, for the CVP, from 1961 to 1971 and from 1974 to 1977. His interest in the ordinary citizen and his strong social sense were the driving force behind his political commitment. It also took the social status of the self-employed and communal policy very seriously at heart. In 1967, he introduced a bill to introduce mandatory evening closures for self-employed traders. The proposed law generated contradictory reactions and was controversial for various reasons. The law finally came into force in 1974 and is now known as the Akkermans Act. Also at the municipal level Frans Wijnen was very active. In 1959 he became mayor of Munsterbilzen. He wore the mayor's shirt from 1977 and then became mayor of Bilzen from 1978 to 1983. Our former colleague committed himself to the construction of social housing in his region. He became president of the Limburgs Tehuis from 1963 to 1990. Under his presidency, the housing heritage of the social housing company Cordium grew spectacularly to nearly 1 300 homes. After leaving active political life in 1987, he continued to invest fully in what he was undertaking. As president of the Munsterbilzen church factory, he played an essential role in the restoration and modernization of the public utility equipment of the parish church. Frans Wijnen was a gentle man who always had an eye for the well-being of the citizens he represented. What characterized him most was his great attention to the others. Our colleague was a sensitive person, deeply concerned with other people's lives. Witness his commitment to the mentally weaker in our society. The people he assisted with counsel and deed are innumerable. He was Christian, he was enterprising, he was social. In the name of our Assembly, I extend our deepest condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you look back on the life story of Frans Wijnen, you will see the story of a man who has served the citizens of our country for a lifetime. For 33 years Frans Wijnen had an executive mandate at local level. He was mayor of Munsterbilzen and was responsible for the merger of Munsterbilzen with no less than 10 other municipalities to the city of Bilzen. After the merger in 1977, he remained active, first as ships and then as mayor of that new city. In parallel, he was the representative of the people in the Chamber. Between 1959 and 1977, he was an active member with special attention to the interests of entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. That was a world that French Wijnen knew very well. As a contractor, he also single-handedly strengthened our prosperity and economy. In addition, he has been chairman of NCMV Limburg. From that angle, too, he defended the interests of entrepreneurs and the self-employed. It was only one of the many mandates Frans Wijnen held in civil society. Frans Wijnen's commitment went even further than that. Before entering politics and business, he has done an even greater service to our country. As a war volunteer, he defended our country. He has made sure that today we can live in peace in a prosperous democracy. Our gratitude for that cannot be great enough. In the name of the government, therefore, I pay tribute to a man who has spent his life striving for a better and prosperous society. We offer our sincere condolences to his family members and wish them much strength in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we also observe silence for some time for this late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u8	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Dear colleagues, on 1 March 2016 in Hasselt died at the age of 80, Evrard Raskin, honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives. Evrard Raskin attended primary education in Eigenbilzen, the village where he grew up, and secondary education in the Sint-Hubertuscollege of Neerpelt and in the Holy Crosscollege of Maaseik. Our former colleague at Ghent University obtained the diploma of doctor in law, in 1958, and degree in history in 1960. In the beginning of his career he devoted himself only to education. First in the humanities in Diest and Maaseik between 1958 and 1960, then from 1960 to 1968, in the normal school in Hasselt. He taught history and Latin there. Since 1950, he has been involved in various Flemish nationalist organizations. After the elections of 23 May 1965, he joined the People's Union. The party then made an election success. The number of VU representatives increased from 5 to 12. Evrard Raskin participated in the development of the party in Limburg which until then, unlike other provinces, was not equally successful there. In March 1966 he became president of the district of Tongeren-Maaseik and became a member of the party board. After the resignation of the Vanden Boeynants-De Clercq government on 6 February 1968, Evrard Raskin launched himself into the electoral struggle within his district. He was elected a member of the House in March 1968 and will sit in our House until April 1977. He passed his baptism of parliamentary fire on 28 June 1968 by speaking on the issue of the Fourons during the debate on the government declaration. In his memoirs entitled From within/the memories of a VU member he referred to one of his most beautiful memories from his political career: his interplay addressed to the Minister of Economic Affairs, Willy Claes, on 2 May 1973, about the Ibramco affair. The Ibramco affair caused the fall of the Edmond Leburton II government in 1974. The case was about the construction of an Iranian oil refinery in Belgium by the Belgian company Ibramco. In addition to institutional issues, our former colleague also showed great interest in the social and economic situation in Limburg, and in particular the future of the mining industry in Limburg. In November 1973, he narrowly lost the party's presidential election against his opponent Hugo Schiltz. He retired from the leadership of the party at the end of 1975, but remained politically active in the Senate from May 1977 to December 1978, as well as at the municipal level. He had been alderman in Eigenbilzen since 1971. From 1976 to 1980, he served on the Bilzen Communal Council. In the elections of 17 December 1978, he no longer ran for a new parliamentary term and withdrew from the political arena to devote himself fully to his profession as a lawyer, which he would continue to practise at the Tongres Bar until 1989. He will finally retire in July 1995. Since 1991, our former colleague has devoted himself to writing historical works. He published biographies of Gérard Romsée, Princess Liliane and Queen Elisabeth of Belgium. For the biography of Gérard Romsée he received the five-yearly Prize Honorary Governor Roppe in 1996. In Limburg's political life, Evrard Raskin has always been a popular figure. His great social movement and his commitment to Limburg, but also to Flanders in general, drove him to engage in politics. Through his work and file knowledge he grew into a respected member of parliament. On behalf of our Assembly, I would like to express our sincere condolences to his family, and in particular our colleague Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u9	In my turn, on behalf of the government, I would like to pay tribute to Evrard Raskin. Our former colleague Evrard Raskin combined a passion for history with an insight into rights. Witness to this was his diploma at the University of Ghent. In his further career, these two would always play an important role. Raskin was active in the Flemish national movement early on and became a popular representative for the Volksunie in 1968, a mandate he fulfilled for almost 10 years. Because of his conviction and file knowledge, he enjoyed a great deal of respect with his colleagues. Evrard Raskin was a politician whose career has many facets. His career as a lawyer has always been an important one, as evidenced by this long career at the Tongres Bar. He was also passionate about writing, with the theme of choosing historical characters. His biographies of Princess Liliane and Queen Elizabeth of Belgium are fascinating reference works, prized for their balance and historical truth. I know his family's here. I would like to take this opportunity to express our condolences to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with today is this new budget hole, one more, more than EUR 3 billion if we stick to your own trajectory. Excuse me for a minute. And it's not a surprise; it was predictable. To be convinced of this, we need only go back to the reports of our work in the Committee on the Budget and the reports of the November and December 2015 plenary sessions. It is also enough to review the opinions of the Court of Auditors. They were clear. So it was written! This has been accomplished! You didn't take anything into account. You have taken an irresponsible refuge in a denial of budgetary realities. And, as every time in this matter, you are caught up in the facts. What are these facts? There is certainly no question of the muddy explanations heard here or there about the economic situation, the international environment or your comparisons with the years 2012 and 2013, when, faced with almost zero growth but nevertheless higher than the euro area, we had to face a mechanical deterioration of tax and parafiscal revenues. No! The facts are elsewhere and they are inscribed black and white in the report of the Monitoring Committee and, before that, in the opinions of the Court of Auditors which are today pebbles in your shoe. Ladies and gentlemen, overestimation of tax revenues, professional discount, personal tax, corporate tax, overestimation of return effects, not taking into account the overestimation of the pivot index, which is written black on white in the report of the Bureau of Planning and the Court of Auditors, legislative projects supposed to bring back a few hundred million still in rade, artificial swelling of the yield of the new measures (e.g. Caiman tax), overestimation of the yield of the increase in VAT on electricity, etc. Add to this that we point out from the beginning what the National Bank confirms, that your tax shift is not financed to the tune of 6.6 billion by 2020. It should also be borne in mind that this budgetary disorder is compounded by government disorder. Indeed, when the Budget Minister referred to the easing of the fiscal trajectory, it was immediately taken over by the members of your government of the Open Vld, the CD&V and the N-VA. My questions are very simple. How are you going to get the country out of this mess? What new sacrifices will you still submit to the people who can no longer from your policy of blind austerity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, it would be the government of good governance, at least that is what we heard. However, we are faced with a billion deficit in the budget. Speaking of good governance! However, many fellow Members, as well as ourselves, warned of a budget gap during the months of October and November 2015. During the committee discussions we made it clear that your estimates were wrong and that there would therefore be a gap in the budget. According to you, none of that was true and that was just left-wing talk. What, however, are we seeing today? Today we see clearly that this is a government of fools. This is definitely a government of schmucks. After all, a mistake of billions has been made. Any employee in a company in Belgium who makes such a mistake today is thrown out by his boss. You make wrong estimates of billions of euros, but you continue. Minister, exactly how much is the billion deficit? Is it 2 billion or 3 billion euros? Or is the N-VA going to be 5 billion euros for that campaign? How many billions of euros do we have to pay? This is not a small calculation error, it is clearly ideological errors. We have warned that all the gifts you give to the richest people and to the big companies in Belgium would cost billions. Minister of Finance, you will not get the EUR 942 billion for the excess profit ruling, and you will still be giving billions every year for the notional interest deduction. This is a gift of EUR 4 billion a year to all the companies involved. Now the debate here in Parliament this afternoon is about who will pay. The debate is not about 2018 or 2019. The real debate is about who will pay. Dear N-VAS, is it the hardworking Fleming, who will have to pay extra VAT on electricity? Is it the hardworking Fleming, who will have to pay another index jump? Is it the hardworking Fleming, who will have to pay extra Turtel tax? No, ladies and gentlemen, for a left-wing party such as the PvdA, it is clear that today the richest people and the big companies have to pay and that a millionaire tax must be introduced in Belgium. 12 000 new millionaires joined in 2015; when will they not pay us? My question is therefore very clear. My question is very clear. Where will you get the amount of EUR 3.2 billion? Will you take it out of the pockets of the workers and servants of this country again, or will you finally get that money from the richest people and from the big companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the students who are attending our debates, it is undoubtedly difficult to do the part and to separate the true from the false. Number quarrels are often ragers' quarrels. Taking a step back, we will remember that here, less than three months ago, we had important debates on the 2016 budget. The CDH, like the other members of the opposition, denounced a 2016 budget on the grounds that it was not credible, because it was based on revenues that were clearly uncertain and uncertain – the Court of Auditors had shown – because it announced painful adjustments and jeopardized the budgetary balance by 2018, which was your objective. You have wiped out these criticisms with a back of your hand and you are now caught up in the numbers of the monitoring committee that is announcing this EUR 3.2 billion slip. It's the embard! Clearly, the 2016 budget is not on the road, already causing Belgium's first downgrading in the eyes of our Eurogroup partners. Prime Minister, I am speaking to you in your capacity as captain, since – and I do not want to be derogatory – budget management is failing and, above all, because disputes arise within the crew, the ministers turning the ball on the responsibility for this slip. I turn to you for your reading of the conclusions of the monitoring committee. What are, in your opinion, the magnitude and causes of this slippage? At what stage of the process have we failed? Is this at the level of expenditure control? Is this at the revenue level? Your diagnosis is important. What is finally the course of this majority? The Budget Minister made a 180-degree turnaround by announcing that the balance by 2018 had become optional, while it was, until then, the cardinal point of the majority. Now it's one option among others. All options are open, everything becomes optional. What is your position, Prime Minister, with respect to the objective of your fiscal trajectory? What options are you going to agree to consider in the context of budgetary control? So, are the proposals for dark cuts in social security acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget gap which the government is looking at is a typical self-indebtedness situation. If one opts for unrealistic figures in autumn, it is logical that one encounters oneself a few months later. Do you remember that statement, Mr Van Overtveldt? It is a statement by Mr Van Overtveldt from 2013, as editor-in-chief of Trends. We should have put it all in our own press releases today as an opposition. That was a statement by Mr Van Overtveldt and the N-VA then; today there is radio silence. We need to look for N-VAS, who dare to say something about the gap in the budget of EUR 3 billion. Since when is EUR 3 billion for your group, Mr De Roover, a detail, a failure diverse? Since when, ladies and gentlemen, are we so sloppy about the money of our compatriots and their concerns? Since when does a 30% party dare not even talk about it anymore? What does the Flemish constitution, Mr De Roover, say about budgetary amateurism? Where's your chairman today? Last few weeks, all the Heads of Government of Europe have had a conscience kicked by De Wever: Merkel can't do it; Tsipras can't! But today he is not even in Parliament to follow the debate on his own ministers. That's the N-VA today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are angry. We are outraged, for we have warned against this. Together with the Court of Auditors, we have warned against a deficit of billions of euros. EUR 1.5 billion on the revenue side, of the total deficit of EUR 3.2 billion, is worth mentioning, Mr Van Overtveldt. Our citizens are also outraged, because a year and a half ago, Prime Minister, you released a government agreement on them that passed on the fiscal effort to them through an index jump, longer work, part-time work, energy bill. They have already made their efforts. They've already had to do their homework. They've already had to do far too much of your government. Your ministers are failing to make their homework decent. The indignation is therefore logical. The questions are also obvious. What will you do in the context of budgetary control? Which route will you follow? Is it true, as your Minister says, that you will release the budget balance in 2018? Who will pay the bill? It is quite clear to us: the citizens and SMEs in our country have given enough; it is time for the big assets and the fraudsters to do their part and Johan Van Overtveldt has to fucking do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, from day 1 you and your government made a promise to the people. You promised that everything would change, now that you were finally free of those annoying socialists. You promised that you would provide a recovery government. You promised me you'd put your house in order. What are we seeing today: people are facing a budget deficit of EUR 3 billion. Let me repeat, Prime Minister: EUR 3 billion. That's not change. The Monitoring Committee's report has made this government's image very clear this week. What do we see after a year and a half, as my fellow Members have already said? Two percent index jump on pensions, on wages, on benefits. Diesel getting more expensive. Electricity getting more expensive. Soft drink that's gonna be more expensive. Every time people were confronted with an invoice increase and every time it was an excuse: we're going to get the money from the people, because we need it to close the hole. What do we see today? A huge hole of EUR 3 billion, Prime Minister. What have you done with the people's money? Where did people's money go? Are you all really so surprised that there is a budget deficit, Prime Minister? Are you surprised? I don't think so. You were warned several times. The opposition has warned you. Eric Van Rompuy warned you. The Court of Auditors has warned you. The European Commission has warned you. Above all, Prime Minister, your administration has repeatedly warned you that the figures you entered in the budget were far too high, that they were unrealistic and not feasible. Again and again you have set aside those warnings. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you claim that you have a report that says the opposite, then I challenge you to give the report here to Parliament, because I do not believe it. Prime Minister, my questions are very brief. What did you do with the money you went to the people to collect? Will you again saddle people with the excuse that you will put your affairs in order and that you will bring about change? I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u16	Prime Minister, I suggest you continue the game of "Who said?" Who said: "Proficiate aan de federale ploeg die begroting op koers houdt zonder nieuwe belastingen die de gewone burger raken"? It's Mr. De Wever, absent, as always. It was doubly wrong because your budget is not on the road and the citizen is affected by your measures. Who recently declared in the Finance Committee that it would be necessary to check that every member of the government had donated work? He's your finance minister here. Mr. Minister of Finance, there is a proverb that says "Well-ordered charity begins with itself"! Finally, Prime Minister, who said, "This time, the end of recreation rang"? It was you, about Greece. We are not yet in a Greek situation, but I want to say to you, 'Mr Prime Minister, the end of recreation has struck in budgetary matters'! Not only are the accounts not good, everyone told you and you denied it, but it is true with the report of the monitoring committee and, above all, it indicates that the socio-economic revenues of this government - magical thinking - do not work! Tax revenues don't go back, social contributions don't go back, our economy doesn't work despite the inhumane efforts you've been asking our fellow citizens. If there is a minister who has not done his job, it is indeed the Minister of Finance. You have to call a cat, a cat! Mr. Minister of Finance, what have you done to combat tax fraud, to correct our tax system, notional interests, excess profit ruling? How did you equip your administration to do its job? You are quicker to do the lesson than to do your job! Unless it is your objective to create a hole in order to have to fill it and justify the measures that affect the most fragile citizens, the middle class, women and young people: the abolition of integration allowances, the questioning of similar periods and other horrors that you have imposed on us since the beginning of this Parliament. Prime Minister, are you going to whistle at the end of recreation? As part of this fiscal adjustment, will your measures this time save the most fragile and the middle class? Are you finally going to take measures that really support tomorrow's economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the various questions which have been put and which I hope will allow me to present the progress of the work of the last few days in the context of budgetary control. First of all, here is some information on the figures. Following the monitoring committee, as several have indicated, in order to achieve the objective of improving the structural balance by 0.6%, a complementary effort of EUR 2.2 billion will indeed have to be made. The EUR 3.2 billion referred to correspond to a goal not of "evolution", as the European Union calls it, but of a "level" target which also takes into account the situation starting in 2015. These are the elements of the diagnosis at the beginning of the communiqué drawn up by the monitoring committee. That was the first point I wanted to highlight. Secondly, is it the first time that a federal government in Belgium has faced such a difficult and delicate challenge in the context of budgetary control? The answer is no. It's not the first time. An effort of €2 billion was made in February 2012 and an effort of €2.8 billion in March 2013. There is an arbitrator: the FPS Budget website contains all the information. I do not want to minimize the magnitude of the difficulty we face, but I would like to point out that this is not the first time that a government, at the beginning of the year, in the first quarter, has been forced to adjust revenue and expenditure measures to meet the commitments that have been made. I do not, of course, want to evade the inquiries concerning the work of the government. The question was asked: there is a difference in expenditure and one in revenue. This is the principle of budgetary control. As far as expenditure is concerned, it is true that there is a deviation from the programming carried out. As early as the afternoon in which the report was submitted to the Government, the Government immediately started the various working groups in order to examine, line by line, the status of the decisions taken, in order to assess the extent to which they corresponded to or deviated from the objectives set in the previous months. As far as tax revenues are concerned, I confirm that there is a gap of EUR 1.4 billion compared to the targets set. I share two thoughts with you in this context, whether you belong to the majority or the opposition. My first thought is that it is crucial for the future to improve the methodology. That is a demand of the Minister of Finance, in consultation with his administration. A macroeconomic approach is of course important, but it needs to be clearer and more refined. The chairman of the FPS has committed himself to working on the methodology. The aim is to have a more realistic view of the tax revenue perspective. Secondly, let us have the intellectual honesty to recognize that this year is the first year to succeed the implementation of the reform of the State, which amends the mechanisms of the financing law. The first effects were felt in 2015 and 2016. Therefore, it is logical that we should take this reality into account. Finally, I come to the budgetary balance. Several speakers asked me about this. I don't want to evade the question either. Let's be precise! What did the Minister of Budget say in response to certain questions? It is clear that when budgetary work is carried out, the efforts to be made during the budgetary path are examined in the light of European criteria, on the one hand, and revenue and expenditure, on the other. In this regard, I would like to state that, of course, the government agreement – the agreement of the four parties – plans to achieve a balanced budget in 2018. I would also like to say that our ambition is to respect European commitments in all dimensions. We need to bring about credible and realistic fiscal consolidation along with structural reforms in order to modernise our economy and strengthen employment capacity. I immediately took the initiative to start a dialogue with the European Commission in order to see how, in agreement with the European institutions, we can achieve an objective for the path and structural reforms. I conclude these few words by telling you that this government has indeed chosen the difficulty. We chose to achieve two goals at the same time. On the one hand, a work of sustainable consolidation of our public finances, to ensure that we are put in order. This is not simple, we must constantly adjust, adapt and improve the decisions taken for sanitation. On the other hand, we also want to succeed in the country's economic recovery, to create more jobs and to support competitiveness. In a few months we have made many crucial and fundamental decisions for the future. We must indeed wait for the coming months to allow time for these measures to produce their first effects. Some talk, some say. Others are acting. We're acting! We are at work and we will succeed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u18	Prime Minister, your answer, not surprisingly, is not only disappointing but, above all, confirms your management of public finances over the course of the week. You, Prime Minister, are responsible for the deterioration of our public finances. You're mismanaging the country! Our citizens will pay the price: less social protection, less public services and more taxes on consumption. In this regard, where has the so-called good management of the N-VA gone? Undoubtedly swallowed up in the budget hole that she herself contributed to digging! One important thing, Prime Minister! Remember, remember, remember, remember, You have already attacked workers, pensioners, beneficiaries, people who are sick by your unique measures. Do I have to recall the index jump and taxes on consumption, electricity in particular? The question today is simple. What are you going to take from them again? Will you have the courage, on the contrary, to take the necessary steps, to change your diletting mentality? We do not have the right to be so unserious when it comes to public finances, the general interest and the standard of living of our fellow citizens. You lack courage, lucidity and an elementary sense of justice, which is in essence the mark of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u19	Prime Minister, I note that you have not answered a few questions. The first concerns the debate on the 2016 budget. Many of my colleagues have demonstrated by a+b that you knew that the 2016 budget was built on sand. The debate we had in this parliamentary chamber on the 2016 budget was based on a lie, the aim of which was to camouflage the fact that all the gifts you have given to businesses would cost money to the state budget. You're not answering that question. Secondly, stop making us laugh with this fable that ultra-liberal right-wing forces would be the guarantors of good public finances. We have never had such a big hole in our budget, thanks to your management of public finances. Third, where are you going to get the money? Several colleagues have asked you the question. This is the debate we should have today. You didn't get a word about it. I will make it clear that today, the whole population, whether in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels, is tired of paying VAT, tired of paying the index. Long-term patients are tired of paying for your austerity. Today, Prime Minister, go get the money where he is. There have never been so many millionaires in Belgium. Take your courage with two hands, and go tax the millionaires instead of going again to get the money from the workers and from the social beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u20	Mr Prime Minister, there are some who speak, of course! I'll admit I'm part of it. It would be nice if others could listen to them! Frankly, what we are saying today, we said that three months ago and you denied it. That's why I'm really outraged by your answer. Of course, this is not the first time a government has had to make budgetary control. But it is still the first time that, in such proportions, there are two denials. First of all a denial of reality: when the opposition presented its arguments, you swept them away. And then, to a denial of responsibility, because once again, as the Minister of Finance had done, you first pointed out the responsibility of the FPS Finances, then you invoked the sixth reform of the state. It's always the fault of others. Not the shadow of a self-criticism in your speech. I am therefore particularly concerned, because obviously it is our fellow citizens who are going to pay the bill for your budgetary error. They paid it for the first time, during the austerity measures at the beginning of the legislature. They paid it a second time when the tax shift was adopted, and they will now pay it a third time. For us, it is not acceptable to envisage clear cuts in social security that would affect the weakest of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u21	Prime Minister, the longer you sit in the government with the N-VA, the more you start to look like. It's always someone else's fault: look at the past, look at the sixth state reform... When do we get to see a prime minister taking up his responsibilities and leaving behind the stage of denial? You'll still be protecting your Minister of Finance. Anyone who kills EUR 1.5 billion in income, Mr Van Overtveldt, should leave in another country. Should the Greek Finance Minister do so, you would be making quite a noise here! You would call the European Commission to tell Greece to go to jail. Soon you will be on the bench yourself, and rightly so! We are also in the process of European revival. You must dare to tell me. Have you ever looked at our country's growth rates, Prime Minister? They are lower than the European average, they are worse than they used to be. You are not in the process of European revival. Your budget is out of order and there is no prospect of getting better. Where are we supposed to get the money? That is quite clear to us. Mr Van Overtveldt must start with the EUR 900 million illegal state aid. Mr Van Overtveldt must start a serious fight against tax fraud. Our citizens have already given enough. Our citizens have had enough. If you want to play with money, Mr Van Overtveldt, do it at the casino. There you can play with money, but not as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u22	Prime Minister, you are referring to the previous government. I just want to ask you one thing. I only brought a little mirror because I didn't know that would be your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u23	Look at this, Prime Minister. That's what this is about. Your government has chosen to get the money from the people. The EUR 3 billion deficit is your responsibility, Prime Minister, it is the responsibility of you and the entire government. You can keep hiding behind a thousand and a thousand reasons. Please take responsibility and stop telling people that you are using their money to fill the gap in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u24	Prime Minister, we have just witnessed a denial of reality. You deny reality. You make comparisons that don't hold the road. We are in a low-rate environment, with low oil prices. Considerable efforts have been made. The tax shift is not funded. And you say that these three billion euros, it's no big deal, that it's someone else's fault! What doesn't work is your software! What we're witnessing is the crash van de verandering! It doesn't work, Prime Minister. I'm asking you to change the calculator. Take a calculator that makes fair budget assessments, goes to get the money where it is, changes our tax system to corporate tax, makes more contribution to capital income, fights against tax fraud, but especially saves the most fragile middle class you've already hit hard! And above all, reserve resources for an intelligent economic recovery, which will support tomorrow's employment! Alternatives are possible, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u25	Prime Minister, I have already questioned you about the mad agreement with Turkey in November. At that time Turkey was planning, at least the promise, to stop the boats with refugees towards Greece. Meanwhile, it appears that Turkey has been waving these boats for months. Now Turkey says it will still keep its promise of November, but in return it does not want EUR 3 billion but EUR 6 billion, an early visa waiver and accelerated accession negotiations. The European Union is apparently on sale, because every Turkish demand was met. The European Union is apparently so powerless that it must outsource the problems it cannot control itself to a country such as Turkey, which has created the problems, to a country such as Turkey which is also known as North Korea to the Bosphorus. Prime Minister, you are going with a man such as Erdogan, who is once again killing Kurds, who is acting harshly against critical press and who muzzles, who let a manifestation of women's rights rage last week. Because of the political deal you agreed to last week, you are fully engaged in the blackmail policy of a man who cannot even spell the word democracy or human rights. The deal won't solve anything either. He's creating new problems. The resettlement policy, for example, will only ensure that the flow of asylum is not tempered, but that it is facilitated. The suction effect will only increase. Prime Minister, I have two specific questions for you and I hope that I will also have two specific answers. Firstly, will you, as always, play the good boy of the European class and continue to agree to the deal? Or will you resist? Will you join in supporting the Hungarian Prime Minister's veto? A second question concerns the visa requirement. I want to know whether the government is in favour of abolishing the visa requirement for Turkey, regardless of the technical details and the date. It's the principle that matters to me. It is an old wish of Erdogan to open the borders to 78 million Turks to strengthen their presence in Europe. I want to know from our government whether it is in favour of this or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are getting to the bottom! Europe is touching the bottom! On Tuesday morning, when we woke up, when we learned of the outline of the agreement negotiated between Turkey and the Twenty-eight, of which you are a member, Prime Minister, on behalf of Belgium, there was only anger, incomprehension, sadness and disgust for my group. How can our country so betray the fundamental values that have led us to always support an ambitious idea of Europe, including solidarity? How can a country that is the founder of the European idea like ours today take shape in a fortress Europe, a Europe of bargaining? How can a power like the European Union close to hundreds of thousands of people fleeing war, atrocity, terrorism? How can a power like the European Union violate rights protected by international treaties and conventions? We're building a stronghold Europe. We give in to the fortress of populism. Can this Europe still know what solidarity is? Remember: lack of solidarity to meet the challenges Greece faces, barbed wires, walls and other insults to freedom of movement in some Member States without any sanction. On Monday, we were hoping for a European start. It was hoped that there would be a shared solution between Member States. It's hard to wake up. It's hangover! Europe has relocated and traded the challenge of welcoming the most vulnerable, whereas the solution should have been borne by all Member States. All of them should have taken their responsibilities. We have simply postponed our obligations to the outside world, in addition to raising them. You promise Turkey six billion euros, an acceleration of accession and visa facilities. Is that the selling price of refugees, Prime Minister? It is true that we must negotiate with Turkey but respecting international law. It is crucial to negotiate with Turkey, but here it is not cooperation but bargaining, Prime Minister. I would remind you that last week a Turkish press group was muzzled and placed under state control. Turkey massacres Syrian Kurds fighting against Daesh, and you intend to speed up Turkey's accession! Prime Minister, my first question is the expression of the shame I feel. How dare you barter between a Syrian and a Syrian? A Syrian returned from Greece and a Syrian from Turkey who is to relocate. What about Afghans, Libyans? Where are they? Are we really facing a firm and definitive agreement? You've negotiated. Are you among the Twenty-eight? Or is it a request, as your Foreign Minister repeats? The management of asylum in Turkey is "outsourced". How do you explain it? Was it not better to seek intra-European solutions by respecting and preserving Schengen? Furthermore, are we going to respect our international obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u27	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to read the statements made in the press in the hours following the search for an agreement between the European Union and the Erdogan regime, I note this quote from a leader, unfortunately unidentified, but I dare not believe that the news agencies do not report an verified statement: "We are dealing with master singers, and they know very well how to play our European divisions and weaknesses." This is how someone who was probably at the heart of the negotiations described the attempt – because nothing is yet definitively concluded – between the European Union and what I call the Erdogan regime, I want to say that. Yesterday, in a very dignified way, several voices were raised in the European Parliament – and the least was that of Guy Verhofstadt. Indeed, he said: "We deliver Europe's keys to the Turks, who will decide who is a refugee and who is not." I think he said things with strength, clarity and courage. So it is true: can it be thought that the European Union is handing over its policy of accepting political refugee candidates to a third State which, today, offers no guarantee in terms of respect for fundamental freedoms? That's the real question! Is it acceptable for the European Union to be feet and fists linked to the Erdogan regime? I totally refuse it! We expect European leaders, Prime Minister, something other than this masquerade. I'll be told, "Yes, but this may be the only way to fight smugglers." No! The real way to combat them is to provide the European Union with a genuine police capacity at its borders. The three or six billion we propose to give to the Turkish State, it is rather our border control policies, the Frontex Agency and our resources that should be allocated. Prime Minister, I ask you, on behalf of those who still want to feel an enchantment for Europe, that the European leaders regain full control of this policy of candidates for political asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this pre-agreement rightly raises ethical questions, but is there an alternative? It certainly does not come from those who want to fold back on their own and who want to make Europe a fortress with barbed wire and fences. The European solution is not perfect, but there are positive points. The freedom of choice of refugees registered in Turkey is limited and they can be told to go to countries such as Slovakia, Croatia and even Spain and Portugal. There is no choice anymore and it is making it more difficult for the smugglers of human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now faced with a flow of refugees that we cannot control. Now people are drowning on the Mediterranean. There might be perspective tomorrow. Prime Minister, I have the following questions. The pre-agreement expressly provides for respect for international law. For us, this means that every individual asylum seeker is entitled to apply for asylum, but not to get it. And if asylum is refused, it must be deported within the lines of international law. How will you see to that? Negotiating EU accession does not mean for a country that it can and will join effectively, even in the long term. I would ask you to watch over the following principle. A country that does not respect human rights and restricts freedom of the press is not eligible for EU membership. I come to my final question. The extra funding is not a blank cheque for the Turkish Government. The money should go to concrete reception initiatives, to organisations responsible for providing shelter, health care and education. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that more than 400 000 Syrian children do not receive education in Turkey today, whereas they must be the future of that country? It is important to ensure that the funds are used for them, but how will you monitor them, Minister? Finally, with regard to those who think this is too much money, I say the following. We can do Turkey bashing, but at the moment more than 2.7 million people are staying there. Offering them shelter and health care, teaching them and a future is not obvious either. We must also pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are all aware that Europe is actually failing in dealing with the refugee crisis. We're not getting together. It has been said a few times, first it was five to twelve, then it was five to twelve, and I think it is now a quarter to twelve. What does this mean for people? Today, on television every night, people see images of other people trapped between borders, for borders, whether or not with children, sometimes with sick children. That evokes a lot of emotions: some feel pity and others feel powerless and others turn off the TV camera because they don't want to see those images anymore. There is a feeling of powerlessness and lack of control. It is therefore extremely important that the European Member States, after all, all of us belong to a club, together, take the initiative to define an approach, both politically and in practice, in terms of management. Mrs Merkel has said that we are going to manage this, we can control it. When? If we hold each other and draw a picture. It is also important that the agreements are complied with. There have been agreements about spreading, but not a human being who cares. That way, of course, there will never be an agreement. Of course, we must help Greece, Turkey, Jordan, the countries that receive refugees. We must also tackle trafficking in human beings and ask who will be rich and who will act against them. There have been quite a few summits in Europe. What was the contribution of the Belgian Government there? Do you think that the deal they are trying to make with Turkey is balanced? Do you think that there are enough guarantees from the authoritarian regime that everything will be democratic and respectful of the conventions in this area? Finally, let me express a feeling. Turkey is negotiating a plan with Europe. What does President Erdogan do? He restricts freedom of the press and on International Women's Day he says that women should go back to the hearth. Either he's dumb, or he's got bad counselors, or he's playing with our feet. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, our group is also not happy with this pre-agreement with Turkey. There was a detestable climate, an impression of contempt, a sense of power, an impression of ukase, an impression of blackmail towards Europe. It is not the language that is expected from an allied country, on the part of a country that claims that it is destined to return to the European Union. It's not a friend's language! It is a hostile language that has been delivered to us by Turkey! Then, can we imagine that this agreement is reliable? The Erdogan regime has repeatedly demonstrated that it did not stand up to its cooperation with the European Union and Belgium. What can be expected from a country that has been so far prohibiting NATO ships from patrolling the Mediterranean to fight smugglers while it is itself a member of NATO? What can we expect from a country that violates human rights, which has been so far as to support the Islamic State against the Kurds, which has been so far as to set fire in its own country to win elections? What can we expect from a country like this? Prime Minister, who knows if tomorrow this cheque, which was three billion yesterday and six billion today, will not be nine billion? Who knows how asylum applications will be examined by Turkey? We have indeed entrusted them with our asylum policy! We have already included Turkey in the asylum policy and it will be according to their criteria! Will there still be many Yezidis, Kurds, Christians who can come if Turkey considers their asylum application tomorrow? Prime Minister, let's get together! We have the means, the principles, the values to ensure that the European asylum policy is safeguarded, that we are helping the Greeks in the Mediterranean and that we can settle our asylum policy ourselves without entrusting it to Erdogan Turkey, who will do what it wants and whose toy we will be!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u31	Mr Prime Minister, on 3 December 2015, I asked you some questions on the same subject from the same place. I then started with the unfortunately very realistic determination: "Friends choose you, allies happen to you." I remember, by the way, that CD&V reacted in the same way, laughing. The more it changes, the more it stays the same [[.]] We are more than three months away today. Some seem to want to conduct foreign policy in a vacuum, as if there were no other reality outside this hemisphere with its high-minded ideals. When Minister Reynders and a number of other ministers left Ankara this week, it was a coincidence that this happened at a particularly painful time. I do not think we can give in to the idea that we can escape the reality of the world and pretend that the outside world is acting only in accordance with the principles put forward in this hemisphere. We are in favour of a realistic and pragmatic approach. But, Prime Minister, this being said, the impression arises... A few months ago, on 19 October 2015, I also addressed you in the European Affairs Committee on this matter. I said then that we are at risk of slipping into a slippery slope, that we are at risk of entering an internal Turkish agenda, and that we are at risk of being blackmailed. I have to say, Prime Minister, five months after my first intervention and three months after my second, that the facts have not reassured us in this respect. Today we read that the Turkish Minister for European Affairs said that the agreement applies only to future refugees, and that at best it concerns several hundred thousand people, not millions, people. Hence the questions that concern us, against the background of a pragmatic approach. How can you guarantee us that Turkey, which, as has been said by previous speakers, has a little confidence-building past in terms of agreements, will comply somewhat with the agreements? How can you guarantee us that the resources we provide for the reception of refugees on the ground, which we are in principle very much in favour of, will not be abused by the regime? How can you guarantee, and this may go a little further, that the routes that are part of the agreement today, for example, are not being swarmed by other routes, including over Turkish territory, by land, so that the content of these agreements could also be undermined by Turkey? Our concerns about this, Prime Minister, are extremely serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am a European believer, I have always been and always will be. I remember that thirty to thirty-five years ago at university on campuses the European ideal, the European dream, created the necessary added value in politics. There was a political debate, and if it was rather narrow-minded, there was the added value of the European dimension that made many people say: let us, small and medium-sized countries, join forces and ensure that a strong political and economic power can be realised on that continent of Europe. Prime Minister, let's just say things the way they are. The enlargement of the Union to 28 Member States has gone too fast at a certain point. Enlargement has not been accompanied by the necessary deepening. We put the cart on for the horses. I have often said that we have introduced the euro without sufficient economic integration. We have introduced Schengen and abolished internal borders, but there has been insufficient attention to the defence and surveillance of those external borders. Is that why we have to throw away the baby with the bathwater? Do we now have to burden Europe with all the sins of Israel? I don't think so! Europe is now becoming an easy bogeyman to whom everyone refers to say what cannot be done within its own narrow national borders. I say again today: those who preach to return to the past and think they can make this happen in our own areas, with the narrowness of their own Member States, their own national borders, wandering. Today we must dare to take steps forward and certainly not backwards. As far as European asylum and migration policy is concerned, the solution will be European. We will have to respond to two challenges in the short term. Firstly, how can we achieve uniform application of the Geneva Convention in Europe? How can we achieve this at the external borders which we must better guard and defend together? Secondly, how can we achieve a fair distribution of effort between all the European Member States? You must give me one more moment, Mr President. We should not look at another country. We must make this political effort together. At that time, looking at Turkey, especially with the way that country has evolved in recent weeks, months and years, is a weakness. Turkey cannot guarantee the application and interpretation of the Geneva Convention. What is happening there in terms of political rights, minorities and freedom of the press, Europe must react strongly to this. I am not prepared to negotiate these fundamental values, especially in Istanbul's carpet market. Let's make that very clear. I'll come to my questions. Was our country sufficiently involved in the preparation of the negotiations that took place at the informal summit with the German and Turkish Governments? That's where a preliminary agreement came out. Will this preliminary agreement remain the basis for the final agreement? What is the Belgian Government's attitude towards the formal summit that is coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u33	Mr President, once again I thank the various speakers. I would point out from the outset that I share the unpleasant feeling that many have expressed. I would like to go back to the course of the last few days. The stakes are so difficult and delicate: how to approach this issue of refugees coming to Europe? The first point I would like to highlight is that the meeting was held at a time when the previous day, just a few hours from the actual beginning, a new proposal was put forward by the Turkish side and probably discussed in a privileged way with some of the Member States, namely Germany and the Netherlands. This therefore created a very unpleasant surprise effect for most delegations around the table, who felt that they had not been properly informed about the round-up of the discussions that had started outside the Twenty-Hight, to say the things as they are. Secondly, the new proposal by the Turkish Government follows the logic of re-admission on the one hand and re-admission on the other hand. There is indeed the perception, an unpleasant feeling, that an invoice has been given to Europe, an invoice with some very important and very delicate points. I want to make that clear. For example, there is a demand from the Turkish Government to speed up the visa liberalisation procedure. On this point, the government's position is extremely clear. I strongly pleaded, supported by many others, that under no circumstances could the visa debate be turned into a political matter. This is indeed a technical question. To be precise, the Turkish Parliament must vote on more than nine parliamentary texts in order for Turkey to meet the conditions laid down. There is also the need for a careful examination by the European Commission to verify whether or not the conditions are met. I have also pointed out that there is no question for us of accepting anything about visas in the absence of clear and respected rules on readmission and return policy. I come to the second point: the accession process. I do not need to repeat here that the agreement of the European institutions on the principle of accession dates back to 2005? It was in 2005 that a negotiation in principle was opened to embark on a process of accession. The Turks, for sure, use – I was going to say "instrumentalize" – this momentum to try to broaden the opening of chapters in the negotiations. I made it clear here a few months ago that dialogue in the context of the accession process does not mean that Turkey fulfils the conditions for entering the European Union. There is therefore no obligation to achieve results. And here I say with the utmost clarity that I have the greatest doubts, that I am extremely sceptical about Turkey's ability, sooner or later, to meet the conditions for joining the European Union. I'm very clear. Turkey is asking for EUR 3 billion more. Of course, that gives the impression of blackmail. I use that word. However, the additional disc, which the Turkish party asks, should not be a blank cheque. That's obvious. This is not about money for the Turkish government. It is well intended to support the improvement of the reception of refugees in camps on the other side of the Mediterranean, in Turkey or in safer areas around Turkey. Some speakers raised the question of status. Is this a pre-agreement, a deal? There is an important point in this regard. The first is that there are legal questions. There are legal questions about the logic of the return policy from Greece to Turkey and the settlement. In any case, this must be done in accordance with the international conventions and the Geneva Convention. Secondly, I would like to inform you that Donald Tusk has been given a mandate to try, in the coming days and before next week, to clarify all these positions, modalities and provisions. So there is still a great deal of work to be done before the Summit next week. Finally, I will state some more political considerations regarding the European project. I, too, believe that he has been suffering for several years from successive crises. We see Europe in the context of crises: economic crisis, financial crisis, refugee crisis. Mr Dewael, I share your reasoning. I believe that the enlargement which was part of a strategic choice was implemented in good faith by its artisans, but without them having measured that we had not sufficiently deepened beforehand, we were creating difficulties. Over the last few months, after the European summit, I have noted that there is a fundamental difference of opinion in the European Council. On the one hand, there are countries that do not intend to work together in the framework of a European project. On the other hand, there are countries such as Belgium, which make a voluntaristic choice to strengthen the European project. I am aware that the refugee challenge is an issue for the construction of the European project. I said it after Brexit and I say it again in this European debate: I am convinced that we must mobilize to achieve a multi-speed Europe that enables those who decide to do so to work more closely together to advance the European project and reenchant it, and to get out of this logic of crisis and greyness. We need to move towards a project that offers opportunities for our fellow citizens, as has been the case for previous generations and for those still before. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u34	Prime Minister, you have not reassured me. I haven't heard any warranty or qualified condition. Make no mistake: Sultan Erdogan is not an ally. He's a wolf in sheep's clothing. He doesn't even have a lot of sheep's clothes on anymore. He's not hiding his behavior or his hidden agenda at all. He doesn't offer a solution. By making deals with him, you're creating new problems. I regret to say from your answer that we are dealing with Erdogan, as a wolf in sheep's clothing, and with the government, as sheep in wolf's clothing. You speak tough language. I hear all kinds of fellow Members saying 'I read that in the newspapers too 'that Turkey can never join the European Union', but please be a little consistent. After all the human rights violations there, is it logical that the accession negotiations should be stopped rather than accelerated? What are you doing in Europe? In the European Union, you say yes, Mrs Merkel, no, Mrs Merkel, yes, Mr Erdogan, certainly, Mr Erdogan. There you are the good sheep by Merkel and Erdogan. The European Union will not provide a solution with Erdogan. For a year now, the European Union has been watchin' powerless and jerking off from European summit to European flop. If there is something that does work, then I completely disagree with Mr Dewael, and to which we owe some thanks, then that is the decisive action of Member States with responsibility. Instead of blaming them for their fences and walls, we can say thank you today, Austria, thank you, Hungary, thank you, Slovenia, thank you, Serbia and thank you, Croatia. In this way, and with this force of action, we will finally find a solution in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u35	Prime Minister, I thank you for your answers, but unfortunately I do not think that makes much difference. You say Europe suffers. Yes, we know that. Everyone is expressing concerns about Turkey. We have these concerns. But we are not here to bring Turkey to trial. The most important thing, unfortunately for you, is the trial of the lack of reminding your colleagues of the European spirit, of solidarity. You fall behind technical explanations, while the problem is political. In fact, how can solidarity be set up at European level within the Schengen framework, without re-establishing borders, to welcome people who fear for their lives, because of wars that are at our doorstep? I'm ashamed of you. I am ashamed for us, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u36	Prime Minister, you share a number of points that we have made. You have clarity about the future of Europe and, whenever you carry a message worthy of what the founding fathers of the European Union wanted, you will not find any divergence between us. In the draft agreement with Turkey, I believe that we are at a key moment to know what Europe is still capable of assuming outside itself and by itself. European leaders must have the will to refuse this agreement. This is the time for a credibility test, under the penalty of allowing some countries that have recently joined the European Union to dictate their laws on their own within the European Union. Europe is weak because it is afraid. Maybe it's time to reverse that perception. What is terrible in the agreement with Turkey is that Europe loses credibility and that the Erdogan regime gains. He even became an indispensable partner in any search for agreement in relation to the conflicts in the region, when he was not worthy of participating in the search for those agreements, because he himself was the cause of a number of conflicts in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. This pre-arrangement may be a solution, but the best solution is a diplomatic agreement on Syria so that an important cause of the flow of refugees is stopped. I also call on you, together with your fellow Members of the European Parliament, to do even more of this and not just to leave it to other great powers. For the rest, I have the following opinion, Prime Minister. Watch over the implementation of any agreement. Trust is good, but control is even better. Stay with any multilateral and bilateral contact with Turkey to call for human rights, freedom of the press and respect for international law. In Europe, at a forthcoming European summit, continue to insist on the control of our external borders and the effective implementation of a distribution plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we can point to Eastern European countries, and rightly so, but we can also point to Western European countries. Spain does not yet do one tenth of what we do per 1 000 inhabitants. France does not yet do a quarter of what we do per 1 000 inhabitants. They too must assume their responsibilities in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u38	Prime Minister, I hear you saying that we must negotiate. You are absolutely right about that. We must negotiate with the Member States and, of course, with Turkey. It takes two to tango. We have to have the discussions. I just want to point out that we do not have much more time to negotiate. You also mention the division within the European Union and the Member States. Well, I think you should take a look at your own government, because there is also a division there about dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u39	Prime Minister, I appreciated the tone of your remarks. You confessed to the difficulty of negotiating with the Turks. You even said that you were somehow mistreated by not knowing in advance the new proposal of the Turkish side. I think we must stop being abused by Turkey. We must respect our project, our values, our principles. I do not think that Turkey should be entrusted with the migration and asylum policy. She'll take it against us. It will not help us in this question. I think you have to be lucid, just like you are. I would tend to ask you to tell your foreign minister too. Because where you see the instrumentalisation of negotiations with Turkey, he is delighted. Where you had to correct, a few months ago, the contortions on the recognition of the Armenian genocide, he was until then in his reports to Turkey. We must be firm in relation to our values, in relation to what we believe and in relation to this issue for which we will find solutions ourselves, and not by entrusting Europe's keys to Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u40	Mr President, it has been established here that everything we are talking about today is the result of a completely failing European policy at the external borders. We are paying a very high price for this today. Against this background, I am pleased that during their visit to Turkey this week our ministers did not wantlessly throw themselves at the feet of the Turkish opponent and made it clear, in the light of the way Turkey deals with the Kurds, that we stand for certain values and are not prepared to accept everything in all circumstances. Prime Minister, as far as Turkey's future accession is concerned, there are many conditions today which are absolutely not met. In recent months, people have moved further away from membership rather than closer. I would like to say the following. All the defenders of the European idea in this hemisphere must be fully aware that Turkey's possible accession to the European Union might once and for all destroy the capacity of the whole European story. Any friend of the European idea must know that at that moment that story may be over. That is also an argument in this debate. During the Eighty Years' War, a number of people joined Margaretha of Parma. And when we talk about Europe, I want to end with a quote from Berlaymont, who then said to Margaretha van Parma: 'N'ayez pas peur, madame, ce ne sont que des gueux'. I hope that we will not continue to face Turkey as a bum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u41	Mr President, the main reason why Turkey is being manoeuvred into this important strategic position today is the failure of the European Union itself. Let us not forget that. The lack of political courage to ensure with 28 countries that the external borders of the European Union can be adequately monitored is the result of the failure of our own political responsibility. Mr Prime Minister, I would therefore like to give you the following. In the following days and weeks, we must negotiate with Turkey. From realpolitik and with a certain pragmatism, I say that we should indeed do so. However, the time has come to respond badly to a number of unreasonable demands and questions relating to the liberalisation of visa policy or to the enlargement of the European Union and the candidacy of Turkey itself. In the coming period, we must first and foremost ensure that the European Union itself comes out stronger. That will also make us stronger and more profiling towards Turkey. Let it be clear, as far as I am concerned, Turkey's candidacy is not at the moment, nor is it a number of other demands. And if money is given, whether it is EUR 3 or EUR 6 billion, then these funds must go to the organisations and the people themselves, and certainly not to the state of Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u42	Minister, last week we learned that 2015 was a breakthrough year for e-commerce in Belgium. There were no less than €8.2 billion of products and services sold over the Internet, and that is €1 billion more than envisaged. On average, 102 euros are spent per purchase on the internet. But these purchases are still being made to a large extent in our neighbouring countries. Depending on the source, it amounts to 50 to 70 % of purchases. That is not difficult, if one knows that 14 percent of the. domain names in the Netherlands are registered. You will understand that the vast majority of these jobs are in our neighbouring countries. As a result, we are losing around 4 billion euros in turnover in Belgium. In order to give the e-commerce in Belgium every opportunity and to create jobs, a framework cao on night work was concluded in December 2015, after long negotiations between the social partners. Night work is possible abroad in e-commerce and was one of the pain points here. Honor to whom credit is due, you have done well, you have made sure that an agreement has been reached. We are honest, we had a bit of reservations, but you have done it. When a collective agreement is concluded, we naturally intend to follow up on what happens with it. I have the following questions. In the meantime, can you tell me how many collective agreements have already been concluded at company level? Are there any problems in company negotiations or is everything going smoothly? Do you already have a look at the number of jobs that have been added since the December agreement? Do you have a prognosis regarding joob growth? However, there is a problem at company level, namely that night work can only be allowed if all trade union organizations in the company agree to night work. This also means that a trade union representing only 10% of employees could block an agreement at company level. Do you not therefore think that an evaluation or adaptation of this point will be necessary in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u43	Mr Janssen, I am pleasantly surprised by your congratulations. I will cherish them for other moments. Thank you very much. You see, it's not that hard. I'm sure you can still do that. However, it is a serious question, for which I would like to thank you very much, Mr Janssen. We agreed that we would allow night work in e-commerce, not by amending the law, but by an agreement between the social partners, in particular the social partners in the trade and distribution sectors. We have managed to reach that agreement at the end of the last year, just in time. That agreement must now be converted into a KB. I have good news for you, because the relevant KB has been transferred to the Belgian Official Journal. I assume it will be published in the near future. From the moment of publication, collective agreements can therefore be concluded at company level. I can tell you that at least two large companies have already negotiated collective agreements. As soon as KB appears in the Belgian Official Journal, these agreements will be finalized. You expressed concern that this would be blocked at company level. We had that same concern last year. However, all the partners who signed the agreement last year committed themselves to giving it every opportunity at enterprise level. We will continue to follow the issue closely, but we can look at it very positively. In conclusion, I would like to add the following. Yesterday I went to The Hague. Everyone is looking at the Netherlands and Germany and we have talked to a lot of people there. I spoke to Daniel Ropers, the ceo of bol.com. Firstly, he congratulated us, as you have just congratulated us. Secondly, he said that Belgium might have reacted a little late, but that it would work to our advantage. Due to the fact that night work is now possible in Belgium, e-commerce will also get a real boost in small businesses. He was very excited about that, like you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u44	Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u45	Mr. Chairman, they're interrupting me. Mr Janssen, I think we should go resolutely for night work in e-commerce. That can create a lot of jobs. I'll follow up with you if that happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u46	Mr. Secretary, thank you. I'll give you some praise. We are indeed pleased with your statement that the royal decree in question has been finalized, even though we have had to wait another three months for it. I note that chords are already in place. As soon as the Royal Decree has been adopted, night work can be introduced. However, we must ensure that they become quality jobs, as always envisaged. We are certainly following the situation closely, because the measure must provide us with jobs and the turnover that is now being achieved abroad must be generated in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u47	Mr President, Minister, it is with great enthusiasm that I ask you in the hope that you will be as enthusiastic as I am when it comes to answering my question. The latter concerns a dossier which already occupies the special committee "Dieselgate", namely the problem of consumer protection in terms of emissions of NOx, fine particulate matter or CO2. During the hearings we had, we were questioned by the discrepancy between the results of laboratory tests carried out by the certification bodies and the field tests carried out under real-world conditions. As can be seen from an article in the newspaper De Morgen published today, the tests requested by the Dutch Ministry of the Environment at the TNO, a Brussels-based company, show that most of the diesel engines of the most used cars in Europe emit emissions three times higher than those found in the laboratory, and this applies even to the least polluting engines. As everyone knows, certification, responsibility for controls and their further development are the responsibility of the Regions. I hope these people will take the problem by arm-to-body. However, can you tell me whether, at your level, the guidelines for imposing a code of conduct on manufacturers have already been mentioned? If so, can we know the axes? Has consultation with the sector already taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I can give you a positive answer. As far as the sector is concerned, there is a consultation with FEBIAC and TRAXIO. The aim is to arrive at a code of conduct to improve the quality of consumer information and to clarify changes made at the consumer's request. I can tell you that at the moment, as you rightly point out, new software is being delivered by headquarters to dealers, but also dealers do not know what the software provided is. I hope, with your support, that we will come to a code as soon as possible, which will make it clear to both consumers and dealers what the adaptation of the software means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u49	Thank you, Minister. You can count on my support and that of my group. It is gratifying to learn that efforts have already been made to have, in consultation with the sector, the first discussions in order to reach a code of conduct. This will be part of the recommendations that we will make at the end of our special committee. We will also endeavour to carry out follow-up at the level of the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u50	Minister, this week, the European Union, including Belgium, had to position itself on whether or not to extend the Roundup authorisation. To make this choice, you had two options. You could rely on scientific studies published in a report by the WHO-dependent International Cancer Research Centre (ICRC), which analyzed glyphosate, its bindings and the various components associated with glyphosate in a herbicide such as Roundup. You could also take into account studies carried out by European universities and research centres on pesticides, herbicides and genetic engineering, published in early 2016. A study also published in 2016 in Germany on riparians of crops treated with Roundup shows that 90% of them have traces of glyphosate in their urine, and for three quarters, with a rate above the permitted threshold in running water. So you had all those scientific references, which lead to the conclusion that Roundup is carcinogenic. But you also had the opportunity, and this is the one for which you chose, to refer to studies that the European Food Safety Agency has chosen. These studies have been carried out by research centres which depend on a consortium of agrochemical companies, including Monsanto, producer of Roundup. 80% of the experts who conducted these studies refused to publish their declaration of interest. The European Agency itself says that the data provided by the producers were incomplete and incomplete. In spite of all this, you have decided to follow this opinion, according to which it is not carcinogenic, while scientific studies say the opposite. You say that you rely on scientific advice, on the precautionary principle. On what arguments did you really base yourself? And above all, what interests do you defend: the benefits of Monsanto or the health of Belgian citizens and farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u51	Mrs Gerkens, I will not follow up on the end of your questioning, which is purely insulting. I'm answering the bottom line. First of all, I would like to point out that with regard to this type of case – Mr Gilkinet, have the correction to listen to me – the decision is taken collectively by the Minister of Public Health, by the doctor, Maggie De Block, and by myself. Secondly, we only base our proposal for a decision, Mrs Gerkens, on proposals drawn up by our services and by scientific expertise. In this case, we have followed the proposal of our federal public health administration and the proposal of the Institute of Public Health. We have also, in this case, followed, as you have pointed out, the EFSA proposal. It is far from being, as you said, a kind of branch of special interest. It is an independent authority whose scientific competence is recognized. EFSA had also asked the rapporteur State, Germany, for a very detailed report on all the studies carried out over the past ten years, including that of the IARC, before drawing up a proposal. Would Belgium have been suddenly weak, and isolated at European level, on certain principles? Certainly not, since only three countries, France, the Netherlands and Italy opposed the proposal made by the Committee of European Experts. Seventeen countries expressed support, while others expressed conditions or abstained. Today, therefore, there is not "a Belgian expression contrary to the rest of the scientific world and to the rest of Europe", as you are wrongly trying, and shamefully, Mrs Gerkens, to make it believe. A line of purely rigorous decisions, based on our expertise, supported by the Minister of Health and myself, exists. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, on this issue of pesticide control, we have been particularly firm in a number of situations, including this one. Should I recall that in 2015 alone we refused to use 17 out of 65 products in Belgium, and that our efforts, particularly in the national plan to reduce pesticide use, are well known? I am at your disposal, dear lady, all these elements. They are indisputable and transparent. I would ask you to bring our debate back to controversial elements of scientific analysis that I would like to hear, but that is the only dimension in which this debate should be part of. Indeed, Mrs Gerkens, you are aware that our only motivation is the general interest and the precautionary principle, which is particularly important in the field of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u52	Minister, fortunately, a few days ago, other countries, other governments, other ministers were more courageous. Fortunately, these comments were taken into account and the studies on which EFSA based did not give any satisfaction, since the one-year extension decision was postponed and another European agency, the one responsible for the problem of chemicals, was commissioned to carry out further studies. If everything was clear, why would the one-year extension decision be postponed and why would these additional studies be requested? Even if they are only three countries, they are three courageous countries. How many times has the Belgian administration carried out additional examinations to those of the European Union? Very little! I am, of course, interested in your documents, but I will tell you that I, too, am scandalized, because the practices of agrochemistry and the way in which the studies were carried out are identical to those of cigar makers and those of asbestos before. Ministers have also said that there is no concern, no danger for the citizens, and today we are assuming the consequences of this cowardice. So, minister, get together! You have a year to do this. Prove to me that you are defending the health of citizens and farmers, not the benefits of agrochemical multinationals!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I am sure you have been aware of this for a long time: the milk sector is under enormous pressure from the disappearance of a number of important export markets and the loss of quotas. The market is completely unbalanced, which means that our farmers are barely getting out of the cost. Supply is very high and demand is falling. The farmers are eating up their reserves, and of course that cannot last. In August last year good news finally emerged, because an agreement had been reached in the Belgian chain talks, consisting of short-term measures and long-term measures. One of the short-term measures was that farmers would receive a direct surcharge of 2.7 cents per litre of milk produced. That supplement was paid from a fund that was fed by the distribution chain. The distribution chain provided a surcharge of 14 euro cents per quantity of milk sold. That measure was for a limited period. That period of the direct surcharge is now over. What do we see now? Milk has become almost 20% more expensive for consumers, but the farmer still gets a much lower price. In other words, the consumer pays more, but the farmer receives less. That, of course, was not the intention of the direct surcharge. Of course, this phenomenon had to be avoided. Minister, a good agreement was reached in the Belgian chain talks. Can you confirm that all the agreements made by the different partners have been implemented effectively? Has the farmer actually received his direct supplement? Has the distribution chain actually paid the supplement to the fund? Can you explain why the consumer pays more and the farmer gets less? Another important aspect of the agreement was a long-term measure, in particular the stabilisation mechanism. The stabilisation mechanism was intended to enter into service after the period of the direct surcharge. What's the status of that? What are its modalities? When can it enlist? March 14th is a very important date. Then there is another European Agriculture Council. What are your expectations of that? What exactly will you put on the table there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u54	Minister, I have asked you a number of times about the position of European Commissioner for Agriculture Hogan on the ongoing milk crisis and, by extension, on the overall agricultural crisis. You always answer that you are in favour of structural measures. You are also quite right to ask for the European agricultural crisis to be placed on the European agenda. The resources that Europe freed up to support the dairy sector after the farmers protest of 2015, provided some financial breathing space. However, this measure is not enough and insufficient, as Mrs Dierick said. Meanwhile, the European milk sector continues to suffer very badly. The current price does not cover the costs, let alone the farmer makes a profit. In the other agricultural sectors, too, it is literally not buttering. On Monday 15 February 2016, the European Agriculture Ministers discussed the crisis, including in the pig sector. A forthcoming meeting will be held on 14 March 2016, at which ideas for a European solution will be discussed. Mr Minister, I would like to know the following from you. What was discussed at the European Council? Are there concrete structural measures on the table that provide a way out of the overall agricultural crisis? Are we finally thinking about production restrictions, for example? How do you intend to support structural measures within the European Union, as Phil Hogan is always taking short-term measures? In this context, I refer to his recent intention to store pigmeat in the pig sector. He also fails when talking about a long-term vision. Minister, is there a long-term vision? Is there a consensus on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation in the agricultural sector is very difficult. The short-term support of the chain consultation indeed involved the creation of a fund, estimated at EUR 46 million and distributed to milk producers. That aid was intended to allow the release of 2.7 % per litre of milk produced for six months. The reference volume shall consist of the operating quota by the end of March 2015. The agreement was approved by the European Competition Authority for a period of six months. It ended in early March 2016. I would stress that this agreement between the partners in the chain talks was strictly private and came about on a completely voluntary basis. No guarantees were given either by the government or by the private authorities on the amounts collected or distributed. These amounts depended on real sales and the voluntary participation of the retail chains. They are therefore not the responsibility of the government. We had to find that the amounts paid to farmers were indeed lower than expected. I deeply regret this and will evaluate this situation in the short term with all the partners in the chain talks. As regards the implementation of long-term support mechanisms, negotiations between the partners in the chain consultation are still ongoing. At European level, at the February European Agriculture Council, I strongly advocated a temporary voluntary reduction in production, if decided by producers' organisations with European incentives. The Commission itself has stated that it is open to new and additional measures. Member States were asked to submit written and reasoned proposals. In order to achieve as strong a Belgian proposal as possible, I organised an inter-ministerial conference at the end of February. This meeting made it possible to determine the Belgian contribution. This contribution consists of regional and federal elements, and was addressed to the General Secretariat of the Council of the EU. The issue of Evolution of the markets will therefore be discussed on Monday 14 March. We will have the opportunity there to defend our position with determination. In recent days there have been many contacts between the Agriculture Ministers with a view to possibly adopting a common position at the next Council. Many of them say they are prepared to take voluntaristic measures with a view to new support for consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u56	I have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u57	Mr President, I actually need 10 minutes for my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u58	Minister, it is a pity that you cannot complete your answer. We will certainly continue to deal with this issue in committee. Minister, farmers are not asking for much in themselves. They simply ask for a fair fee for their product. The direct payment measure was a good tool. However, it is important to ensure that the price increase paid by the consumer is to the maximum benefit of farmers. Clearly that has not been the case. I'm happy because you say there's going to be an evaluation. After all, it cannot be that the consumer pays more but that the farmer ultimately gets less. I also asked a question about the state of play of the stabilisation mechanism. I have not really received an answer to that, but we can discuss this further in committee. In any case, I hope that you will continue to take this issue to heart and put it on the table of the European Agriculture Council. There is an urgent need for better matching of supply and demand. Here too, Europe must take on its responsibilities as a matter of urgency. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You do not need to convince me of your good will and your commitment to agriculture. However, it is clear from your reply that we are not getting anywhere at European level. You are talking about a possible warm clean-up. I hope you can live up to that. Is there really going to be a storage of pork, to throw it back on the market in two months, with all the consequences? Is that a long-term measure? What the hell's that gonna do? In anticipation, and in the hope that Europe will do its job, we must do what we can. Let us work together to ensure that the small entrepreneur in general, and in this particular case the farmer, can be stronger in his shoes, and that his negotiating position improves, so that he does not have to count on the chain talks and on Europe. Some neighbouring countries have already taken an initiative. We in the N-VA also have a legislative proposal on this, which can be dealt with as a matter of priority in the Committee on Business. We hope to find very broad support for this if possible, and we hope to find your support. Our agriculture is too important. So is our own food supply. Whoever opens his fridge or looks on his plate can't deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u60	Mr President, Minister, as you know, I care about the agricultural sector. He suffered a lot of unprecedented crises with regard to milk, beef, pork and cereals. The subject of my question concerns the pig sector, which has suffered particularly from the Russian embargo. In June 2015, I asked you about the signing of a memorandum to develop Belgian pork exports to China. I already stressed that this was good news for the sector. China accounts for 1.5 billion pork consumers. On Tuesday, I was pleased to read in the press that this memorandum was finally being implemented and that a first Belgian company had been authorized to export to China. Minister, how many companies could be allowed to export pork to China? What will be the export volumes? A memorandum was signed last year. Will there be others of the same type with other countries or for other products? The price of pork depends on supply and demand. The fact of being able to export is obviously a good signal. Can you give us further explanations and some figures on this good news?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the efforts to support the agricultural sector, in addition to the efforts made at European level and in the Chain concertation, which contains an important chapter on pork, export support through the conclusion of health protocols is a very important element of our action. In this context, we have doubled the AFSCA team responsible for carrying out these health negotiations, food safety and traceability of the products concerned. Following previous efforts, my visit to China last year and continued contacts with Chinese partners, we were able to translate this memorandum of understanding into reality with the export, by a second group of companies, of significant volumes of pork meat to China. Today the two largest groups in Belgium, the Belgian Pork Group and Noordvlees Van Gool, are involved. These two groups are important because they represent several slaughterhouses and, on their own, more than half of the production and slaughter of pigs in Belgium. In terms of figures – you asked –, the export outlook is 150 000 tonnes by 2018, which would multiply by more than five the exports currently possible. Other memoranda are in the process of being prepared, on the one hand, with China concerning the 5th district, i.e. offal, and, on the other hand, concerning the extension of the list authorised to export. This is also the result of a very thorough work of the AFSCA which I thank. We are also studying other countries as well as other speculations, since both beef and poultry are involved. Finally, as you know, as a result of Schmallenberg's disease, we had to interrupt contacts with China regarding bovine semen and especially white-blue semen. Here too, we are making a number of efforts. Supporting exports alongside a whole range of other political actions is part of what needs to be done in a country like ours that is also outward-looking, particularly with regard to its agricultural production and processed products.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u62	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. It is clear that a label has sometimes been placed on the AFSCA vis-à-vis the agricultural sector. I welcome the implementation of these memoranda and the collaboration of the AFSCA so that this dossier can be completed. I also welcome the figures, i.e. tonnage by 2018. It's not nothing! Supply and demand could lead to higher prices. You are telling me that other companies could also contribute to these exports for other products. It's only good news!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement provides for a thorough internal reform of the federal government, which we call a modern word redesign. As you know, my group strongly supports reform and, of course, we fully support the objectives agreed by the government. The aim is not only to streamline services for citizens and entrepreneurs, but also for civil servants themselves. In addition, significant efficiency gains are also expected. In the context of the tax shift, this ambition was even increased. By 2020, we even expect EUR 750 million of revenue per year. This year we have already entered EUR 100 million in the budget for this dossier. That ambition is essential to bring down the government's seizure. This ambition is therefore necessary in order to be able to return government money to people in the form of tax cuts. The money must come from somewhere and the less money goes to the government, the more money we can give back to the citizens. Last year, the government agreed on six routes, ranging from a common purchasing service or patrimony management to health care efficiency under the authority of Minister De Block. We also heard that you were able to present a dossier at the Council of Ministers on Friday and to make progress on the joint federal social secretariat. That's very good. You yourself have always stressed that the dossier is a plan of the entire government and that various trade ministers will therefore also be able to draw up a course within their competence. Minister, you can rest assured that we will also address your fellow Members on the progress they are making. Minister, you are the Minister of Civil Service and, in that capacity, you are responsible for the reorganisation. This is how you draw the horizontal integration of the FODs yourself. That may be difficult to put, but the bottom line is that you want to reduce the number of ministries. By the way, Minister De Block does that in social security. At the committee meeting, you said that you would facilitate redesign yourself by ensuring that your notes are presented as soon as possible, in such a way that you can also make a proper calculation. Last week you said it was a matter of days before significant progress could be made on certain routes. What news can you give us about that? What's in the pipeline? Can you confirm to Parliament that the financial objectives are also on track?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gabriels, I would like to thank you for your support for the objectives of bringing down the public debt. You have outlined the situation well, in the sense that the whole government is responsible for a total of six projects, two of which are specifically within my competence. In reply to your questions, I will confine myself to the two elements for which I am responsible. As far as joint procurement is concerned, I was presented this week with a first report with concrete objectives and a concrete implementation of what needs to be done. This is now being adjusted and will be submitted to the steering committee for the Easter holiday. The objective of bringing together the support services, consisting of four federal administrations into one public service, will be maintained as of 1 January 2017. The project was presented to the Conference of Presidents this week. Tomorrow morning the text will be submitted to me and it will be submitted to the steering committee for further discussion and approval in the weeks before Easter. Mrs Gabriels, once again, this is indeed a government-wide project which has supported the budgetary objectives set. It has chosen to allocate specific amounts in the establishment of the budgets. This will undoubtedly be part of the budgetary negotiations that will take place in the next few weeks. Since it is a government-wide project, all ministers and all departments will have to assume their responsibilities. As you said, Mrs Gabriels, we have indeed achieved a major breakthrough in the federal government's wage administration. All services will have to join, if not, joint objectives cannot be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u65	Minister, it is good that there is indeed movement in this dossier. For us, of course, it is important that the objectives are met. It will therefore be necessary to monitor the progress made, and you, as the Minister of Civil Service, have an important responsibility in this regard. The ambition to make structural savings of EUR 750 million on an annual basis through redesign is very high, which we recognise, but we believe to be feasible and, above all, strictly necessary. Our administration consists of good and hardworking people and they also expect a modern and efficient employer to be able to continue to perform their job motivated at the service of our residents. The first steps have been taken, as you indicated yourself. Mr. Secretary, keep pulling that reform cart. In any case, you will find an ally in our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u66	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u67	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2016, I propose the appointment of working members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, No. 1698/1, to be postponed. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2016, I propose that you postpone the appointment of effective members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, No. 1698/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u68	V Earrings submitted by: Proposals submitted by: - 463: Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu - 422: Karin Jiroflée, Meryame Kitir. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u70	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u71	Mr President, I will be very brief. I must point out the quality of the work in committee. There is sometimes a complaint about the usefulness of hearings, as invited persons would not be listened to. The proposed legislation before us provides evidence to the contrary. Indeed, thanks to the hearings, we have been able to change the text in the light of the practice and the comments made to us by the various actors in the justice system. The crime of harassment, which had hitherto been based on a complaint, now became a simple crime, which could be prosecuted by both the victim and his entourage, and even by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This should normally alleviate the burden that may be placed on a person who is subject to harassment. I would therefore like to point out that the hearings are indeed useful. In addition, I stress the constructive nature of the opposition in this area, since the texts were able to be voted on positively, accompanied by an amendment which received the general agreement of the Commissioners present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that bullying is a topical issue in our society and is increasingly a problem. In children at school, in people at work, in personal relationships, we all know the sometimes poignant stories in the media. We already have instruments for punishing bullying in working conditions. Preventive projects are introduced in schools. More and more management and teachers' teams are using a number of measures to prevent and intervene on bullying. However, the criminalisation of bullying in general, regardless of the work situation, is not always easy. For us, the legislation in this area is not exactly straightforward. Hence our proposal to clarify this matter. Apparently, we're not the only ones. On the basis of Mrs Van Cauter's proposal and ours, we have held a number of hearings in the Committee on Justice. Several experts have come to explain their views. A recurring criticism of the current legislation, which we share as well, is that bullying or blaming, as it continues to be called, is a complaint crime. Anyone who is too afraid to complain or who has become ill from bullying and therefore does not have the energy to complain remains in the cold. The next of kin also stays in the cold in the worst case, i.e. in the event of death due to bullying; we certainly all know an example of this. That is what we have addressed in the proposals. Bullying or beling is no longer merely a complaint crime. In future, bullying will also be punishable, without the victims having to lodge a formal complaint if the bullying certificates are clearly present. That is a great step forward for us. We shall therefore be voting for the amended proposal with conviction. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Van Cauter, who is absent, for the cooperation and constructive attitude. We've done a very good job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter has been prevented by a committee meeting that is currently taking place. She cannot leave there and wishes to apologize. My group would like to congratulate Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Mrs Van Cauter on the legislative proposal. After all, it is a very important step forward. It is important to underline this here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u74	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (463/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (463/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending Article 442a of the Criminal Code." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending Article 442bis of the Criminal Code". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u78	Mr President, I refer to the written report which is very well done on this matter, which is also very well carried out by the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group would like to make it clear very briefly that we fully support this draft law for various reasons. We believe that the planned centralisation and integration of knowledge, competences and staff, which are still somewhat fragmented today, will lead to cost savings. That is something we must all strive for. Synergies will be found in the sharing and management of such data and the use of ICT infrastructure and there will be savings in management structures, buildings, facility management, etc. A second reason, certainly equally important, is that this should lead to better and more efficient services for citizens. Bringing the services together will increase transparency and ensure a single point of contact. This is a goal that we also pursue in other areas of pension activity, think of the use of the pension engine on the web site. This too should lead to greater transparency. Finally, this exercise also fits in well with the redesign of public services in general, with the dual objective of efficiency gains and better service provision. We have a few points of interest in the implementation of this bill. We ask for attention to be paid to the involvement of all stakeholders through the specific management committees within the federal pension service, especially the role that the Communities will have in this. We also call for attention to be paid to the evaluation of the specific position of HR Rail that retains certain payout tasks. We also call for a careful monitoring of funding through the imposition of certain objectives and accountability on the management costs of this new body. We trust that you, as Minister, will watch over these issues in implementation. We are fully convinced that this reform is a serious step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an ambitious project that is presented to us today. The merger of workers' pension organizations and the public sector focuses on optimizing federal and organizational pension structures. This optimisation can be summed up, ladies and gentlemen, in two words: readability and efficiency. As far as readability is concerned, each citizen is entitled to obtain the information he or she asks about his or her pension. The citizen's request is confirmed by the figures relating to the visit to mypension.be. Today, almost 500,000 consultations are already taking place. As we all know, the citizen wants to better understand his situation, especially if he wishes to adapt it to his professional background. With the present system, however, it must be noted that the Belgian citizen is confronted with a particularly technical subject, which is difficult to understand. In view of the career changes we are currently experiencing, it is a bit of a fighter's career to be able to learn about the evolution of his pension rights. The merger of the various pension services, namely the National Pension Board (ONP), the Public Sector Pension Service (PSPS), as a first step, and the HR Rail and ORPSS, as a second step, will allow every citizen to have only one contact person who will be able to respond optimally to all of his or her queries. We are therefore setting ourselves here in a very good example of administrative simplification, which we are looking forward to, Mr Minister. With regard to efficiency, as the Minister pointed out in his presentation, synergies already existed between the various agencies. By following an existing will within the organisations concerned, the government – which is important to say – wanted to go further by merging them. There is no doubt that this consolidation of administrative services will lead to significant economies of scale. But beyond that, it is also a matter of bringing together all the missions of the various organizations, administrative management and human skills. It seems to me very important to stress here that this merger will take place without collateral damage. Indeed, and the Minister has certified it, no loss of employment will be regretted and the social rights of the staff will be maintained in their entirety. Here again, we demonstrate that the government is listening to social consultation. Thank you, Minister, for what you did. This desired efficiency has only one objective: to provide better service to the citizen and to best meet his needs and expectations for a public service. This is an ambitious project, ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you. This is an important challenge that the government, under the leadership of the Minister of Pensions, has been able to meet once again. It is therefore with a frank and positive vote that the MR Group will welcome the forthcoming arrival of the Federal Pension Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u81	Mr President, I shall be a little bit shorter than my colleague, but I would nevertheless like to express my group's support for this project, which is not a new idea. It has been prepared with the administrations concerned to improve the accessibility of the service and information for citizens, especially those with an increasing number of citizens who have a mixed career. Once it is not customary, this project was drawn up in consultation and in agreement with the social partners; it should be stressed. However, I have expressed my concern about the impact of these economies of scale, which the Minister described as "significant". I was reassured by the minister about the personnel and reinvestment of these savings in services. We will, of course, pay attention to this aspect as well as to maintaining the specialisation of agents in order to guarantee the quality of services in a particularly complex field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u82	Minister, it is not the past or future part of pension reform that poses the most problems for us. This is an administrative reorganization, which can be positive in terms of economies of scale - no need to spend a euro when it is not necessary - and which can respond to an increasingly glaring reality in today's society: careers are becoming less and less flat. Often, at the time of retirement, rights have been accumulated in different sectors, whether in terms of social security for self-employed persons, employees or in the civil service. Therefore, the consolidation of different services within one and the same administration is rather a good practice, a guarantee of greater efficiency, under certain conditions. Unlike the other aspects of the reform, it has been organised in a positive dialogue with the social partners, historically associated with the management of our pension system, and the discussions have taken place in a fairly broad consensus. It will be important to ensure in the future that the institution does not become so huge that it is no longer manageable. I believe that the scale effects have limits, beyond which we are no longer effective, that the necessary expertise will be maintained in the future body, particularly in relation to extinction frameworks. I am thinking of social security, the part organised and managed by OSSOM, the social security of Outremer, the association of people who have created rights through professional activity abroad. The management of past reserves and the maintenance of management bodies corresponding to the various pension sectors also seem to me to be good practice. In this regard, we discussed in committee the delegation granted by section 31 of the Act to the government, which I considered too broad, as did the Council of State. You explained to me that the explanatory memorandum and the commentary to the articles responded to the remark of the Council of State. I then replied – and I maintain this point of view – that it is in the body of the law that it is appropriate to restrict the possibility for your government or a future executive to change the way in which this service would be organized without regard to history and what prevailed over the constitution of this merged body. That is, moreover, what justifies our abstention from this reform, which we do not dispute with the principle. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you briefly – because we could talk about hours – how critical we are of the measures that have been taken in terms of pension reform. I hear the enthusiasm of some colleagues in the majority about this "extraordinary" reform that is being implemented. However, it is little in comparison with the rights that you have taken away from current workers with regard to future pensions. I am thinking in particular of the linear increase in the career without having taken into account, at this stage, the heaviest occupations and the acceleration of the abolition of similar periods, which had already been undertaken by the previous government. The impact on women's pensions will be very high. I am also thinking of what you are announcing in terms of the development of the minimum pension, but we will certainly discuss it again in committee. We are concerned about the effects of this measure which you are presenting to us in a very positive way. We expect the government to make corrections to this measure, particularly with regard to the adjustment of the end-of-career to the capacity of workers. With the measures taken by this Government and the previous one, the number of persons with disabilities has increased. The latter were previously separated either from the pre-pension system or from the early pension system. It's no longer possible. Yet these people are not able to work, so they turn to another regime. Nothing has been resolved in this way, minister. We simply changed funds within the social security system. We believe that adjustments to the end of the career are necessary. We defend the system of the Tandem Plan, which has proved its worth in the non-profit sector. This system allows workers over the age of 50 or 55, depending on the length of work, to reduce their working time and to be replaced by young workers, to be able to remain active longer but at a pace that corresponds to their physical or psychological abilities. At the same time, it allows young workers to make their first professional experience and to benefit from the tutoring of these elders. Such modern, forward-looking, innovative solutions are not found in the head of your government, who adapts the rights to the means he agrees to achieve. I would remind you that the experts' report on the future of our pension system, to which you often refer, explicitly calls for the development of solid and structural alternative financing of the pension system. That is where we are waiting for you, Minister of Pensions, to create a fair system that allows everyone to live in dignity, including after his or her professional career. The draft before us today will not prevent it, but further reforms are needed in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u83	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill is, on the whole, positive. I said it in committee. In practice, it will allow administrative simplification in favour of the citizen, improvement of certain services and the creation of synergies through pooling of resources. However, I regret it. You have decided not to include the self-employed in this project. However, the number of mixed careers is increasing. The number of pensioners or future pensioners involved in mixed careers is also increasing, which is logical. It would have been good to have a single point of contact in the future, independent understood. I hope that this item is still on the agenda. Today, the future pensioner who has had a full or partial career as an independent person will have to continue to apply, for the part of his career as an independent, to the municipal administration of his home or to the INASTI. The opportunity to change that now arose, which is why I regret it. I hope that the bill under consideration is a first step and that a second step will follow for the independents. One point in the bill, which I had already mentioned in committee, remains problematic. I will allow myself to do this again here, since an additional element complements the work that took place in committee. This concerns the public undertaking HR Rail. While you have anticipated that the workers of the SdPSP and ORPSS would be transferred with their acquired rights maintained, as part of HR Rail, you have not planned the same thing at all. You have planned to transfer the pension missions, but on the contrary, you have not transferred the relevant staff members who currently work with HR Rail. In committee, you told me that it was because we had signed a convention protocol with the unions. This is, of course, the point I wanted to highlight in our work in plenary. Mr Minister, you have presented the matter to me in committee as a protocol signed with the unions, but it is obviously not about that. I have this protocol in front of my eyes. It is signed by the appropriate ministers, by the Director General of HR Rail, by the Deputy Head of the PPSS and by the President of the PNC. There is clearly no transfer of these workers. This is problematic for three reasons. First, for equality. We recognize that it is difficult to justify that only HR Rail workers receive different treatment in this project from those of the PSSO and ORPSS workers who are all transferred with the maintenance of their acquired rights. You're telling me no, but yes, they are. The second reason why I have a problem with this is respect for European law. Council Directive 2001/23 of 12 March 2001 is very clear in this respect, since on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings, establishments or parts of undertakings or establishments, Article 1 states that this applies to public and private undertakings. We are here as part of a public enterprise and not as part of an administration. Therefore, HR Rail clearly falls within the scope of this Directive. This therefore directly affects all the staff involved in the "Pensions" missions, which, let us recall, has a special expertise which is long-term and specifically assigned to the management of HR Rail pensions and which has carried out these technical tasks for several years. If necessary, an additional argument could be added in relation to the interpretation of this directive, since the activities before and after the transfer of a business will be identical. Customers, in this case HR Rail pensioners, will also be transferred. All the arguments I have just taken up are therefore very much within the scope and consideration of the directive. The third reason is legal insecurity. Indeed, untransferred contractors from HR Rail could argue what is known as the direct vertical effect of the directive to claim their automatic transfer. Why not have dealt with a problem that could be brought before the courts tomorrow? It is for these reasons that I have tabled an amendment aimed at fully respecting the European directive. You will probably tell me that the workers will remain employed at HR Rail – I have already mentioned the protocol that is not signed by the unions – and that we will try to reuse them, otherwise they will no longer be occupied. In other words, HR Rail's missions will be amputated from the entire pension management section. I am therefore afraid that the people who work there and who have not been transferred, because of the failure to comply with European law and directive, will be blurred tomorrow. In conclusion, I would say that the majority should be sensitive to the arguments I have pointed out on equal treatment, respect for European law and legal certainty. Having said that, I cannot help but have a political analysis of this decision not to transfer the personnel involved in the management of HR Rail's pension files to the new pension structure. In my opinion, the will is, in the end, to simply remove HR Rail. Indeed, with this particular and specific point of your bill, you are laying the first milestone of a project announced by the N-VA in the newspaper De Morgen on February 23, 2016. We will, however, vote on this bill, hoping that with the legal uncertainty and non-compliance with the European directive, you will not take the risk of facing serious problems tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u84	Minister, how many staff will remain after the merger of pension services in 2019? I asked you this at the committee meeting during the debate on the merger of pension services for the private sector, the RVP, and public services, the PDOS. I'm still waiting for your answer. That worries me. I find it worrying that the draft law again talks about scale effects, in a context of extremely complex legislation, in which 100 000 pension files are added every year, and pension services that are subject to substantial savings. The services themselves have a 20% reduction in staff, or a decrease of more than 450 staff, by 2019. Moreover, in the coming years many staff members of the pension services themselves will also retire. There is therefore an urgent need to invest in the training of young people so that they can learn to control pension legislation. Such draconian savings can only be at the expense of providing services to citizens. You are trying to convince us that this will not be the case and that what is before us today has nothing to do with the scale effects on staff, but you did not put forward any elements in the committee. Citizens are now generally satisfied with pension services and give them 8/10, but the fear of the trade unions is that the merger and substantial savings will cause more and more people to be disappointed. People will have to ask with a website and a central call centre, but anyone who has a mixed career and has problems with his pension file or has questions will be less and less helped by an expert who knows his way through complex pension legislation. As said in committee, Minister, we will vote against the reform. You said at the committee meeting that there is no single pension at all. I would prefer to hear Mr Van Quickenborne, who, when he was a minister, clearly said that they were seeking a unitary pension. Your strategic plan is also clearly in the direction of a unitary pension. Then, of course, the question arises as to what direction this unitary pension is going in: towards civil servants' pensions or towards pensions in the private sector. Today we see clearly that you, with your ministry, are taking measures to reduce civil servants' pensions towards private sector pensions. We cannot, of course, agree with that. That is why, Minister, the entire PVDA Group will vote against your law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u85	Mr President, I shall first respond to Mr Spooren's remark. Mr Spooren, with regard to the system of public sector pensions, the A Committee also retains its powers in the social dialogue for the Communities and the Regions. I thank Mrs de Coster-Bauchau for clarifying the benefits of this merger and Mr Daerden for supporting the project. I can confirm to him again today that economies of scale will be reoriented towards improving service and, in particular, towards the development of the pension engine. We are going to achieve an economy very quickly, even if only through the move of the SdPSP which will integrate the Tour du Midi, with free spaces, and which will therefore no longer have to pay rent in the building where it is currently located. As far as Mr Gilkinet's question on Article 31 is concerned, I would like to make it very clear that any new tasks which will be deliberate in the Council of Ministers will always have to have a direct or indirect relationship with pensions. This delegation deals only with administrative and functional aspects relating to the granting or management of pensions and does not concern in any way the content of pension schemes or, even less, individual pension rights which are obviously not covered by the article in question. Secondly, Mr Gilkinet spoke on a general problem which is the minimum pension, which is of course not the subject of this text. However, this allows me to point out once again that repeating something totally wrong several times does not make it a truth. When he claims that the reform of the minimum pension and the allocation of the welfare envelope penalize women, as he commonly maintains, I reply that it is a pure and simple invention that runs counter to all the independent and objective comments in this area. These organizations are not at all led by people who are suspected of liberalism. These include the Federal Office of the Plan, the Committee for Studies on Aging and the National Bank. These bodies unanimously recognize that the pension reforms that we are undertaking will increase the average amount of pension, reduce the risk of poverty and be more favourable to the status of women in this area. They all say that. I don't know why some people make up the opposite. It doesn't make much sense in relation to the reality of things. With regard to Mrs Fonck's comment on the self-employed, I would first like to remind her that the payment of the pensions of the self-employed is already allocated to the ONP and will therefore still be assigned to the Federal Pension Service. I am telling you that the pensions of the self-employed are already paid by the ONP, and will therefore be paid by the Federal Pension Service. INASTI has a particular structure. INASTI is not a pension body, but a general social security body for the self-employed. Therefore, we could not merge the INASTI health care with the pension organization. It seemed rather strange and incoherent to me. This is a whole at the level of the social security of the self-employed, and it remains like that. However, the permanences of the Federal Pension Service and INASTI are common and will be organised together in the municipalities and at the pension points. Citizens will be able to travel to a single location for information on their pensions. They will not have to go to two different structures when they have a mixed pension of self-employed and wage earner or self-employed and civil servant. As far as HR Rail is concerned, I would like to point out that the protocol has been signed by the relevant authorities on the basis of trade union negotiations. HR Rail's director signed the protocol as the holder of a union bargaining agreement. The transfer of pension management from HR Rail does not fall within the scope of the European Directive. This is a transfer of administrative functions between public administrative authorities and is not covered by the Directive. In addition, CTC 32 is not applicable to HR Rail, neither for statutory nor for non-statutory staff. It should also be clarified that the possibility of making occupied HR Rail staff members available to the SdPSP, on the basis of HR Rail's billing of the related charges, was not retained in the negotiation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the authorities concerned, given the opposition expressed by the staff representatives in this respect. I am respectful of the interests of staff and of social consultation, which does not seem to be your case, Mrs Fonck. It should be noted that HR Rail is the sole legal employer of the statutory and non-statutory staff of the Belgian Railways, whether or not they are made available to Infrabel or SNCB. Members of HR Rail who are currently engaged in the management of pensions, other than their payment, i.e. those who may no longer have any work related to the management of pensions - taken over by the Federal Pension Service - may therefore, if necessary, be assigned, as appropriate, to other tasks of HR Rail, Infrabel or SNCB, in accordance with the regulations of the Belgian Railways in this respect. As a result, their situation is quite different from that of PSDSS and SPSO staff. With regard to Mr. Hedebouw's remark, everyone is free to let his imagination drift as he sees fit. But there is no indication in this bill of the willingness to move towards a single pension system. Although that is true, the government statement and my policy note indicate that we are working towards greater harmonization of regimes. I always said it! There is nothing new in this regard. I believe that all experts in this area agree on this. I can reassure you on one point: not everyone will benefit from a public sector pension today!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u86	Mr President, I promise the Minister that he will come back to committee with specific questions. I ask him to prepare concrete examples of people with ten, twenty, thirty years of career and to be aware that, in the reality of the labour market today - I can regret it - most often, workers with incomplete careers are workers. Also, automatically, when you decide to reserve pension adjustments for people with full careers, you will affect part of the public who are the workers. You say that "repeating a lie does not make a truth"; I send back this adage and invite you to present us with a situation regarding the distribution of the envelope among the various right-holders. I have read carefully all the documents of the NBB, the Plan Bureau and the Study Committee on Ageing. They address the issue of sustainability, the ability to pay our pension systems in the future, and not the distribution by deciles of the amount of pension allocated. I maintain that with the decisions of the previous government and of the latter on limiting access to time credit and the elimination of similar periods, you are very hard hit by a part of the public, especially women, who will lose pension rights in the future. We have denounced it since two legislatures and will continue to do so and propose alternatives. I ask you to provide an envelope that meets the needs by increasing it and not by reducing the rights of pensioners and future pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u87	Minister, I know that it is the ONP that pays the pensions of the self-employed. That, of course, was not the meaning of my speech; I think you understood that, even if you answered next to the question. It could have been very well decided that everything concerning pensions should have been brought together for all pensioners and future pensioners, regardless of their status. The best evidence is that, for HR Rail, you decided to do it. A cross-sectional pension agency could have been set up. I know that people can take information at the same point of contact and this is important. I'm going to the staff. In committee, I was told that there was a protocol with the unions. But the latter are not signed. It's factual, I have it in front of me, you gave it to me. To say that a protocol signed by the bosses and the ministers is a protocol signed by the unions is something else. I would like to comment on the European directive. I heard what you were saying and I can't share it. HR Rail is not a public administration; it is a public undertaking. On the other hand, you say that the European directive does not apply because the 32bis collective agreement does not apply in the case of HR Rail. Obviously, since this Convention does not apply to public undertakings. On the other hand, the European Directive clearly concerns private and public enterprises. What are you doing in the back? You, the State, impose, through the 32bis collective agreement, on private companies to apply the European directive, and you do not comply with the same European directive as a State when it comes to a public undertaking, which is particularly challenging. It is always easier to impose things on the private sector and not to apply yourself, as a State, this famous European Directive 2001/23, which, however, is very clear. It applies to public and private enterprises. The future will tell us if you have not committed a major legal error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1651/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1651/4) The draft law contains 195 articles. The bill has 195 articles. Mrs Fonck, it seems to me that you have announced an amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u90	Yes, you didn't get it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u91	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u92	Mr President, I propose to send it to you electronically. It'll be easier for the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u93	Yeah, but now I need a paper version.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u94	Yet, Mr. President, I am assured that it has been tabled. It is even on the House site.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u95	So it's in order, Mrs. Fonck. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u96	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u97	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that the debate and the vote on this draft be postponed. After all, Mr Van der Maelen, supported by Mr De Vriendt, has put forward an important document which I, after consulting the cabinet of the Minister responsible, also value as very important. Hence the question of postponement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u100	This will be done, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u102	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u103	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be a surprise: my group will vote against this agreement and I will explain the reasons for it. This intervention is in line with those of last week, carried by my group leader during the discussions on the TTIP resolutions, but also in line with my own interventions on texts concerning, inter alia, the agreement with Panama or Peru and Colombia. Social, environmental and human rights clauses must be at the heart of the agreements that Belgium and the European Union conclude with other countries. This is also the case for this type of investment protection agreements known as "BLEU agreements". In the future, such agreements will be negotiated at European level. It is essential that the European model for such agreements be very clear on social and environmental clauses. These must be binding, in particular through the inclusion of safeguard clauses and effective control mechanisms. We have been calling for a revision of the model of these agreements both at European and Belgian level for years, as demonstrated by the many interventions made by my colleagues Christiane Vienne and Marie Arena in the House and Senate during the previous parliamentary term. Unfortunately, this revision has not yet taken place, when the current Belgian and Luxembourg governments have recently committed themselves to taking the necessary steps to ratify these agreements without even renegotiating the model which has failed and which has been widely denounced by civil society, both here and in the countries concerned. As it stands, in a global way, these agreements give private investors the power to reduce public measures of general interest. The States that sign them voluntarily abandon their sovereignty to the private sector, and we strongly deplore it. Their application depends on a closed club of twenty to thirty commercial arbitrators and raises serious questions of transparency and conflicts of interest, the sentences of which are without appeal. Belgium has defended in the Council of the European Union the protection of the right of States to regulate in future European agreements of the same type, but this is not guaranteed in the current Belgian agreements. The ABI (Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement) model submitted to us today contains purely decorative social and environmental clauses, but we cannot be fooled. Yes, we must support our export companies without any ambiguity, as illustrated by the actions of our Regions and the economic missions. However, this support cannot be expressed in any way, especially on the backs of social and environmental norms and the ability of our countries to legislate and regulate. While I welcome the Belgian Government's willingness to revise the model of the BLEU agreement, I can only conceive that, at the same time, it will continue to negotiate imperfect agreements, instead of waiting for the adoption of the new model, which I hope will take more account of social, environmental and human aspects. However, that is what we are being asked to do today by ratifying this treaty as it stands. Belgium could change its position on this issue without being a pioneer and without taking unnecessary risk for our investors. Many countries have already suffered and understood the risks. These are concrete, as I was able to demonstrate in one of my oral questions to the Minister of Finance. Indeed, the action taken by the Chinese insurer Ping An in protest of the dismantling of Fortis led to a decision in favour of the Belgian State, but nevertheless cost Belgian taxpayers some EUR 3.5 million in fees and legal fees. The proceedings before a World Bank arbitral tribunal were based on a Belgian-Chinese investment protection treaty. Let us now turn to the text itself. Contrary to the statement of reasons, which briefly refers to the presence of social and environmental clauses, these are almost non-existent, only symbolic and anecdotal – even more so than in the similar agreement with Panama. Yet there would be something to say. Human and trade union rights are regularly violated in Oman. Ratifying these agreements without requiring the observance of international standards in these matters amounts, in a way, to ignoring the possibility for some Belgian investors to exploit workers or even social and tax dumping. According to 2010 estimates, some 826,000 migrant workers are employed in Oman, more than a third of them in the construction sector. They usually work and live in excruciating conditions because their employers ignore their fundamental rights, a situation facilitated by insufficient government inspections. The formalities for organising a legal strike and registering a trade union are extremely cumbersome. If the minister or my colleagues in the majority dare to say the opposite, it is because they have not read Article 4 on the environment, and especially Article 5 on labour. I quote: "(...) recognizing that each Contracting Party has the right to set its own labour protection standards and to adopt or amend ad hoc laws accordingly." Nowhere is there any question of controls, sanctions or safeguards. This article on labour is even shorter than that contained in the agreement with Panama. Indeed, the paragraph reaffirming the obligations of the parties as members of the ILO had been deleted while recalling, inter alia, the commitments with regard to fundamental labour rights, namely the fight against the worst forms of child labour, forced labour, discrimination and freedom of association. The exchange of views in committee with the Minister has shown that the Omani authorities simply refuse to comply with international standards such as those defined by the ILO. It is for this reason that they are not found in this agreement. This exchange has also shown that we have, in a way, given in to their blackmail. But how can this be done when it comes to fundamental elements such as labour law or ILO standards? How can we allow ourselves to be imposed a vision of the world that is so opposed to our most fundamental values? At the environmental level, the text is somewhat more concrete in that it provides that, at the request of one of the Contracting Parties, the other Party will agree to the meeting of experts for the purpose of consultation. It is clear that simple consultations are certainly not sufficient in this regard. On the contrary, this agreement endangers the ability of States to regulate. In the BLEU model and in this text, the guarantee of the right of States to take legitimate measures of general interest is very weak, as there is no guarantee of the right to regulate in environmental and social matters. While we are of course thinking about the social and environmental norms of this treaty, we have also read articles 12 and 13 on international arbitration. Indeed, arbitration clauses similar to those massively rejected by European citizens in the TTIP negotiations can be found there. The same mechanism is in the treaty before us today, a mechanism that allows investors to attack states. This is in complete contradiction with the explanatory memorandum, which proudly indicates that the Sultanate of Oman is a stable and prosperous country. In an almost romantic way, we are even told that this sultanate has entered harmoniously into the 21st century. How long, then, will private arbitration continue to be preferred over the courts of the Contracting States? On the Belgian-Belgian level, we also wonder about the gain made by such an agreement to our companies, except, as often, for the port of Antwerp, because in order not to change, we are talking about it on page 6 and that is the only example given in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u104	Mrs Grovonius, with regard to the comments made on social and ecological clauses, a new model of text is being drafted with regard to the relations between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This text will be much more precise regarding human rights and social and ecological aspects. It will certainly be possible to renegotiate the agreement that is presented when this Belgian-Luxembourg text is finalised. Nevertheless, for the government, it is important to be able to move forward with the agreement that is being presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u105	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1647/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1647/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u108	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u109	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u110	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1588/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1588/3) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation adapting the provisions for the award of titles and degrees in the tax codes and the legal provisions relating to customs and excise duties and laying down various other provisions." The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law adapting the provisions conferring titles and grades in the tax codes and the legal provisions relating to customs and excise duties and laying down various other provisions". The draft law contains 178 articles. The bill has 178 sections. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u111	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u112	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1623/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1623/1) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u116	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (1655/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (1655/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u117	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u118	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2016, I also propose the draft law (Mrs Franky Demon and Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the Criminal Code to criminalise entry into a port area, No. 1706/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u119	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2016, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Franky Demon and Raf Terwingen) amending the Penal Code to criminalize intrusion into a port area, No. 1706/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u120	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u121	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on March 2, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 2 March 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 106/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Isabelle Poncelet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Daphné Dumery and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton and Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 106/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Daphné Dumery and Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u122	Mr President, I wish to reiterate here that this motion was tabled following the announcement by the Minister of Mobility last spring of the suspension of the Thalys Wallon. As part of the SNCB plan, it was even announced that the future of the service by Thalys and its Walloon dorsal would be given special attention. But it would seem that no. That's disturbing. That is why we are tabling this motion. We hope that it will be strongly supported by the assembly. This motion calls on the federal government to restore the Thalys link on the Walloon dorsal as soon as possible, to provide for the budgetary means necessary for the budget item entitled "Contribution for inland passenger transport provided by high-speed trains" as soon as possible. We also ask the government to consult the Walloon government in advance on federal decisions regarding strategic railway lines in Wallonia. Finally, we call for an early defence in the next SNCB management contract – the next one, not the next one, as the Minister announced – that the service obligation be maintained in collaboration with rail carriers. I appeal to colleagues to ensure that this motion is truly supported by the entire assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Poncelet, allow me to speak on this point, since I was present in committee when the inquiry was developed. I have been attentive to the minister's precise and comprehensive response. She recalled that today, discussions are taking place on a number of more structural, efficient and customer-oriented avenues. These various railway offers will be examined and defined in the next management contract, as planned. Moreover, among all the tracks, the re-activation of a high-speed train on the Walloon dorsal will be examined, obviously taking into account the transformation of Thalys international into a subsidiary and the low availability of Thalys trains due to their maintenance. As a result, it may be a high-speed train, but more necessarily a Thalys. All leads are examined, be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u124	Mr President, I am not at all convinced by the arguments just developed. I will add something that our colleague from the CDH mentioned. On this particular day, giving a gift to Benoît Lutgen would still be welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u125	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u126	Yes 79 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u127	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 2 March 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 2 March 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 104/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 104/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u128	Mr. Chairman, I will briefly recall my motion. She certainly wasn't polemic. It reflected some concerns and focused mainly on four points. The first was the privatization of reception. For several months, private childcare companies have responded favourably to the published offer to create additional reception spaces. In this inquiry, I was concerned about the quality of reception, supervision, controls and inspections within these centres. We are concerned about the recent example of the centre of Couvin. That is why I have asked to draw up a report by 1 April on the reception in these private centres in order to be able to debate them calmly in the committee and to obtain appeasements. The second point concerned tensions within the Fedasil centres. These are increasingly strong and numerous. This is due to a number of factors, such as the high concentration of communities within the centres, the population of these centres, and the longer processing time. Fedasil's staff are reporting increasing difficulties and there are a large number of burn-outs in staff. I therefore asked the Secretary of State to take the measures of support to the teams who are doing remarkable work to provide an optimal reception. My third point, also in connection with tensions, concerns reception conditions. In fact, army tents were set up in Fedasil centres in September. It had to be provisional. To date, however, they are still there. Places of life and sanitary facilities have not yet increased. This, of course, creates tensions. That's why I was asking for an end to the use of these tents. Finally, the fourth point concerns "post-reception". Indeed, the influx of asylum seekers has an impact on the exits of those who, having obtained the precious sesame, become refugees. They must quickly leave the centre and find housing and a job. The Regions have taken on their responsibilities by setting up an integration path. The concern is that these people must first register and reside in the Region. However, asylum seekers are often destitute and do not know who to turn to. Previously, Fedasil's services helped them. Today, they don't have time to take care of it anymore. That is why my motion asked the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to this problem. You see, therefore, that my inquiry did not involve any controversy, but merely expressed the wish to offer a dignified and humane welcome. Let everyone think about it when it comes to voting!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u129	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u130	Yes 80 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (463/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (463/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (1651/6) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 28. (1651/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 23 Yes No. [[114]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 125 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1651/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1651/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(]] Non [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 91 Yes No. 48 Non Abstentions 1 Abstentions Totaal [[140]] Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1647/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1647/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr De Roover has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstentions Totaal 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1588/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1588/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1623/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1623/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, we await the outcome of the vote on naturalisations. I shall therefore suspend the sitting. Please remain seated and we will be able to proceed with the votes in a moment. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u138	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u139	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (1655/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (1655/2) Number of votes 129 Number of voters Valid votes 129 Votes valables Perfect majority 65 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u141	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u143	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u144	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 135 Yes No. 3 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u145	Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u146	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 9) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u147	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 9) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 139 Yes No. 0 Non Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-10-54-plenair-ip101x.u149	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 14 March 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meetings of the week of March 14, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 17 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
