ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u1	Mr Minister, my first question is a follow-up to a written question in which I looked at the stalemate in the Order of Architects. You said that there is no stalemate, but that there are sometimes discussions within the two language wings of the order, especially on the reform of order. You reported an incident, a recent disagreement about the mandatory indication of the registration number. All this seems to be echoes of the past, because in the past there have often been high tensions in the National Order of Lawyers, until they have agreed on a reform which can be positively evaluated, both for lawyers and for consumers. In the Order of Architects, both entities are asking for reform. I wanted to find out if you're aware of the history of the National Order of Lawyers and the reform she's developed. How do you feel about moving this parallel towards a reform of the Order of Architects? Will this example serve as an inspiration for your bill? Could you explain your bill a little bit more? That is how I come to my second question, Minister. On 15 December 2015, the Supreme Court of the Self-Employees issued an opinion on the reform of the Order of Architects. She did so on her own initiative, because the need within the sector is so high, and advises to establish two autonomous orders and to keep the federal consultative body informal. The Brussels architects would then have the freedom to choose which order they wish to join. In your reply to my written question, you say that there must be a federal body. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Are you familiar with the Supreme Court's advice? Will you take this into account when drafting your bill? Can you tell me when you will come up with that bill? You said you'd test that bilaterally with the sector. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u2	In reply to your previous questions on this subject, I did indeed say that there can be no talk of a complete deadlock within the order and that decision-making is delayed by discussions of secondary importance. I am referring to all decisions directly related to the legal mission of the Architects' Order, including the exercise of the honour, discretion and dignity of the members of the order in the exercise of their profession. Furthermore, I am thinking of declaring to the judicial authorities any infringement of the laws and regulations protecting the title and the profession of architect and also of strategic decisions. As a secondary concern, I consider all the actions of the Executive Board and decisions and discussions such as the participation in fairs such as Batibouw and other events, the composition of working groups, the place of meetings of the National Council, the compulsory or non-compulsory mention of the registration number to the National Council, etc. According to my government Commissioner, the addition of all these secondary cases means that the agenda of the monthly meetings is overloaded, with all the consequences for the quality of the discussions and decisions. My government Commissioner draws my attention to the fact that many issues can be dealt with quickly and generally unanimously. This concerns, for example, discussions on disciplinary cases, exemptions from contributions and opinions on the admission of foreign architects. I am, of course, aware of the reform of the Bar Association. However, I would like to draw your attention to the political commitment not to deal with Community dossiers in this legislative period. I am prepared to establish two separate orders, but I do wish to maintain a federal structure, with decision-making powers. With a view to reforming the Architects' Order, I have received an opinion from the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. This opinion was delivered by the High Council on its own initiative. I appreciate such initiatives. I will, of course, be attentive to this opinion of the Supreme Court. However, I would like to point out that it is important for me to know the position of all the actors involved, not just those who endorsed the present opinion. In these circumstances, bilateral consultations are now taking place in my cabinet with the representative professional federations and with the presidents of the national councils, both the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking and German-speaking, of the Order. I have already delivered a first draft text to the sector, which serves as a working document for this bilateral consultation. The broad lines of the opinion of the High Council which I was subsequently allowed to receive are also reflected in my draft text which was delivered to the sector. Firstly, there is the creation of two autonomous orders with legal personality and its own financial autonomy, which are responsible, inter alia, for ensuring compliance with the deontological rules, respect for the laws and regulations governing establishment, the organisation of traineeships and so on. Secondly, we are talking about a minimum guaranteed representation of Brussels architects in every order. Thirdly, there is a federal consultative body which acts as an official point of contact for the Minister for Foreign Affairs for me, therefore, that can take decisions by consensus. Fourthly, the results of the bilateral consultations that are taking place in my cabinet will be presented at the forthcoming round tables. I shall then have to obtain an agreement at government level before a draft law can be submitted to Parliament. In these circumstances it is still difficult to communicate to you a date on which the file will be submitted. For me, this must come to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. You mention a number of matters of primary and secondary importance. I believe that this reform is really necessary and must be done as quickly as possible. The matters of secondary importance you mention, for example participation in fairs or the reference to the number on the stationery, are extremely sensitive in one of the language wings. This is proof of the rising tensions that arise within the order. We therefore believe that reform should be carried out as soon as possible at the service of the sector itself. With N-VA, we have tabled a legislative proposal on this, and we are doing it for the sector, not for ourselves. Within the sector itself, we have already done research and we believe that there is a broad consensus on the proposal of the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. We therefore hope that you will take this into account. You also point out that the coalition agreement agreed that there should be a Community stand-still. We respect that. But is it a Community dossier if all parties agree to reform something? In my view, the Community's standstill will not be violated in this case. This reform was also included in the previous coalition agreement, but could not be implemented at that time. If the whole sector is asking for this reform, I do not think we should communitize it. Finally, my final question. You said you were working on a text. Do you intend to inform the committee of this? That seems to me to be a good idea, so that it becomes a widely supported proposal. I'll put in follow-up questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u4	Where does the stand still begin and where does the stand still end? That is indeed a good question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u5	Mr de Lamotte, we come back to your question on the bill on opening hours (No. 8645).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chair, but out of cordiality to the person who had an attached question, who is suffering today, I propose to postpone the matter to a later meeting, if the minister sees no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u7	The attached questions No 7517 by Mrs Vanheste and No 8645 by Mr de Lamotte are therefore postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u8	Mr President, Minister, in your general policy note, we are talking about improving the operation of the Contribution Waiver Commission. As I indicated in my speech on 24 November 2015, there are many shortcomings in this Commission today, particularly with regard to its failing motivations, which are often overturned by the Council of State. On 8 March 2013, the Court of Cassation decided that appeals against the Commission's negative decisions must be brought before the Labour Court and not the Council of State, which means that appeals to the Council of State will be declared inadmissible and will not be dealt with. Almost three years have passed since that judgment. It must be noted that there has been no legislative adjustment. In the absence of an amendment to Royal Decree No 38 on the social status of self-employed persons, they are obliged to submit to the decision of the Commission des dispensations and cannot exercise a legitimate right of appeal, even if they are facing financial difficulties. At the commission of 24 November 2015, you indicated that an Appeal Board could be set up within the Commission to hear appeals against the decisions of the Exemption Board. In this context, I would like to know the following. First, when would this Appeals Chamber be set up in practice? Secondly, in what way would the creation of this chamber enable it to comply with the judgment of the Court of Cassation, which considers that the Labour Court is competent? Thirdly, how many members would this chamber be composed of? Fourthly, how would you guarantee the independence of the members of this chamber? And fifthly, within what time frame should it decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u9	Mr President, Mr President, the improvement of the exemption procedure and the reform of the Commission's contribution waivers are important points that I am aware of and which, of course, require a number of legal analyses and consultations. Discussions and reflections are under way in this regard, but I have not fixed a precise timing in view of all the reforms that we are carrying out, particularly in the department linked to the independents in general. However, here are some answers to your analysis. First of all, I would like to point out that we are in a situation where the number of applications lodged at first instance before the Commission for exemptions has fallen dramatically. As you know, we have registered nearly 11,000 fewer applications in one year, a reduction of 40%. Furthermore, as you know, the Commission has discretionary powers. Its decisions refer to the state of need and the situation close to the state of need. These are currently the only regulatory criteria, which are not further defined by the famous Royal Decree No 38 and have not been further defined to give the Commission the margin of appreciation necessary to examine each situation. It is here that we are working on the pre-definition of a number of criteria and on communication and information concerning these pre-conditions. On another point, it has not escaped you that Royal Decree No. 38 has just been adapted following the vote of the law on various provisions concerning the social status of the self-employed. The possibility of challenging the legality of the Commission's decisions was reopened for self-employed workers and joint and several officials before the Labour Court. This, of course, is and already is a step forward in the matter. The judgment of the Court of Cassation of 8 March 2013 to which you refer had already given rise to a prior legislative adaptation. Here, it was a two-month appeal period before the Labour Court that had been introduced in Article 17 of this famous Royal Decree No. 38 by Article 39 of the Law of 25 April 2014 on various provisions in the field of social security, which entered into force on 16 June 2014. Following the reform of the calculation of contributions for self-employed workers, which has been in force since January 2015, the text on the appeal had been omitted from the latest version of Article 17. Since this provision has been fully rewritten with a view to the reform of contributions since the adoption of the Act on various provisions on the social status of self-employed persons, at the end of 2015 this gap has again been filled. The jurisdiction of the labour courts in the event of a challenge to the decision of the Commission des dispensations de contributions is therefore reaffirmed, but now included in Article 22 of Royal Decree No 38 with retroactive effect from 1 January 2015. In so doing, the right to an effective remedy has been safeguarded, maintained and clarified for persons who wish to challenge the legality of the decisions of the Commission des dispensations de contributions before the Labour Court. Therefore, it remains to be determined in the context of the policy note and the government agreement how to structure another form of recourse. In this regard, I am confronted with two proposals. The first proposal would concern a form of automaticity of the first instance examination with - to choose - a possible appearance for the applicants. The Appeals Chamber, whose composition still needs to be coordinated, but whose independence would of course be guaranteed, would provide for a possible appearance of the applicants. I therefore still have to assess the mechanism, this possibility of appearance at first instance and second instance, and even the stand still in terms of social law. Very sincerely, I am still giving myself some time to carry out this reform. The point is that it's a tool. We need to think carefully about the accuracy of the state of need, the criteria, the degree of appeal, the appearance or not, at first instance, the second instance, possible at both levels or at one level. These are the legal elements that hold my attention. Honestly, a legislature lasts five years. Although we have already done a great deal, you know, I am still giving myself some time to carry out this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your initial response. There are still practical issues to be resolved; you have raised them. I will pay particular attention to the composition of the Chamber, the decision to establish one per court or not and the time limits within which it should decide. This is a question that you have not answered. I will not fail to analyse your answer carefully and to come back to the subject, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u11	Mr President, Minister, there have been serious computer problems in the RSVZ for some time now. This problem was identified in several media in spring 2015, but the problems would still not be fully resolved to date. As a result, it is still very difficult to calculate the pension amount for certain categories of self-employed persons in good time. Many of these self-employed persons were granted provisional pensions, but the backlog has accumulated and it is not evident that they will be able to resolve this in the short term. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the problems? If so, where is the cause of it? How will you deal with the backlog in pension calculations? Do you have a view of the number of people facing this? Is there a budget to address these problems? When do you believe that the computer system will be resolved? When will one be able to work without problems? Will staff be needed for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u12	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, it is correct that the National Institute for Social Security of the Self-employed is faced with computer problems as a result of the reforms introduced by the government in relation to pensions on 1 January 2015. I would remind you that through these measures, in particular, provision has been made for a relaxation of the principle of the unity of career, which regulates the overlapping of pensions of the same kind, namely retirement, retirement and survivors' pensions and survivors' pensions. The extent of the adjustments to the calculation programme and to the notification programme required by the various changes, and their complex nature, have caused a delay in implementation. As a result, RSVZ was obliged to take provisional decisions in the pension files until the end of September with an effective date from January 2015. Until the end of September, the RSVZ notified some 23 000 provisional decisions. In many cases, the amount of the advance was equal to the amount of the pension granted at the time of the final decision. In those cases, the final decisions thus confirm the amount of the pension already paid by the National Pensions Office on the basis of the provisional decision. The person concerned is therefore not harmed. Since the end of September several computer programs have been put into production. They increased the number of cases in which a final decision could be taken. Since then, the pension services of the regional offices and the central administration of the RSVZ have sought to gradually reduce the backlog in the notification of final decisions. I would stress that a large number of final decisions on pensions starting in early 2016 have already been notified. No additional budget was allocated to the RSVZ for the implementation of the pension reforms. Developments in information technology were financed by the IT operating appropriations entered in the 2015 budget. It is planned that the calculation programme and the notification programme would have been updated during the first quarter of 2016, which would allow for final decisions to be taken on all files starting with the pension in 2015, and for a final decision to be made in 2016. I express my regret for this temporary but difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u14	Minister, I am sure I will take note of your last words. As you know, it has not been clear for the pensions of the self-employed. First there was the reform, which caused uncertainty for a lot of people, and there is still a delay to be resolved. Together with you, I hope that during the first quarter we will really succeed in putting the data processing on hold. Let it perhaps be a lesson for the future, not just for your department, that if we carry out major reforms, we must also ensure that the services are able to follow, otherwise there will be a great deal of uncertainty, as is the case with prospective pensioners who are given a temporary decision, but do not know how their file will finally be completed. I hope that the problem of information technology will be resolved during the first quarter in order to ensure that there is certainty and that the delay can be resolved quickly, in the absence of which we will, of course, continue to monitor this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u15	The discussion of the question has ended, although I am not sure whether this incident can be definitively closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 7859 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in general, the Court of Auditors notes and regrets the recurring delays in the tabling of draft budgets for the public social security institutions, of which INASTI is a member. The Court also pointed out that it had only unupdated provisional documents to carry out its budgetary analysis. Lastly, she said that the management bodies of social security institutions generally did not receive information on the savings or calculation procedures adopted by the Council of Ministers. In particular, these bodies cannot determine what resources they will have to carry out their legal tasks during 2016. These findings are indicative of some negligence on the part of the government, which complicates the work of the Court of Auditors and Parliament. Indeed, the Court of Auditors is not in a position to carry out its task of informing Parliament. As for Members, they do not have clear, precise figures for a quality debate. In view of these findings, Minister, what is the current state of affairs in the institutions within your area of competence, in particular INASTI? Were the information provided by INASTI to the Court of Auditors updated? The Court of Auditors found a significant difference in the amount of EUR 7 million between the estimates made by INASTI and those made by the Social Security SPF, also reflected in the general statement, in the reduction of social contributions. The first figure is EUR -77.4 million, while the second figure is EUR -70.4 million. How do you explain this discrepancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u18	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, first of all I must point out that I pay the utmost attention to the Court of Auditors' reports. I've always done it at all times. On the other hand, I also pay full attention to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors which, of course, should be followed up and implemented. However, I must deny the words of negligence that you refer to. The term is too strong. I think you are convinced yourself that this term is too strong. Of course, there are improvements to be made. I would like to answer the various questions you have addressed to me. I'll take them one by one. In response to your first question, I can tell you that the final draft budget for 2016 was dealt with at the Board of Directors on 16 December 2015. Only a management body can draw up the budget of a public social security institution. The mission budget is presented at this stage. It is based on the general statement of 13 November 2015 on the revenue and expenditure budget for the 2016 budget year, the tables of which concern the independents. These tables are produced by the SPF Social Security. As for your second question, INASTI is characterised in particular by its concern for professionalism and the client, which I can testify to. Of course, this institute will always communicate and communicate the most up-to-date data, since they are the most relevant. In addition, it works proactively and systematically seeks to document itself with key people in order to compare the data and to be able to justify the figures it produces. It should also be pointed out that INASTI is trying to respond immediately – and I welcome it – to the questions posed to it. As you have noted, the Court of Auditors is very pleased with the cooperation of the Institute's departments and, in particular, with the information provided by its financial service, which you are giving me the opportunity to welcome. With regard to your third question, INASTI will include in its 2016 initial budget the technical estimates of the updated 2016 budget pre-figuration last September, to which it will incorporate the decisions taken during the conclave. In this case, the estimated amount for the impact of the tax shift measure is EUR 70.4 million. It will be deducted from the estimated income from the self-employed in order of social contributions. The difference of EUR 7 million referred to by the Court of Auditors results from the application of the new index assumptions. The forecast of the 2016 budget and the consumer price index in June 2015 indicated 0.4% for 2015 and 1.4 % for this year. On the other hand, in the September updated estimates, the consumer price index was estimated at 0.4% for 2015 and 1.2 % for this year. You will immediately have identified the difference. This has an impact on the portion used for the 2012 and 2013 revenue recovery. In the 2016 estimates, this represents a reduction in social contributions of €7 million, which can be found here. The general presentation is based on the report of the Monitoring Committee, which considers the figures mentioned in last September's technical estimates as an updated prefiguration. The figure of EUR 77 million is therefore derived from two different origins. I am, of course, at your disposal for any further clarification in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u19	Minister, I have taken note of your explanations. I stress the need to have the most up-to-date data possible when they are mentioned in important documents analysed in the context of the budgetary debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u20	Minister, you want to promote the reintegration of people with disabilities and strengthen the procedures for granting and monitoring allowances. On the basis of the estimates provided by your administration, the Court of Auditors states in its report on the state budget for 2016 that these measures should save 4.5 million euros in the self-employed scheme. I would therefore like to know the following. 1. How has this economy been calculated for the self-employed? What are your estimates based on? For employees, it appears that INAMI does not yet have any information. 2. The Court of Auditors states in its report that the socio-occupational reintegration of persons with disabilities only concerns employees. What about the independents?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u21	Mr President, honourable Member, the government as a whole has, as you know, highlighted the problem of the reintegration of persons with disabilities under the term "Back to work". The underlying idea, which is found in the government agreement itself, is that we all have every interest in considering what people can still do and not just the loss of their earning capacity. Of course, a socio-professional integration and social inclusion approach underlies these government provisions. I believe that, of course, the self-employed can also benefit significantly from such a paradigm shift and that the very rapid preparation of a plan for exiting work incapacity can also clarify the situation and help to reintegrate it, either in the enterprise itself or in a new professional activity. In the budget notifications of the Council of Ministers of 28 August 2015, the expected economy under this framework was 56 million in 2016. This amount, distributed between the two schemes, gives for the employees 51.52 million, or 92% and 4.48 million for the self-employed, or 8%. This distribution is, of course, theoretical at this stage, on the basis of expenditure. I would like to make it available to you – and I propose to provide it to you following my intervention – a summary of the amounts actually budgeted, measure by measure: - return to work and immediate cessation of benefits: EUR 1.2 million, up to EUR 1 130 000 for employees and EUR 69 800 for self-employed persons, respectively; - implementation of the company anti-fraud action plan: 4 708 000 for employees, 291 000 for the self-employed; - three-month reintegration plan: a total of 18,627,000, of which 18,425,000 are employees and 200,000 are self-employed; - abolition of the increase in unemployment: provision which applies only to employees. This summary is based on data from the relevant INAMI services. With regard to socio-occupational reintegration measures for self-employed workers who are recognised as incapacitated for work, a new system of authorised activity has entered into force since 1 July 2015, as you probably know. The new system is now structured into two axes. First, where full reintegration is possible, the new system now allows the resumption of an activity authorized by the mutual physician to be extended to the exercise of any activity. This may be the old, new, self-employed or salaried activity, provided that the recovery is compatible with the worker's state of health. This authorisation may be granted for an extended period of six months with a maximum of 18 months. During this period, the worker has a legal presumption of incapacity for work. The second case is that, unfortunately, full reintegration is no longer possible. Such authorization may also be extended to the resumption of any activity, here without limit in time, provided that it is compatible with the worker's state of health and that the worker remains recognised as incapacity for work within the meaning of the regulations of the Royal Decree of July 1971. An assessment is then made by the medical advisor every six months, unless the evidence in the medical record warrants a review at a later date. During the first six months of the resumption of the authorized activity, the worker continues to receive full benefits. As of the seventh month, his allowances were then reduced by 10 per cent. The aim is to enable more workers to return, in whole or in part, depending on their situation, to the labour market. Finally, with regard to the implementation of systematic reintegration plans within three months of incapacity for work, the Management Committee of the INAMI Self-Employed Workers' Compensation Service has so far asked to wait for this measure to be implemented on the part of employees in order to move forward in the self-employment system. My wish is for this to be done again in 2016, but I think it is wise to carry out the employee component, and to learn from it if necessary, before implementing the scheme for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u22	I have taken note of the Minister's answers and look forward to the promised document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u23	Minister, seven years have passed since the economic and financial crisis that shook the world in 2008. If the spectre of this traumatic economic period is still watermarked in entrepreneurial minds, it would seem that optimism resurfaces among Belgian SMEs, and I welcome it. This is in any case the result of a study by the Deloitte Group and the Union des Classes Moyennes, published in mid-November, according to which the turnover of our small and medium-sized enterprises has increased by 17% over the last four years, reflecting their good health. Of course, that's great news. An increase in turnover, a healthy business environment are necessary for our country's economic growth and job creation. We owe this good news to innovation by the leaders of our SMEs, to the use of state-of-the-art IT tools, to the improvement of workers' productivity, to the diversification of investments, and to the new government measures, commonly known as tax shift, which will enable our companies to be more competitive in European and global markets. Minister, have you been aware of the results of this study? What did you get from it? Has the confidence of Belgian entrepreneurs vis-à-vis the government finally been restored? Do you expect an even greater evolution in the turnover of Belgian companies in the coming years? What measures do you propose to SMEs which unfortunately cannot boast of such good health?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Cassart. I confirm that I have come to know with great attention the 2015 SME barometer of Deloitte but also a whole series of other studies. The media echoed a series of studies, such as the quarterly independent barometer and SME leaders or UCM's 'Wallonia-Brussels', the UNIZO SME barometer, the business surveys of the National Bank of Belgium, the business surveys of the Public Investment Bank and others, including the biannual survey on SMEs' access to finance in the euro area published by the ECB, and most recently a Graydon annual report on the financial and economic health of SMEs, carried out in collaboration with UNIZO and the UCM, which presents encouraging results since 73.3% of SMEs in the country report or are considered to be in a positive financial situation, are unlikely to go bankrupt and plan to grow in the future. There are, however, nuances concerning Brussels that really deserve all the attention. Returning to UCM's 2015 SME barometer, UCM reports that independents and SME leaders look forward to the effects of the tax shift measures decided by the federal government majority. On the other hand, there is clearly a return to the confidence of entrepreneurs and self-employed people, as well as a fairly high level of support and confidence with regard to the measures recently adopted in the framework of the tax shift or in that of its SME-independent component. According to the National Bank's latest forecasts, growth is expected to return to about 1.3% in 2016 with, we hope, growth prospects of up to 1.6% in 2017. Companies benefit from an improvement in their competitiveness, especially for those facing international competition, as a result of measures to reduce wage costs and those relating to wage standards and index jumps. On the other hand, we know that we are generally benefiting from a favourable context, in particular from the Euro-dollar exchange rate, which should also support our exports while continuing to contribute to the restoration of the profitability of our companies. According to this study, the reinvigoration of business investment would also be strengthened. This information can only encourage us to be truly proactive, optimistic and willing to support SMEs and the growth of their turnover and, of course, employment. With regard to the new avenues of work, in the context of the government's agreement and the SME plan, we must work decisively towards administrative simplification, often cited as always problematic, the evaluation of SME financing, the diversification of sources of financing. In addition, as far as the labour market is concerned, the availability of competent staff and experienced managers is an interesting avenue of work. As far as I am concerned, I think that further reflections on work flexibility are important in order to encourage our SMEs to engage. In this regard, I will certainly come back with a number of proposals in the next few days. In addition, there is a whole range of competences that also fall under the responsibility of responsible colleagues in the federated entities. I really want us to keep a positive context of collaboration with all levels. Moreover, we must not hesitate to combine and articulate synergies between measures taken on all levels of our institutional structure. I say it frankly, I hope that this Parliament will be that of SMEs, independents and businesses, because through them it is employment, and therefore society, that is at stake. That's what I'm working on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I fully agree with you because I also hope that this Parliament will be that of the companies and initiatives of the government because, through this, the economy will be better and the workers will be better. It is society as a whole that is doing better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u26	Question No 8300 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rita Gantois' 7948 will be converted into a written question. Question No 8050 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius is postponed. I will leave in abeyance the attached questions No 8743 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel and No 9078 by Mr Georges Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u27	Minister, recently, innovative techniques probably representing the future of agriculture, namely sensors and drones, have emerged on the market. These devices will enable the collection of highly accurate information on plant stress and, in particular, on possible diseases, difficult soils, lack of water or nutrients. The diagnosis will allow the farmer to treat precisely the problem plots instead of applying homogeneous treatment and therefore save money. It will no longer be necessary to spread pesticides or herbicides everywhere, as the area to be treated will be identified. This method will also allow seeding, spraying the fields, harvesting more accurately and even driving without the hands. Benefits include energy and money savings and environmental gains. The problem is that these new technologies are very expensive and difficult to obtain. Indeed, it requires the agreement of the farmer, the mayor and Belgocontrol to use them. It is important that the public sector anticipates and develops the expertise of handling these drones and sensors so that it is not only in the hands of private companies, which are not committed to providing objective services and advice to farmers. These technologies are already being used by other European and American states and greatly facilitate the work of farmers. Minister, how do you look at these new technologies? Have you obtained more information about these and their results? Bearing in mind that these technologies are booming in other countries, and in the light of the current agricultural crisis, will Belgium look into them and think about investing in order to facilitate the work of our farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u28	Mr Blanchart, you are right, this is an important issue. We know how well the organisation of agriculture and livestock has been helped, supported and accompanied over the last few years by the use of a series of new techniques, new technologies, innovative approaches that make the work of farmers easier, more efficient and bring added value to their business. In this regard, we know that some of our farmers are now implementing GPS-type techniques for the operation of vehicles and other techniques. I could illustrate with abundance how innovation on farms has led to changes, for example, milking robots that replace human work on a number of our farms today. There are many other provisions. As far as drones are concerned, we are facing extremely important economic developments. It is expressed not only in agriculture but also in a number of other fields, such as the economy, transport, etc. As far as the legal framework is concerned, my colleague, the Minister responsible for Mobility, is working very proactively to adapt this legal framework to include a range of concepts that are important: the technical contribution, the economic contribution that drones represent for sectors, including the agricultural sector, with expected consequences such as reducing the use of a number of plant protection products, pesticides, etc. Other important elements are safety, privacy aspects, the observation that these drones can make, the combination of these drones and other transport elements, etc. It is obvious that, in this context, the contribution of drones, based on the foreign experience which you also refer to in your question, must be the focus of my colleague's attention. I am in touch with it so that the agricultural aspect is not forgotten in the context of this global reflection on this new technology that has invaded not only our skies, but also our daily lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. I also thank you for sharing the concerns of farmers. Let us hope that the normative evolution at the level of the Minister for Mobility and in connection with your ministry can quickly provide answers on the ground, so that our farmers adapt to this evolution and can optimize this work for the benefit of their microeconomies but also of the Belgian market and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u30	Mrs Cassart-Milleux turned her question No 8300 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 8375) by Mrs Gantois and others, (Doc. Mrs Dierick's 8768 is also translated into written questions. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, an independent person who is going through a bad time may, under certain conditions, apply to be treated as a person carrying on his or her activity in a complementary capacity. Article 37 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 1967 is then applied. Depending on the low level of his or her professional income, he or she will be granted a reduction in social contributions or even an exemption. But it will not be without consequences for his social rights. Indeed, the years during which Article 37 is applied will not be taken into account for his pension. Self-employed persons who benefit from Article 37 will therefore have to work longer than normal in order to open up their rights to a legal pension. Since pension reform, this has obviously become more problematic. Mr Minister, is it not paradoxical that years of reduced activity are not taken into account for the right to a legal pension, whereas years of unemployment are indeed taken into account as equivalent periods? Is this not discriminatory against those who keep working? Could it not, at the very least, be considered to assimilate these periods, with or without financial adjustment in the event of a return to normal activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, as you know, the benefit of assimilation of the activity into a supplementary activity provided for in Article 37(1) of the Royal Decree of 19 December 1967 on the general regulation pursuant to Royal Decree No 38 of 27 July 1967 organising the social status of self-employed persons is limited to three specific categories of persons subject to social status. This particular arrangement was intended for the specific needs encountered by: - 1° married persons (spouse or wife), as well as widowed or widowed persons who benefit from rights derived from the status of their partner. For example, the right to benefits under a compulsory sickness and disability pension and insurance scheme, the health care sector, at least equal to the social status of self-employed workers; - 2° students under the age of 25 who take courses or prepare an end-of-studies paper or who carry out an internship in order to be appointed, in particular in the context of a public office; - 3° certain political agents whose income is less than EUR 1 439,42, which is the minimum income threshold to contribute to social status. As long as these self-employed persons in a main occupation remain under a limited income ceiling, i.e. in 2016 a maximum income of €6,815.52 for the holder of derived rights and students or a maximum income of €1,439.42 for political agents, they may then apply to be treated as independent persons in addition. In the event of a positive decision by INASTI, they will be liable for reduced social contributions. There is therefore a possibility for the categories and under the conditions I have just mentioned. According to the information provided by the social insurance funds to INASTI, as at 30 September 2015 (latest figures available), there are 27,814 persons subject to social insurance, of whom 4,583 men and 23,231 women are eligible under Article 37(1). Since taxable persons on the basis of their derived rights benefit from a favourable scheme of reduced contributions, the scheme provides that they do not open entitlement to benefits on the basis of their own right. The recognition of a right specific to benefits in social status is subject to the payment of contributions due in the event of a main activity. If there is an advantage, there is also a disadvantage. Finally, it should be noted that any beneficiary of Article 37(1) has the possibility to waive the benefit of this measure, but only for the future. A retroactive waiver is therefore not possible. A waiver shall take effect only from the year following the date of waiver. The social status of the self-employed, however, includes other measures designed to help the self-employed in a difficult financial situation. For example, self-employed persons with major economic or social difficulties have the possibility to apply to the Commission for exemption from their social contributions. This commission verifies the state of need or assimilated and can therefore, if necessary, exempt them from one or more contribution quarters. In the event of a waiver, however, it is a rule that paid quarters are not taken into account in the calculation of the pension. In the event of a return to normal activity at a later stage, it is possible to regularise the non-prescribed contributions exempted and thus to replenish its pension rights for the legally exempt quarters. As you know, I do not exclude new measures in favour of the self-employed. In this context, I am well aware of the awareness-raising comments you have asked me through your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u33	You are therefore the right person to improve the situation. The answer you give disappoints me somewhat to the extent that I hoped for a better consideration of the difficulties encountered by an independent person who is going through a difficult time but who does not give up on his activities. He tries to get away with it while continuing to contribute according to the same rules as an independent on a complementary basis. It is not surprising that under these conditions, some people prefer to completely cease the activity or try to obtain a contribution exemption from the Commission for exemption from contributions, hence the explosion of these applications since the beginning of the crisis in 2008. Minister, I really count on your personal motivation to improve the situation of the self-employed. I know you are ardently defending these.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u34	This is a great challenge, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u35	Minister, your federal plan for self-employed and SMEs states that the law of 21 December 2013 aimed at rebalancing the rights and obligations of borrowers and creditors with a view to strengthening access to credit for entrepreneurs would be reviewed at the beginning of 2016. This would be done on the basis of a state of affairs prepared by the SME Observatory of the FPS Economy. The objectives are to improve information on SMEs on three aspects: the reasons why a file was refused, the existing funding possibilities and the financing method of the international project. What is the status of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u36	In connection with the review of the Law of 21 December 2013, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft Royal Decree on 18 December 2013. This draft should be examined by the Council of State. In accordance with Article 14 of the Law of 21 December 2013, this draft Royal Decree describes the methodology to be implemented in the context of the review of the Law. This draft of KB stipulates that the evaluation of the law includes the following shutters. Firstly, research organized by a survey of the companies referred to in Article 2 of the Act. Secondly, the figures of the National Bank of Belgium on the loans granted to the undertakings referred to in Article 2 of the Act, as well as the statistics of the Ombudsman in financial disputes, Ombudsfin, on the appropriations referred to in Article 2 of the Act. Thirdly, a detailed report by Febelfin on the credit intermediaries and creditors referred to in the law. Fourthly, a detailed report by the FSMA on the findings made in the exercise of supervision as referred to in Article 14 of the Act and the positions resulting therefrom. Fifth, the prior opinion of the FSMA, the National Bank of Belgium, the Ombudsman in financial disputes and organisations of small and medium-sized enterprises. Sixth, the decisions resulting from the elements contained in points 1 to 5 above. The investigation under point 1 above will consist of a non-compulsory survey carried out on a sample of companies referred to in Article 2 of the Act. The objective is that this review will allow it to determine whether the law of 21 December 2013 meets its objectives and identify possible amendments to that law where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say a design of KB was made. If all this is done, what date do you think you can come to Parliament by? Will this change be subject to further discussion in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u38	I believe that a date for evaluation is laid down in the law. A two-year deadline has been set. So we're gonna have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on 10 November 2015, I asked you a few questions in this committee about the new method of calculating the social contributions of self-employed workers. It was the oral question No. 6622. After all, the system had a number of problems. You also acknowledged this and replied that you had set up a monitoring committee that would put forward proposals for these bottlenecks within a few weeks. In the meantime, we have been a few months further and other problems have also been identified to me. What proposals has the monitoring committee put forward and what do they entail?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u40	The problem you raised in November 2015 concerns the self-employed whose income was exceptionally low in 2012, 2013 and/or 2014. Following the reform, the revenue for those years is still eligible for the calculation of the provisional contributions, but no longer for the calculation of the definitive contributions for 2015, 2016 and/or 2017. In some cases, these self-employed persons have the right to feel disadvantaged by the reform of significant and temporary reductions in their income. In the old regime, they could have expected lower social contributions three years later. As you know, since the beginning of 2015, I have been regularly bringing together a monitoring committee on reform. It represents all the parties involved in the reform, namely the representative self-employed organisations, the social insurance funds, the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed (RSVZ), the DG for Self-employed and the institutes of the accountants and the company auditors. My cabinet presides over that committee. This has already been held five times, namely in April, June, September and November 2015 and in January 2016. In order to find a solution to the problem, I asked a technical working group within the monitoring committee to develop corrective transitional measures. This working group met several times and drew attention to the complexity of the introduction of such measures. However, she has submitted a proposal to me. My cabinet and I are examining this proposal from the point of view of administrative and budgetary feasibility and its importance regarding a real positive impact on all affected self-employed workers. I will not fail to present to you at a later date the results of this consultation and, where appropriate, the modalities of the remedial measures that have been withheld. Just a little patience, Mr Janssen, because it is a very technical work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You say that you set up a technical working group and made proposals. That will indeed be very complex. The only thing that bothers me is that we do not have an end date when we close it. I've got a problem with that. You can expect me to ask you again about this in a few months' time. We shouldn't be lifting this over the summer recess. This should be cleared up for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois' 8692 and 8712 have been converted into written questions. Question No 8714 by Mr Piedboeuf is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u43	Minister, any resident of a municipality, whether employed, self-employed or unemployed, can take up a mandate as a municipal, police or OCMW council member. Nevertheless, problems have been reported to us regarding the combination of a mandate with an independent activity. Can the inclusion of a mandate be regarded as the exercise of a professional activity in which a contribution in the form of social contributions for self-employed persons can be requested? If so, is there an obligation to inform the person concerned about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u44	The exercise of an elected mandate as a city council member, OCMW council member or member of the police council shall not be regarded as a professional activity giving rise to the payment of personal social security contributions in the social status of the self-employed. The self-employed person who combines his professional activity with a municipal political mandate must now inform his social insurance fund for the self-employed. The social insurance fund must deduct income from the political mandate, as reported in the tax sheet 281.30 and also valued as an independent professional income, from the overall net taxable income communicated by the tax authority. There is no automatic notification at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u45	Mr President, this is a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u46	Minister, the change in the system for paying social contributions is paying off. In 2015, 252 million euros in social contributions were collected more than the year before. That is EUR 245 million more than budgeted. Self-employed people who are doing well can pay a voluntary higher contribution instead of waiting three years to get an unpleasantly increased adjustment. In the opposite direction, too, it is now possible that self-employed people who are in difficulty may not have to pay too high social charges, which could lead to further problems. Nevertheless, the Walloon self-employed organisation UCM asks to update the system. Among other things, it calls for more and more flexible ways of reducing contributions. She also calls for a solution to the problem in which the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 are never taken as the basis for calculating the contribution. That's why I have some questions for you. What vision do you have for introducing greater flexibility with regard to reduced social rates? What solution do you intend to give to the problem that the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 can never be taken as the basis? Do you know of any additional problems with this system that need to be resolved? How do you see such a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u47	I think your second question is the same as the previous one. I am not going to repeat that answer. The legislation currently provides that, on the basis of objective elements, self-employed persons may obtain a reduction in their provisional social contributions. The law lays down a set of thresholds. These are income thresholds, including the income of the self-employed and on the basis of which the social security fund calculates the amount of the reduced provisional contribution. This system of thresholds and the limited number of thresholds represents a certain severity. The first threshold was set at EUR 13 000 and the second at EUR 26 000 for a self-employed person in the main occupation. As I explained in reply to your previous question on a draft, since the beginning of 2015, I have regularly brought together the monitoring committee of the reform, in which all parties were involved and all topics were discussed. At those meetings, the Committee examined the system of reduction thresholds. The Committee shall examine quarterly data on the allocation of reductions, numbers and amounts. Secondly, members also report possible complaints. The threshold system is considered too strict by some self-employed workers because they cannot obtain a reduction, but does not generate any complaints at this stage. Thirdly, finally, the general management Self-employed persons of the FPS Social Security Office were instructed to carry out a monitoring of decisions with a view to establishing consistency in the requirements between the social security funds regarding the objective elements. At this stage, there are also no elements that show differences in treatment. As a function of that full analysis of the functioning of the threshold system, the Monitoring Committee discussed on 28 January 2016 the possibility of relaxing the threshold system, for example by adding two or three additional thresholds, which I also support. The Committee will resume its work very soon, in a few days' time. I think I have already answered your second question. Thirdly, there is currently no other problem with the self-employed as regards the introduction and improvement of the reform. Decisions must therefore be taken on two major issues, two chapters, with the self-employed organisations. The proposals will be discussed for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also believe that it is not such a big problem. You say that the threshold system may be relaxed. I believe that this can be included in the earlier questions I have asked. We can try to get through the summer recess with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u49	Question No 8971 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u50	Mr President, Minister, according to recent press reports, Belgium ranks among the top 3 European countries receiving posted workers, behind Germany and France. Our country is therefore highly exposed to social dumping which costs thousands of jobs to our independents and SMEs, especially in sectors where competition from foreign companies is strong (construction, transport, horeca,...). According to ONEM, 15,000 jobs would have been lost between 2011 and 2014 in construction as a result of social dumping. At the end of January, the Union of Middle Classes expressed in the press its ras-le-bol about this practice and urgently called for an ambitious battle plan at all levels (European, national and regional). If, of course, it is at European level that the bulk of the fight must be carried out in order to be the most effective, this does not prevent action at national level. Several tracks have been launched on the following axes: - the approval of all subcontractors on construction sites; - the penalisation of accepting a price that is clearly too low; - the control of all enterprises over their application of the rules of safety, well-being at work and access to the profession. I would therefore like to know what concrete actions you are planning in this area, as well as their timing, and what you have already implemented during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u51	Thank you, dear colleague, for your question. Indeed, the fight against social dumping is one of my top priorities. This very morning, I was in a meeting with the construction sector and, at noon, I signed, with my colleagues Van Overtveldt, Galant and Tommelein, the Transport Round Table, one part of which concerns the fight against social dumping. But you are right: these are not the only sectors concerned; whole parts of our economy are being snacked by social dumping. I will even illustrate your point by a figure, since in fact Belgium is the country of Europe which, in relative terms, is confronted with the highest percentage of workers posted inward, with 3.6% of the share of the labour force, while the European average is 0.7%. Moreover, as far as public procurement is concerned, we also have an unfavourable situation, since, even if all European countries see part of their public procurement won by foreign companies or in any case by a combination of companies where foreign labour is involved, Belgium sees almost 40% of its public procurement won by foreign companies or by firms which involve foreign workers, notably Romanian, Slovenian, Slovak or Estonian. It is therefore obvious that while European legislation is by definition the same for the different countries, we are faced with a particular situation. We therefore have a very specific duty to act in a determined manner. This does not avoid what needs to be done at European level and I look forward to the proposals, in particular from our European Commissioner, to try to put an end to a number of misuses of the free movement of persons. You're asking me what we've done since the beginning of the legislature. We've already done a lot of work. First of all, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, with the adaptation of the law on public procurement. This law passed at second reading in the government and will soon come to parliament for debate. It contains a series of interesting provisions. Tomorrow a working group with the sector is planned for the technical implementation of these provisions. It includes the obligation to approve subcontractors, the limitation to two of the vertical subcontractors, the obligation to register on construction sites via the "ConstruBadge"; provisions which allow tenders to be excluded from the market as soon as the tenderers do not comply or have not complied with provisions relating to the regulations in force, including those relating to labour law. The approval of subcontractors is also important to me. The plan I signed with the Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud contains no less than 40 measures which concern both the national and the European level. Many of them are already concrete. I would like to point out that I have reformed the procedure for issuing A1 certificates, the AFA membership procedure, with immediate communication between the municipal services and the social insurance funds. We have doubled the administrative fines involved, reinforced the control services. You also refer to the penalisation of clearly low prices. In this regard, I would remind you of the obligation under Article 21 of the Royal Decree of 15 July 2011 to verify whether prices are not abnormally low. This path of the examination of abnormally low prices and of the exclusion following an abnormally low price definition is also the subject of a working group on social dumping, under this new provision on public procurement, which is led by the Prime Minister. With regard to the number of checks, I suggest that you perhaps address my colleagues in charge of the control services. If I can tell you what I am doing with my colleagues or what I am doing with regard to my exclusive competence, in particular with regard to the independents or other devices, the terms that relate more broadly to control statistics are the responsibility of my colleagues, particularly Minister Kris Peeters. This is an issue that would deserve a full debate, Mr President, an entire committee, a cross-examination. I'm ready for this. I can tell you things are moving forward. I also note with satisfaction that, at other levels of power, intentions in this regard are also being shown. You know that certain provisions concerning standard specifications, the supervision of local authorities or other elements relating to contracts awarded by regional entities are the responsibility of the federated entities of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u52	Minister, thank you for your detailed response. I propose that you do not develop the policy of the regions too much, otherwise you would not stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u53	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. It is a subject that is of particular interest to us. In your replies, I would like to stress one particular point: public procurement. As you repeated, a project was passed on second reading by the government. We will soon be tabling a bill on public procurement, social and environmental clauses. I believe that this aspect of the fight against social dumping, with the clauses that can be included, is absolutely fundamental. We will be extremely attentive to the debate that will take place on this subject. Be sure that we share this concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 9011 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you a number of times about the status of student-entrepreneur. There was a reflection exercise on the improvements that could be made to the current legislation. There had already been contacts with the Länder and you would submit a number of ideas regarding the contribution rate for the social status to the general management committee. However, the most important thing I remember is that by February 2016 you wanted to have a proposal ready with regard to the student-entrepreneur status. Last week, UNIZO also made a call. Our country has 5 089 students who also have their own company. This is shown by figures from the ADMB child benefit fund that UNIZO was able to look at. Preferably 4 out of 10 young people aged 16 to 18 think of their own business. We can only welcome that. During their studies, some start with their own business, but there are still too many social and financial thresholds that slow down the exercise of an independent student activity. The obligation to pay social contributions and the fact that parents can sometimes no longer tax the students can be a brake. UNIZO therefore calls for a new status of student entrepreneur, with more flexible conditions. We must put the thresholds as low as possible and give them every opportunity to taste entrepreneurship. After their studies they can then fully join as an entrepreneur. UNIZO drew up a concrete proposal which you were probably able to see for yourself. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is your proposal regarding the student-entrepreneur status ready? If so, can you give us an explanation? If no, why not? What aspects of the UNIZO proposal have you taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u56	Mr President, Mr Janssen, I do want to make progress on this dossier. In this context, in December 2015, I asked the ABC to examine the following proposal. Students receiving income between 0 euros and half the threshold of 6 435 euros would not be liable for social contributions. A proportional contribution rate of 21.5% would then be applied to the student's income between half of the above threshold and that of EUR 12 860, 43 with the opening of own rights in the ZIV sector. The ABC met for the first time on 15 January 2016. An opinion is expected in the coming days. Taking into account the advice that the ABC will give, I would like to start consultations with my concerned federal and regional colleagues to see what their reactions to my project are. This proposal has implications in other areas which we must not neglect, for example in the field of taxation, for family benefits and so on. I am pleased to note that UNIZO's proposal is very much in line with the proposal I submitted to the ABC. I want the Statute to be as attractive as possible and to meet the expectations of future entrepreneurs who want to start a professional activity that offers a new perspective. I am also aware of the commitment of the introduction of such a statute to increase the creation of wealth for the country. Moreover, I am convinced that it is important to steer the younger generations towards entrepreneurship. Soon I will be presenting the concrete progress made in the dossier to the government and Parliament. So there will be some further discussions with my fellow Members and with the Länder and I will be ready to put forward my proposal to the government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u57	Mr. Secretary, it's progressing well. We've got calls scheduled. I have also noted that Minister Muyters in the Flemish Government took steps last week to enable students to make use of the start-up funding at the Participation Society Flanders. I do not know whether this has been discussed, but the Länder can also do their job. By next academic year, everything should be complete so that students are no longer in the dark and can concentrate on their studies and on their business they want to start.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u58	Mr President, thank you for raising this question. I have just heard that a number of other questions on social dumping have been raised, but apparently this question has been taken separately. My question deals with the A1 attestations in great order, and I have included an important part of my question on this. My question then goes further on the general actions on social dumping in self-employed people.But to a large extent I am returning to a number of previous answers from the Minister on the problem of self-employed people with A1 attestation. I refer, among other things, to the reply I made in July last year concerning the self-employed with an A1 certificate. These figures showed that the number of foreign self-employed with an A1 certificate has increased sharply in Belgium in recent years. The Minister's replies showed that several of these self-employed persons could be commented on, in particular, whether they fulfil all the relevant obligations, not least the fulfilment of the social insurance obligation. The control of this is, of course, an important weapon in ensuring the fair competition of our own self-employed with the foreign self-employed. The International Service of the RSVZ checks these A1 certificates for fraud sensitivity. They note that countries such as Romania and Bulgaria hardly report on their A1 declarations. However, they are obliged to do so. That makes control very difficult. In your reply, you said that the most common reason for challenging a foreign A1 declaration is available when the condition for posting is not fulfilled. For example, the maximum period for posting is exceeded or the person concerned in his home country had a different activity than the activity he comes to carry out in our country. These are reasons for exceeding or failing to comply with those conditions of secondment. Sometimes A1 declarations of a particular country never mention the nature of the operation which makes it very difficult to control it. You mentioned in your SME plan, as well as in previous replies, that you want to continue the fight against social dumping, including in the case of self-employed workers for whom you are responsible. In your policy paper, you have also announced that you will make further efforts to this end in 2016. Together with Secretary of State Tommelein, you have a clear mandate and competence for social dumping, especially for the self-employed. In order to improve control, it is important that there is a better exchange of information between the administrations and the inspections carried out by the different Member States. Not only in the context of cooperation with those Member States, especially in the case of the A1 attestations, this exchange of information is urgently needed and could be improved. We note, certainly from the information I get from the RSVZ and the RSZ, that there can also be much more control of the exchange of information between our administrations within our own country, i.e. control of those A1 declarations by exchange of information between our own administrations. There are also a few teeth that can be tapped. So I have a few questions for you. During the discussion of your policy paper, you announced that the ABC Self-Employees would be tasked with examining avenues for action to be taken on social status to combat the abuse of A1 certificates in an efficient manner, in the fight against social dumping and social fraud. When will you complete that evaluation? When can we expect the opinion on this? Secondly, if the advice of the ABC is available, can and will you deliver it to the committee members for further discussion and therefore for follow-up of the recommendations? Thirdly, what further action do you intend to take in the general fight against social dumping? Will you make greater efforts, inter alia, to improve the exchange of information between the RSVZ and the RSZ and between the sending countries and the receiving countries in the European Union in order to ensure more effective control of the nature of the transactions of the self-employed concerned? Finally, in the specific fight against social dumping in the self-employed, can a concrete action plan be drawn up in order to achieve results in a coordinated manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u59	I am indeed very concerned about social dumping, because it causes unfair competition for our self-employed, businesses and SMEs. You are right to note that this is a scourge in our country. Within Europe, Belgium is the country with the highest percentage of incoming posted workers, namely 3.6 per cent of the labour force. The European average is 0.7%. The Fresco report ordered by the European Union in 2015 for the financial year 2014 states that on average 8% of the A1 licences issued go to self-employed persons. As regards your question on the ABC's report on fraud, I would like to inform you that this is being studied and should be presented to you as soon as possible, as soon as it is approved, to refer to your second question. The evaluation report on the employment relationship law was adopted on 28 January 2016. The exchange of information between the RSVZ and the RSZ on social dumping has already been developed through the transfer of data on A1 self-employed persons received and partially entered in the databases accessible to the control services. There is still room for improvement in this exchange. To discuss this, we will contact my colleagues and other services. With regard to the exchange of information, it was announced that the European Union's EESSI programme ( EESSI, electronic exchange of information on social security) would be operational by the end of 2016 and mandatory by the end of 2018. The EESSI programme is an IT system designed to help social security institutions in the EU to exchange information more quickly and securely, in accordance with the European rules on social security coordination. There is currently no pan-European system. Most of the exchanges are still on paper. National institutions will exchange all information on cross-border social security files through structured electronic documents. These are sent to their destination in another EU country by the EESSI centre hosted by the European Commission. The staff of social security institutions will be able to find the correct destination in another EU country through a register of national institutions. Six people should soon be recruited from the RSVZ, only to carry out the A1 checks. For the other concrete measures relating to the spread of social dumping, I am quite free to wait for the ABC report to discuss this point in detail. Since the draft is particularly close to my heart, I would like to remind you that several measures have already been taken. Firstly, the decay procedure was simplified and improved in order to better detect the cases of fictitious connection among the self-employed. Secondly, the amount of administrative fines in the event of fictitious connection was doubled. Thirdly, a provision linking the payment of the first contribution and the rights to health care is currently being worked out. As a reminder, the fictional self-employed who are due in Belgium can benefit from health care for a maximum of two years without paying a single contribution. That will no longer be possible in the future. I have already mentioned several other measures. Perhaps we should organise a broad debate on which we can propose all these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u60	Thank you, Minister. There is a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u61	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I do indeed note that important steps are being taken, not only in terms of the exchange of information between our own administrations, but also, as you rightly pointed out, at European level, in order to be able to play a much shorter role between the European Member States in the control of information between the Member States on the connection with social security in the country of origin and the payment in the country of origin. There is still a lot of work to be done, as you quite rightly point out. Mr President, I would like to propose the following: The Minister suggests a broader exchange of views on the subject, which would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u62	Mrs Smaers, after the dossier on nuclear energy, we will have a lot of time in our committee. So that's not a problem for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u63	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u64	Mr President, I therefore propose that we hold an exchange of views on the subject of social dumping in the self-employed, in order to verify effectively on the basis of the various measures contained in the ABC report, which is the report of the Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed, as soon as it is known and available, whether the actions taken are sufficient and, if necessary, what additional needs to be done, in order to make them final. Especially if we see significant progress in this European data exchange by the end of 2016, we may be able to accelerate this process internally and on the basis of new platforms available. That is why, Mr President, I would like to take up the offer of a comprehensive update by the Minister, and to hold an exchange of views in this committee for one of the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u65	Mrs Smaers, you are right, we can take an initiative in this matter in the forthcoming discussion of the order of business. That's not a problem for me. This is an important debate. We will not find time for it in the coming weeks, but it is perfectly possible to arrange it afterwards. During the discussion of the order of business, we will certainly devote time to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u66	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic332x.u67	I'll look into that. All kinds of proposals and exchanges of ideas are planned for the next few weeks, but after that this can be done perfectly. In any case, I shall include it in the order of business. Then we have the opportunity to talk about it.
