ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u2	Mr President, Ministers, we have a problem, in particular that Russia accuses Belgium of having carried out a bombing on Tuesday of at least six civilian casualties. If I have to choose who I believe in this, Putin or Steven Vandeput, then of course I believe Steven Vandeput, like perhaps any healthy thinking person. Nevertheless, we have a problem, because unfortunately there are also unhealthy people out there who continue to think that Belgium is responsible for this bombardment and this could lead them to bad plans. So I have two questions for the Foreign Minister and a question for the Minister of Defence. Mr. Secretary of State, have you seen the Russian Ambassador? If so, what is the outcome? If not, what are you waiting for? Mr Secretary of Defense, how will you make it clear to the outside world that Belgium is not responsible for this bombing involving civilian casualties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u3	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Aleppo in Syria and Mosul in Iraq, these are two names of cities that cause a lot of ink to flow, but also and unfortunately, a lot of blood for months. We have all been aware of the Russian statements, today denied, concerning hypothetic Belgian strikes which allegedly caused casualties in Aleppo. Following these statements, my group immediately requested the urgent meeting of the Monitoring Committee on Foreign Military Operations to clarify this situation. I remain convinced that it is in this committee that all the clarity on these strikes must be made. More broadly, behind this cold military reality and political reality are civilians, silent victims, often abandoned by the international community. For my group, the fight against Daesh is not an option, but must be done in accordance with international law and in a DDD approach, as I have said on several occasions in this forum. No bomb on its own can permanently solve a situation and help civilian populations imprisoned with jihadist terror and international support, especially Russian, to the bloody regime of Bashar al-Assad. Mr Minister, I would like to take this opportunity, together with you, to make an assessment of Belgian action in the fight against Daesh. Can you give me an account of our country's military, humanitarian and diplomatic action in Syria and Iraq? How does aid to the civilian population take place in the context of the offensives launched against Mosul and the humanitarian truce decreed by Moscow in Aleppo? How much credit can be given to this truce? Is Belgium taking new initiatives in this context? Do you not fear that we will move towards a frozen conflict in Syria, without international justice being able to do its job? How do we prepare after Iraq? Finally, following the Russian statements regarding our air strikes in Syria, you announced that you had summoned the Russian ambassador. What message will you send him on behalf of our country? Will you denounce the counter-productive and dangerous attitude, including for our country, of Russia in the Syrian quagmire?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u4	Mr President, Ministers, on Tuesday Russia declared that in bombings over Aleppo, six civilians were killed by Belgian F-16 Tunisians. Russia's communication provoked a firm response from Secretary of Defense Vandeput. The Minister's reaction was very clear: that day no Belgian F-16s flew over Aleppo. Minister Vandeput mentions the Russian insinuations of disinformation that may be intended to break up the international coalition against Daesh. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you, too, have condemned the Russian declarations and called them unacceptable. You also said that you would call on the Russian ambassador in our country to ask for words and explanations. Ladies and gentlemen, this incident clearly shows how bad the relationship between Russia and the West and the European Union is today. Of course, this Moscow exercise is all the more remarkable when we look at the controversial role of the European Parliament and I express myself very carefully in the Syrian conflict between Putin and Russia. I come to my questions, gentlemen ministers. Mr Foreign Minister, I understand that you have now summoned the Russian ambassador. What was his reaction? What was his explanation? What was your reaction to these statements? Has the Belgian involvement in this matter been fully clarified? I think this is important. Putin and Russia have blamed the Belgians. The question is how we explain this to the international community. What impact will this incident have on our relations in the short and long term? What signal are you going to send to Moscow about this incident and certainly about Russia's controversial role in the conflict with Syria and its surroundings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u5	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is not just South Day, it is unfortunately also a bit East-West Day. On the night of Monday on Tuesday, a small village in Syria was bombed. The Russians were there as the chickens to accuse Belgium and the F-16 pilots of this act. I do not think we have any lessons to learn from the Russians in this area. Not only do they apply a number of international rules of law, not only in Syria, moreover, and that bothers me even more, this is a flagrant lie. At least, that is what Minister Vandeput said in his clear answer at the time he was questioned about it. These F-16 pilots weren't in the region at the time, let alone dropped a bomb. What bothers me most is that our F-16 pilots are placed in a bad daylight. Internationally they are praised for their precision and expertise: checking and double checking, not collateral damage, everything on and off and rather not dropping bombs than risking civilian casualties. That is precisely why it is so annoying that Russia is playing political games in the face of this human suffering. I understand Minister Reynders has received the Russian ambassador in the meantime. What was the result of that conversation? Minister Vandeput, on the basis of what information do you conclude that no Belgian bombs have indeed been dropped? Are you willing to give text and explanation in the follow-up committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u6	Mr President, ministers, Russia accuses Belgium of having caused civilian casualties in Syria. Both of you denied, saying that no aircraft was present, on mission, at that time. I want to believe you, of course, and Russia probably has good reason to accuse a coalition country, such as Belgium. If Belgium was really responsible for this, you would also have better deny it. I would like answers, formal evidence that Belgium is not responsible, that our F-16s have not hit. The problem is the lack of transparency in Belgium, which undermines our credibility. The picture made by the NGO Airwars shows that Belgium is, after Barhein, the least transparent country in the coalition, the worst student. It does not provide information on the places hit, the number of strikes, the ammunition used. That is a problem. The same NGO says that since August 2014, there have been at least 1,687 civilian casualties as a result of the coalition strikes. Other figures are circulating: the coalition announces 55 victims. But in July alone, Amnesty denounced a bombardment in Syria, where there were 56 victims, including 11 children, just about a bombardment. These coalition figures are therefore not credible. What is the country-by-country distribution of these civilian casualties? How many civilian casualties did Belgium cause? Transparency on the Belgian strikes seems to me more than necessary, otherwise we will lose our credibility. If Russian claims are really a lie, how can Belgium defend itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems as if the Cold War is a little back, with the propaganda battle being waged from Moscow. The accusation from Russia is, of course, grotesque and shameless. It is precisely the country that bombs men, women and children without scruples, which burns up a city like Aleppo and which has at least 3,500 civilian deaths on its conscience, that is a bit of a lesson to us here. We ask you for a firm response. You gave it to me. Our group supports you from the opposition as one man. However, Belgium is putting itself in trouble, because we are secretive about what we are doing in Syria. Who or what are we bombing, with which planes, when and how many? In fact, these things illustrate the back room politics, in which our defence is still too much. Countries such as Britain, Canada and the United States, NATO Member States, are much more transparent than their public opinion. The NGO Airwars recently demonstrated this in a report. Belgium is the least transparent country in terms of its military operations. Bahrain alone is doing even worse than Belgium. In Parliament, you give information behind closed doors. It is not about the individual flight schedules of our F-16 aircraft; that is what I would like to say. However, it is not enough to provide information behind closed doors. In a modern democracy, public opinion, the taxpayer, is at least entitled to the information that citizens of Great Britain, Canada and the United States receive. Mr Vandeput, are you prepared to change that closed policy you are pursuing on defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, together with the Minister of Defence, I strongly denied the allegations made by the Russian media and by the spokesperson of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs about an alleged air attack by the Belgian Air Force on the village of Hassadjek in the region of Aleppo on the night of 17 to 18 October 2016. I repeat that on the basis of information from the Defence Department, there was no Belgian Air Force aircraft operating in the province of Aleppo during that specific period. The accusations are completely unfounded and unproven. Moreover, Russia has not brought forward any verifiable evidence to support its story. The Russian ambassador was summoned today by my services, at the level of the ambassador in charge of the geographical service, in charge of our relations with Russia. In the presence of members of my cabinet and of the Secretary of Defense's cabinet, yesterday's joint statement was issued and explained to the Russians in order to deny any involvement in the incident. On our side, we added that Belgium regretted that Russia did not bother to verify its findings with us in advance, but simply released the accusation through the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence on the media. This practice, which Belgium is trying to discredit internally and internationally and which clearly has different intentions, was severely condemned. Belgium is defending itself and will continue to defend itself against the false accusations which were asked to be withdrawn. I received a question about the Ambassador's response. The conversation lasted an hour and was rather disappointing. As expected, no evidence was provided that would support the Russian accusations, despite the Russian ambassador's claims that the Russian military in Syria have the means to carry out air operations over the entire Syrian territory. The Russian ambassador has also tried to undermine the coalition's unity against Daesh by making accusations against other partners. I see that as an attempt to put our own collateral damage in a better light. We remain in touch with Russia and I will send the same message to my colleague Sergey Lavrov. Mr Crusnière, you will excuse me, given the time allotted, I will not repeat the reminder of all the actions we are taking in Syria or Iraq on the various plans of the three Ds that you have recalled. I spoke yesterday with my Iraqi colleague about the situation in and around Mosul. I recall that we are present in the military coalition; perhaps the Minister of Defence will say more. We are also present in the desire to rebuild all the liberated areas. Belgium is already participating in the various funds in this field. Finally, we are present in the humanitarian field and in the fight against impunity; you know this in particular through contacts that have taken place in this Parliament with the Yezidi community – I am thinking of Nadia Murad who was received and with whom we again worked in New York in September. At the moment, on Aleppo, the European Union is very clear. By precisely naming Russia, it clearly called for a halt to the bombings. Since Tuesday, information has been circulating about a possible cessation of the bombings. In that context, the priority was indeed to go towards humanitarian aid, since infrastructure had been heavily hit, including hospitals, and there had probably been hundreds of victims. We very much hope that the ceasefire will be extended more widely and that through it we can not only intervene humanitarianly, but also relaunch political solutions. The contacts in Lausanne were inconclusive. Last night, in Berlin, contacts were held between Russian President Putin, French President François Hollande and Chancellor Merkel to increase pressure on Russia. All means of pressure have been considered. I would remind you that Belgium is involved in military, humanitarian operations, reconstruction work, the fight against impunity, but also, of course and above all, in the search for a political solution. Only a political solution will put an end to this type of conflict. For the rest, I repeat, contacts have taken place with the Russian ambassador; I will send the same message to my colleague Sergey Lavrov. This morning, we did not receive any evidence – a fortiori, it seems obvious to me, it was impossible to provide – of an intervention by Belgium as denounced, since the Minister of Defence had the opportunity, on the basis of the elements from his department to demonstrate that we were not present around or above Aleppo at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr van der Maelen on being involved in Russia's policy here. From the moment I speak, there are so-called radar images available that would demonstrate the presence of our F-16 spacecraft. I repeat that our F-16 people were not in the area at the time of that deliberate attack. I can tell you more, during the meeting with the Foreign Office this morning, the Russian ambassador was clearly asked to provide the evidence. He failed to provide evidence at that time. Let me be very clear about that. People who prefer to believe Twitter or other media, they do. I tell you that we were not there. Then I come to the second point of the questions. I am asked how I will refute the fact that we would have been there. Well, of course it's hard to prove that they haven't been anywhere. However, I can tell you that I have no lessons from anyone in terms of transparency. The questioners, or at least some of them, are on the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign shipments. They know that I provide there all the information that is asked of me, up to and including images and such more as they are asked of. I would therefore like to make it clear that I believe that the questioners should ask themselves questions when they are represented here in Parliament. If we, as representatives of the people, no longer believe that we are here on behalf of our people, then I wonder what we are still doing here. If it is not enough for you to receive the information on behalf of your constituents and to be able to distill your actions further, then I think we have a problem. I'm rounding up. We do not have the habit of communicating concretely about each strike or attack. We do that for security reasons. We do this because we do not believe that our safety is to the benefit of any badass or whatever. I see no reason to change that. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have asked the services of the Chamber to convene as soon as possible the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign shipments in order to provide clarity and also proof, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u10	Mr President, Minister, we have a serious problem. I've heard from you that there's a press release. I just took my tablet and, indeed, Russia insists that it was Belgian aircraft that bombed. They claim to have radar footage showing that the planes took off in Jordan and were refueled in the air by the United States. Still, Minister, I'm on your side. Nevertheless, this creates a major problem for our country. I may believe it if you say on your honour that there are no Belgian aircraft involved. Here in this Chamber, all Members will believe that. But there are, unfortunately, people out there who are not going to believe that and they will continue to think that we are responsible. I repeat my question, Minister: in the interests and in order to protect our own internal security, proof as soon as possible that Belgium has nothing to do with it. I will say more, Minister. If only you had listened to Mr Top, who asked you to be transparent in the short term about when, where and by what means we are intervening in Syria and Iraq, as the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands have done before the recess. The Netherlands cannot have the problem we now have, because less than a few hours after an attack is on the website of the Ministry of Defence of the Netherlands where and when aircraft have been active on that day. You refuse to do so, and that gives you the opportunity, as far as I am concerned, to hear false accusations from Russia. If you offered more transparency, we would not have this problem and security in our country would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u11	Ministers, thank you for your answers. In order to make this strike clear, we must indeed convene the Monitoring Committee for Missions Abroad. Mr President, the chairman of this committee is not here, but you have the power to convene this meeting and I ask you to do so as soon as possible. We are at a turning point in this conflict, but I remind you that peace is not decreed, it is built. The Bush approach or the current situation in Libya must also serve as a lesson, but that is no reason not to act, always in accordance with international law. The impunity of the Assad regime cannot be an option for Belgian and European diplomacy either, as you said, Minister. In all cases, the consequences for civilians and refugees must also be integrated into Belgian action. I am still calling for Belgium to be involved in a comprehensive solution and to take all measures in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u12	Mr President, Ministers, thank you for the answer. Mr Foreign Minister, I think we need to be very clear on this issue, we need to send a strong signal to Russia that we are not going to accept this. These kinds of incidents could seriously damage our bilateral relations. This will, of course, also affect our efforts, as well as those of fellow Members of this House, in the fight against Daesh. However, Mr Foreign Minister, we must also keep the dialogue with Russia open, because everyone knows that we need Russia in order to resolve the conflict in Syria. Mr Van der Maelen, you are here asking the Minister of Defence to prove where our F-16 people have not been. That may be a socialist logic, but that is not ordinary and healthy logic. Transparency, yes, there must always be transparency, but that transparency, Mr De Vriendt, is given in the committee responsible for monitoring foreign shipments. You are not represented there yourself, but your group is represented there, Mr Hellings is always there. I would say talk to your colleague, because that is where all the information is exchanged. With regard to the Airwars report, you know that we will soon have an exchange of views with the committee on these findings and we will, of course, exchange all information there. You know the law forbids the spread of sensitive information. We are bound by the law, and I assume you also want to respect the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your clear answer. Russia's lies must stop. You must do everything in your power, use all the political levers to ensure that these kinds of lies, discrediting the defence and our military, cease. I am satisfied with your firm language and I look forward to the committee responsible for the follow-up of the foreign shipments, where I hope to be able to obtain the necessary material to support your statement. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I must say something. Forgive me. Something is happening in which the Belgian army is not involved. We agree on that. Then President Putin, whose lessons we do not have to learn, says that it was the Belgians, Belgian F-16 Tunisians. We are then told here: no, they were not Belgians, we examined all the material and the Belgian military were not active at the time. Who do you believe now? What else should the Minister make public? You want him to throw everything on the table? Should he show which F-16 pilot was true at what time? I think the safety of the pilots is more important. I'll come to my decision. We believe more in our defense than in the Russians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u14	Ministers, you are telling us that it is not possible to prove what does not exist. That's why you're going to have to do it, because at 2:32 p.m., while you were answering, Russia showed radar images of our Belgian F-16s. Of course you have to take these images with all the reserves, but they will force you to lead the battle of evidence. You'll be forced to do that. You can't escape. More fundamentally, the best way to avoid civilian casualties is not to intervene. [[Brouhahaha]] In 2014, the PTB was the only one to vote against military intervention in Iraq and Syria. Why? Because it's counterproductive, as you can see. Since the 1991 Gulf War, 25 years ago, it's chaos. These interventions create chaos, and to resolve it, new interventions are being made that cause more chaos. When are you going to make a critical assessment of this policy? When are you going to seek political rather than military solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to play party politics on this, are we? We're not gonna let the Russians divide us up, are we? We're not gonna fall into the trap that Russia set up for us, are we? We hear today that Russia continues to repeat the accusations. The image of our country is being smeared. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there is simply no alternative but to make that information public without compromising the security of our military. If countries like the US, Great Britain and Canada can do that, so can Belgium. We can follow a path of common sense by creating openness here, leaving aside all party political games and any internal conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u16	Minister, Belgian exports are sometimes spoken of. You know that there is no such thing, because 83% of exports come from Flanders. As far as Canada is concerned, that is even 90%. What do we see now? We see Wallonia locking up Flanders. That's how it works in Belgium: locks, locks, locks. Who aren't we seeing? We have a Secretary of State for Foreign Trade. Mr De Crem actually had a power suddenly. He could have tried to negotiate, but we don't see Mr De Crem. What do I hear? I hear Voka, once the boss of the N-VA, wants to step outside the Constitution. [[Tumult]] Voka wants to go outside the Constitution, but we do not hear the N-VA. I belong to Open Vld Mrs Rutten, Mr Dewael and Mr De Gucht all say that they want to go outside the Constitution. Mrs Wouters and I think it is wonderful how quickly we are following people who want to leave the Constitution. Who am I not hearing? The Brussels-Capital Region, I don't hear about that. We do not agree and we pretend that the problem does not exist there, but they actually have to approve it. I will give you the answer to my question first. What can you do? Nothing, there's nothing you can do. Just because Belgium doesn't work, and you know that, but I'll ask you anyway, because I want to hear your opinion. What are you gonna do? What can you do? Will you have Flanders locked? What is the state of the negotiations? Is there only darkness left or do you still see light at the end of the tunnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u17	Mr President, Mr Minister, I say this at the outset, contrary to what has happened in some previous exchanges, I am not going to argue with my socialist comrades today. Why? Simply because the question that I am now asking, which has already been developed, is extremely important. Minister, you know that, and we all know that. I'm a former Walloon MP. I am very committed to Wallonia and its economic development, to jobs and to Walloon workers. I know that in this House we all want to develop the economy in our country, regardless of the region. Mr Minister, this evening, an important summit on the European Union's trade policy will meet and we would like to ask you what is still possible to do to ensure that the position taken by the Walloon Region on this very important issue is changed. CETA is not TTIP. The TTIP is not mature; we have said so and our group has tabled a resolution that has been supported by the majority to set conditions. On the other hand, CETA is very advanced and we sincerely believe that it must be agreed for CETA. We must negotiate, but we must not block this extremely important issue for economic recovery and economic activity in both Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. To this I would add one extremely important element: that the blocking of this dossier would perhaps take place at one of the worst times for the European Union, which is currently in difficulty. It would give the impression that it is not capable of negotiating, while it represents a market of more than 530 million inhabitants in the face of a country that represents some 35 million people and which I respect, which is an ally, a fundamental partner of the international Francophonie for a very long time. Minister, we must do everything we can to reach an agreement. I look forward to your answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u18	Mr Vuye, first of all, I will respect the law. I have always said to my fellow Members at European level that I respect the division of powers. It was approved in Chamber and Senate in 1993. I was against it then. Anyway, those rules are there now, and we have to follow the law. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, Mr Miller, CETA is an agreement whose negotiations started in 2009 on the basis of a mandate given to the Commission unanimously by the European Council. The mandate was adapted, always unanimously, in 2011. The negotiations ended in 2014, with the publication of the texts on the European Commission's website. Everyone was able to get to know about it. That is the reminder of the facts! All this took place mainly under the previous legislature. Today, what have we done to try to reach an agreement? First, an interpretative declaration is submitted by the Commission and Canada. At an informal meeting of trade ministers in Bratislava, I asked that this declaration have legal force, which is now confirmed by the Commission and Canada. We really have a very strong interpretation of the treaty. And then we had a meeting this week of trade ministers. Again, for six hours, the Council met to provide further clarification through statements by the Council, the Commission and the Member States. At the end of the Trade Council meeting this Tuesday in Luxembourg, 27 Member States voted in favour of CETA unequivocally. I also had the opportunity to make it clear to my colleagues that in fact we were 27.5 or 27.6 in view of the distribution of competences in Belgium. In Belgium, as you know, the Federal Government and the Flemish Government have expressed their support for the text. What have we been doing since then to try to make things even better? Yesterday I had a meeting of more than two hours with Minister-President Paul Magnette and European Commissioner Cecilia Malmström on the four points on which the Walloon government was asking for clarification. We have asked the Commission to prepare additional texts, to adapt these texts according to the requests of the Walloon Region. The Commission has sent additional texts within a short period of time. We're going to keep working. I will also see my Canadian colleagues earlier. They want to move forward. And of course, all this will be on the table at the European Council. I would simply say that we have done everything possible to address the concerns of several sectors, some of which are legitimate. I am thinking in particular of the agricultural sector, for which it has been reiterated that it is not a question of liberalisation of the sector, but of specific quotas for exports and imports. To take the example of beef, Canada will be able to export the equivalent of 0.6% of the European market and provided that it meets European standards – no hormone meat – to take only this example. We have done so and some legitimate requests have been transmitted to us. We will now try to demonstrate that if we have been able to convince 27 states and the Flemish Region in Belgium, it must be possible to reassure everyone on the content of what remains in my view the best treaty ever concluded by the European Union with regard to external trade. I will conclude by telling you that times are changing. I have sometimes found myself in situations of fourteen to one when we were fifteen in the Union or twenty-seven to one when we became twenty-eight, but I had never had the experience of being part of one! We must realize what this means for our country in the European process. We have always argued to facilitate decision-making, particularly by qualified majorities. Here, when such a large majority in Europe is pronounced, we must try to convince those who are still reluctant. That's what we've been doing in the last few days and nights. You know that it is a habit in Belgium to work at night if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u19	If I sum up briefly, Minister, you are going to apply a law which you say you voted against in 1993. That is correct, but in 2001 this power was greatly deepened with the Verhofstadt Government and you voted in favour. So you're actually applying a law that you've passed along with you. The problem is structural. The problem is that Europe does not recognise the internal constitutional structures of the Member States. Europe must become a Europe of the regions. The problem is also structural within Belgium. Belgium can only work if Flanders and Wallonia can both join the European negotiating table independently. That's gotta be the stakes. I do not think that ten years of Community standstill provides an answer to such a problem. Now there's CETA and very soon TTIP will follow. The problem is simply structural and it deserves a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u20	I thank the Minister for his response and for his commitment to a positive solution to this issue, which is extremely important for Flanders, for Brussels, for Wallonia and for Europe. Let me add an important element! I want to talk about everything that concerns the World Trade Organisation, through a set of regulations that we must achieve in order to protect the rights of citizens and businesses as well as investment. This can only be done through sound, negotiated and accepted agreements. That is why I reiterate my thanks to the Minister on behalf of our group for trying to achieve this first and most important international agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u21	Mr. Minister of Employment, your economic income is not working. The employment rate stagnates, tax revenues do not return. And we know, in those cases, who you make pay for the crisis and the bill. Your targets are those who will no longer have access to medical homes, who will have to pay more for their medicines, who will have to return to work regardless of their condition and consequences. It is women who will no longer have such easy access to leave before childbirth, who will be subject to a further reform of the pension calculation which will penalize them very strongly. It is the young people, the future of our society, who will also be affected. We were aware of the measures taken by the Di Rupo government, and then by the Michel government, with regard to the integration allowance. It is tens of thousands of young people who are now without resources, dependent on their families or the CPAS. And now you have invented the degression of the minimum wage for young workers under 21 years of age. Mr Peeters, what do you have against young people? Colleagues of the majority, what do you all have against young workers? Mr. Minister of Employment, what do you have against young people? If I look at the document you sent to Europe this Monday, I see a budget line of EUR 20 million. This line will save the federal state €20 million. You're trying to make us believe it won't have any impact. Now, these 20 million are likely to fall from the sky. You must be clear, you haven't been on Monday, I'm asking you again. Where does the EUR 20 million in the budget for the European Union come from? What will be the impact, in terms of wages, on young people? How can a minimum gross wage of 1 255 euros, that of a worker aged 19 years after your reform, lead to a net wage of 1,400 euros, the current minimum wage? Above all, since social benefits are calculated on the basis of gross wages, what will be the impact on unemployment benefits, on the pensions of these workers, of this reform that you are proposing to us. You must be clear. Young people have the right to know, Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u22	Mr Gilkinet, you asked in Dutch. I will answer in Dutch. What do we have against the young? Nothing, on the contrary, we are doing everything we can to help young people get a job as quickly as possible. Mr Gilkinet, we have decided to reduce the minimum gross wage for young workers in order to reduce costs for employers. This is a very important step. We believe that we will be able to help young people get a job faster. As you ask, I will repeat what the Prime Minister said in response to his statement, namely that the government will neutralize the impact of reducing the gross wage of young people and ensure that the net wage of young people is not reduced. The Prime Minister, myself and the whole government want to do everything in their power to organise it in this way. You ask how this has been calculated. We have asked for a simulation from the Planning Bureau, which says that the reduction in gross wage costs will create a thousand new jobs, a reduction in the cost of social security and an increase in tax and parafiscal revenues, because these young people will have a job faster. It is true that social benefits are calculated on gross wages, but the minimum benefits will have a zero or very limited impact, as the minimum benefits remain guaranteed. I believe it is clear that the measure, which will create thousands of jobs, is worthwhile and that the measure will enable young people to develop their careers and their future. They will be able to use them and employers will be encouraged to give young people a job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u23	Minister for Employment, the way you look after the sick, young people and women is simply unbearable! You say you want to do their good. I calculated the impact of this measure. Consider, for example, an unemployment benefit received by a young person who had worked between the ages of 16 and 18 and who would be unemployed. It is necessary to count a little more than 150 euros for people who earn less than 1,000 euros. So that's taking care of the young, minister? We do not have the same idea of solidarity. Your back effects, we've known them since this majority was formed. They don't work. In this case, the 20 million euros you have estimated are, in my view, savings on young people's backs. Your government is unfair and ineffective. You're trying to cross reality and it's all the more serious. You have to try to be more honest. The government that will leave us behind, Mr. Minister of Employment, is the one that will speak true and offer prospects and hope. All the opposite of your action, in short!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u24	Minister, following the debate on whether or not to use our F-16s over Aleppo, I had the impression that our enemy is Russia, and no longer Islamic State. In the context of this question, I would like to reassure you that my enemy is the leader of ISIS, Abu al-Baghdadi, and not Vladimir Putin, who seems to me to be an ally, if I may say so, but quite aside. In Die Welt, European Commissioner for Security King stated that the recapture of Mosul, in Iraq, could lead to the return of many violent IS fighters. In his view, that is a very serious threat. You responded in a number of Flemish newspapers with the announcement that you do not have any indications that the offensive in Mosul poses a concrete threat. Minister, violence is in Islam's DNA. In Mosul alone, IS has 2 500 European fighters. Recently a video of Belgian IS-timers appeared from Mosul to threaten us here. We know that in Mosul Belgians are riding on the side of ISIS. To say that there is no threat is naive and even dangerous to me. I would also like to say that yesterday ISIS announced that it is calling for Europe to be attacked, by all means, in retaliation for the coalition's attack on Mosul. That means, Minister, that you must not try to minimize or wipe out the problems, in the hope of giving the people a false sense of security. We must be very alert and very ready and we must be aware that there can be another attack in our country at any time. What measures are you taking? Will you close the borders for new refugees, asylum seekers and migrants coming from that region? You know that, in the end, via the flow of migrants, the IS fighters, too, have been shown to enter our country countless times. What measures will you take now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u25	Mr President, Minister, international news suggests that Mosul will be released from the Islamic State following an unprecedented military offensive. We hope so. If this city in northern Iraq, which is the fiefdom of the Daesh fighters, falls, the European Security Commissioner fears an influx of jihadists to Europe to deal with it. Minister, my questions will be very simple. Have specific controls been planned at European level? If so, which ones? If not, why? Finally, at the level of Belgium, given that our services are already very busy trying to curb the phenomenon, what measures do you intend to take to anticipate this problem this time, which will have a serious impact on the safety of our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dewinter, first of all I would like to say that I do not think I have ever minimized the problem or the challenge. However, I think I have said, as I do, what our intelligence services have seen moving. That's a difference. I have also seen the European Commissioner's analysis, and I have checked it against what our services see in that regard. Everyone is afraid of movements from Syria or Iraq to our region. The only thing I have said in this connection is that we do not yet see such movements at the moment, as we speak. Our services are in supreme state of alertness. International contacts have been established. The international exchange of information with other intelligence services is about to take place. We are watching closely, almost minute by minute, whether that movement from Syria or Iraq, which seems logical as a result of the events, will begin. Of course, we are fighting this for the moment when that movement would begin. At national level, we have proved, with Secretary of State Francken, that we can cope with a new flow of refugees. We are dealing with this in a decent way, humanely where necessary and hard where it should be. We have also proven that screenings are being carried out to check whether there are people in the refugee stream with a terrorist intention. In this context, I can say that a protocol was concluded between the police and the Foreign Office a few days ago, so that DVZ can immediately check in all police databases and international signals whether there is an indication of terrorist intentions when considering an asylum procedure or when receiving a file without having to call on the police. So that means a step forward. Mr Carcaci, as regards international cooperation, there are platforms for the exchange of information between security services. In addition, in the Schengen Information System, all data are included, which means that control at the external border will be exercised over jihadist intentions, terrorist intentions. It is clear that everything depends on the staff member on duty, but the databases are up-to-date and we have all the information that allows these in-depth controls on these activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u27	Minister, you are a voluntarist, I know that, and that is also apparent from your answer. We have already seen a lot of things, such as the attacks in Paris where the IS fighters came from Brussels and entered our country via the asylum flow, the attack in Brussels with the same scenario, and recently the jihadist who came to court this week, who was hiding in Brussels for three years and who had also entered our country via the asylum flow. All these IS fighters who, by shrinking the territory of the Caliphate in Iraq and Syria, will leave their country and will come here, will do so through the international migration flow, through the path of illegality and even through the way of legal migration. We must be aware of this. I continue to call for and will do so in the future to close the borders for those coming from the other side of the Mediterranean. There is no other effective, better or more efficient means than to deny them access to our country and to Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. To govern, they say, is to predict. There is, therefore, reason to anticipate situations. That's your role as minister. We must not wait for a disaster to begin to think about the problem and consider solutions. So, wait, let's see and hope!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I come back to yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Interior, where we asked a number of mixed questions about Calais and illegal transit migrants. In February many of the tent camps in Calais were evacuated, but in the meantime a number have been added. The result is that again about nine thousand people would be staying in the tent camp of Calais, all for one purpose, in particular leaving France as soon as possible and arriving in Great Britain. Yesterday you said that the French Prefect had announced on 22 September that France would inform Belgium about the timing and preparation of the evacuation of the Calais jungle. Meanwhile, the information has changed and you know that the French will clear the tent camp on Monday. Based on this information, you have decided to send 50 additional policemen to the border area from Saturday and from Monday 120. We are pleased that you are reacting firmly and well to the announcement by France. However, the figures are alarming. Last week, District Attorney Frank Demeester also called the alarm bell. Between January and September 2015, approximately 1 070 irregular foreigners were found in West Flanders, while 6 000 were found this year over the same period, three times as many. We must also bear in mind that illegal migrants will leave the Calais tent camps. That concern is present, not only in the majority but across all party boundaries. Your rapid response has shown that we are prepared and that we strongly advise the illegal transit migrants not to come to Belgium. Minister, I have two questions. The police zones West Coast and Bruges are of course most directly involved, but in what way will you roll out the police deployments throughout the province of West Flanders and possibly also over the province of Hainaut? Using police to stop and arrest illegals is a good thing, but is that enough? Are DVZ and the other services involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u30	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, the Calais dossier evolves from day to day, sometimes even from hour to hour, and remains topical. Let us hope that at this time next week the decommissioning has been successful, so that we do not have to intervene again on this issue. I really hope so. What makes the problem so difficult? Firstly, there is the large number of inhabitants of the jungle, more than ten thousand people. In addition, there is also the large number of unaccompanied minors, over a thousand. Last week it was said that a solution had to be found for this group. France has worked on this and has now brought a large number of minors who have family in Britain there. The great unknown is how many inhabitants of the Calais jungle will be willing to move to the centres that France has arranged. How many of these people cling to the will to reach the promised country, Great Britain? In addition, the numerous presence and influence of smugglers in the camp also plays a role. Today's news is the deployment of 120 additional police officers from Saturday to avoid illegal camps or no-go zones in Belgium. The committee chairman also mentioned an average of 538 interceptions per month in our province of West Flanders over the past six months, which is a high figure. Figures also appeared in the press. About a thousand people would have disappeared from the camp, according to the Chief Constable of the West Coast Zone, who plays an important role in cooperation with France. I think this is disturbing news. I therefore believe that patrols should be deployed not only at the border but along the entire border region. I have two questions for you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. First of all, who will do the work on the ground? The solidarity between the West Flemish police forces is good, but the question is whether the 120 additional policemen come from the federal police or perhaps also from local areas from other provinces under the coat rack of the HyCap? Can you clarify that? Secondly, will they be deployed as mobile brigades on the entire site or only on the border?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have been informed by the French authorities for some time now that it intends to dismantle the jungle, the Calais camp. It is a dismantling in the sense that it wants to transfer the many thousands of people sitting there to other places throughout the territory. Of course, we take account of the fact that, in the case of this decommissioning, a number of people, I will not say, choose eggs for their money, but flee because they do not want to experience this relocation in France. We are aware of the intention of those involved, and that is not asylum applications in France or Belgium, but it is reaching the United Kingdom. We therefore take into account that they can go towards Zeebrugge or other ports on the Belgian coast. That is why we are, firstly, in close contact with the French authorities, to monitor the operations precisely as soon as it undertakes to do so. Secondly, we have worked out a number of scenarios to deal with them. In any case, every scenario means that we are going to develop more capacity. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, we are not going to put the units at the border, but to move all over the territory of West Flanders and also in Hainaut. Those units are being deployed where we might find illegals. The fact that the figures are so high also indicates that the police work is paying off. We pick up the illegals and we do what we have to do in that area. I would also like to take this opportunity once again to thank the police for their daily efforts in, once again, difficult circumstances. To answer your specific questions, these 120 men are mainly from the federal reserve but also from the provincial reserves of West and East Flanders. The HyCap will also have to be used. It is clear that if the pressure is in West Flanders, we have to get HyCap capacity elsewhere. That seems pretty obvious to me, otherwise the dog will follow his tail. Measures are therefore being taken. We will monitor the situation day after day to see whether the measures taken are adequate. As I have done before from this chair, I am committed to the fact that there will be no tent camps or no-go zones in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u32	Minister, a few years ago there was also an important number of illegal transit migrants in Ostend. The police chief then declared, in 2012, that the police had to mop with the crane open. We must therefore make sure that we have learned enough from the experience of 2012 and the period before that. However, I am concerned about the large numbers of people who could try to come here, especially when we find that these illegal transit migrants have already shown that they can work very three-fold and do not even shy away from the violence, just to reach England. It is our duty to respond well and quickly. You have pointed out that we cannot accept the creation of tent camps here. However, we do not think it is acceptable that a historical lax policy, which was pursued in France, where these tent camps were tolerated, has ensured that people could not be led to asylum procedures. On the other hand, these burdens are being transferred here, to our country. Finally, I would like to make one clear point. At the moment I see a very good cooperation between your services and the services of the West Flemish provincial governor. I welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u33	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your efficient and rigorous approach to the dossier in the interests of our province. Together with you, we hope that the additional capacity will be temporary and will remain exceptional. Open Vld considers it important that the intercepted transmigrants are immediately registered and that fingerprints are taken immediately. Persons wishing to apply for asylum must be able to be served by DVZ immediately. Those who do not wish to apply for asylum in our country must be ordered to leave the territory immediately. We believe that only such a firm approach can be successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u34	Madam Minister, we have heard that you have made the decision not to recognise new district health centres from 2017. Worse still, we are also informed that the budget for the neighbourhood centres will be reduced by 5% or EUR 7 million. My party does not understand such a decision. We just think that there are many needs in the district health centres. It's just the patients who find it hardest to access medicine. It is precisely the patients who do not have enough money for quality health care, who seek help at those centres. The Labour Party is very active in the centers of Medicine for the People, where we offer 25 000 patients free of charge high-quality interdisciplinary medicine every day. I do not understand the decision to stop supporting health centres and to stop their expansion in the future. You're saying that the expenses are getting out of hand. The centres would be more expensive and more expensive. You give the impression that the district health centres are more expensive. In 2008, there was a report from the Federal Knowledge Centre analysing the difference between costs in traditional medical practice and costs in district health centres, which are reimbursed on a flat-rate basis. The conclusions of that report are very clear. On the control of expenditure, the report states: "The care expenses borne by the RIZIV are equivalent in both systems. Expenditure on the patient is less high in the flat-rate system. After all, patients who are registered on a flat-rate basis do not pay brake fees in the first line and also pay less brake fees and supplements in the second line, as they use less of this second-line care and consume more generic medicines." The report clearly concludes that district health centres are the most efficient way of ensuring healthcare in Belgium, not only in terms of quality but also in terms of costs. What are you doing today, Madam Secretary, and, by way of enlargement, the whole government? You cut into expenses that people need most. It is a symbol act of the government: always gifts for the rich but nothing for those who need it. Madam Secretary, when will you come back to the decision so that medicine would be accessible to everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u35	Madam Minister, the recognition of medical homes is being blocked and 7 million is being saved on the back of the most vulnerable in our society. Only on the Dutch-speaking side and only under the largest dome of the district health centres are about eight centres in the start-up phase plus a number that has plans in that direction, including in our own Flemish-Brabant, Madame Minister. Apparently, three of them were still just in time to apply for their recognition, so that they can start on 1 January. The others will be queued up. I'm guessing that means at least ten thousand potential patients. In many cases, the centres are also supported by cities, municipalities and provinces. That makes sense. They feel the need of the inhabitants and today they also ring the bell. We all read that this morning. Madam Minister, the quality of care is better or more or less the same as that of the general practitioner. Prevention is better and they point far less towards the second line, because they themselves work multidisciplinaryly. I'm not saying all that; that's what health economists conclude in different studies and the Knowledge Centre. Efficiency is one of your criteria. What do you have to do to make it so difficult for the district health centers? I don't understand. You see the most accessible and cheap care, both for the most vulnerable patient and for the government. I'd like to know why, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u36	Madam Minister, the district health centres are accessible and innovative. They are known for this even abroad. They are almost an export product. They are also unique in their model of cooperation. General practitioners, nurses, physiotherapists, psychologists and social workers, all work together in that model. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that the care they provide is excellent. The focus is on prevention and they have a wide reach for disadvantaged patients. However, by deciding to save 7 million, 26 planned district health centres, which are in the starting blocks, will not be able to start up. Madam Secretary, where is your promise that your pockets would have been sewn? Where's your promise that the patient wouldn't feel the savings? This is not about precision work with a scalpel, to say it in medical terms. It's more like the blunt force of an amputation. Madam Secretary, I think that is a conservative saving. You are slowing down innovation in the sector and you are touching vulnerable patients. I come to my questions, which are similar to those of my fellow Members. Madam Secretary, why the hell are you stopping the start-up of the recognition of district health centres? How can you make it hard today that you don't hit the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u37	Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, thank you for your questions. The medical homes have their function in health care and indeed work multidisciplinaryly for a weaker group. But also the medical homes must deal with the means as effectively as possible. Since it is a budget of EUR 150 million, it is no surprise that we are also carrying out a policy evaluation to see how and where that large sum is spent. It is actually good governance to check where public money is spent and what the result is for patients. We did that to the guards, and now we're doing it to the medical homes. In recent years, the cost of medical homes has increased by more than 10% per year. Now is the time for an evaluation. We are indeed planning savings of 7 million, but that is on 18 million growth. That means we're still giving 11 million more than last year. You can see this in the table: the budget increases by 11 million. That medical homes would be abolished or that we wouldn't spend any more money on them, so there's nothing to it. The medical homes don't go backwards, as one makes appear. The new initiatives for which the dossier has already been submitted to the RIZIV before 18 October will be able to start as usual on 1 January. The committee, the permanent working group on Medical Houses at the RIZIV, has to check and continue to do its work. We look at the cost structure of the medical homes and compare them. The houses that work well, like the guards, have nothing to fear. So that's actually good governance, and you blame me for that. Dank u!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u38	Madam Minister, I think you have very well reflected your liberal vision of access to medicine in Belgium. It's really amazing! Some solutions are successful in neighbourhoods, both in terms of the effectiveness and quality of medicine, with multidisciplinary methods. People are happy with the services offered by medical homes. And we have a minister who says he has to check and cut in all his budgets, ignore whether it is effective; and she dares to say that his actions do not affect the patient. It's crazy about communication! You say it costs more and more. But it's normal: the solution is more and more successful! We have increased from 140,000 to 360,000 patients enrolled in a medical home. Of course, this increases in view of the quality of care provided. Minister, you want to pretend to be a social minister. But people in the neighborhoods, as a result of your decisions, will no longer have access to medical homes. The idea was to open some 20 medical homes in their neighbourhoods. You're supporting this two-speed medicine. Those who can afford medicine will pay for it and those who need to go to a medical home will not be able to go there. You say, "I only cut at the bistouri, I only cut at the scalpel." I don't know if you've ever tried, colleagues, but with a scalpel, you can already cut a hand or an arm. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, not to cut off at all, because access to medicine must be guaranteed to everyone and not only to the richest in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u39	Madam Minister, of course the costs are increasing, because more and more people are using them. There are also more and more people vulnerable in our society. The fact that costs are increasing is therefore the logic itself. On that point, I fully agree with my colleague. Of course they get hit. They can't start! You're calling it "do not get hit." Both the umbrella of the district health centres and some health insurance funds suggest that the study of the Knowledge Centre be repeated. It will then become clear that the district health centres are both economically efficient and qualitatively up-to-date. We have seen this before, because studies have already been carried out. Above all, nothing needs to be put on hold. This seems to me to be a much better way of doing things than at present, once again on the back of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u40	Madam Minister, if you suspect a lack of good governance or abuse, then I think you should carry out targeted checks, as you do in other health care institutions. This does not mean that you need to examine an entire sector, which works very well and to which the KCE report gives good points. It is something that works well in its entirety and is innovative, but you save on that. So you're actually telling people to draw their plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, the last time I asked you about the recognition of psychomotorism as a paramedical profession, you mentioned a first opinion of the National Council of Paramedical Professions from 2013 which was unfavourable. It was found that the acts claimed by psychomotricians come within the competence of other specializations: kinesitherapy but also paramedical professions such as logopedia, occupational therapy and soon clinical orthopedagogy. That is, in fact, the situation in the north of the country, but not in the south, Madam Minister. The profession of psychomotrician has existed in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation for more than 25 years. It exists in France and in other European countries such as Italy and Spain. We have been participating in the European Psychomotority Forum since 1995. It's not nothing! In the south of the country, training in psychomotorism has been available in higher education since 1980. Since 2012 – I don't know if I'm being listened to; don't I bother you too much? – it is a bachelor's degree in its own right, designed in line with the minimum foundation defined by the European Forum. There have already been 450 graduates and 900 students are currently in training. You were still waiting for an additional opinion. The latter is now formalized. He's negative. As a result, psychomotricians have to be confined to education, welfare and social assistance. We hear that you have sent a letter to Minister Marcourt. Minister, how did the National Council of Paramedical Professions give reasons for its opinion? Is it true that it does not include a representative of psychomotricians? Can you inform us of the contents of the letter addressed to Mr Marcourt? Are there any transitional provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u42	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I will try to get my voice on because I have a problem with the microphone. We don't hear anything in the room, unless it's because we're getting older! Beyond the figures and the situation presented by Mrs Caprasse, I would first like to ask you a first question. What are the health professions that have actually been recognized before there are attempts and evolving trainings? There aren't many of them, minister. Taking into account training that is then done to recognize new professions is a logical and respectful process towards those who organize and follow these trainings. But beyond that, did you not begin, on 28 September 2016, a reform of Royal Decree No. 78, i.e. a reform of the health professions. Yes, you did. You are presenting us with this reform, saying that there will be a change in who will take what action. You insist on improving multidisciplinarity between professionals. You're saying we're going to allow for multi-stakeholder benefit requirements around the same patient and you're announcing ten new professions to be recognized. But ten days later, you definitively refuse to recognize psychomotorism and psychomotorists. You're closing the door twice. Minister, do you intend to enrich the health professions of graduates who are also experienced professionals in psychomotorism by agreeing to discover their profession and integrate them into this reflection that will take place? Or will this reform ultimately only be an illusion for these new professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have just simply refused that psychomotorism should be recognized as a paramedical profession. Your political decision takes the future of students and professionals who, already in the field today, do quality work with patients in nursing homes, mental health centres, centres for people with disabilities, to name but a few places. Is it necessary to recall, because that is the peak, that they are paid according to a paramedical scale? Do you know where it is validated? In royal decrees issued by the federal government that do not recognize the profession. It's a little surreal! It's like I'm already hearing you: you're going to fall behind the advice of the National Council of Paramedical Professions. However, this opinion raises several questions. Firstly, because the paramedical professions themselves have validated the introduction of these paramedical studies in the French Community. Secondly, when the National Council issued these positions in 2013 and 2016, its composition was particularly unbalanced in terms of language; that is the least one can say. Practical reality, since that is what matters, minister, is different in the north and south of the country. Of course, some occupational therapists, physiotherapists and logopeds perform this profession thanks to an additional qualification. But in the South, we also have psychomotorists who are recognized as a paramedical profession. Francophones are not isolated in this regard. Several countries, such as France and Switzerland, practiced this way, and that was not the case yesterday. The foundation of their studies is the same as that which exists in us. If I ask you again today, minister, it is not so much to ask you questions, which I will continue to do, but to plead for you to come up with another solution. Not a solution which opposes the Communities, on the contrary: a solution which would allow to take into account the reality of the north and south of the country, namely a double recognition. This would focus on the practice of occupational therapists, physiotherapists and logopeds, but also on the profession as a paramedical profession. This would allow the situation in the north and south of the country to be taken into account and to emerge from the top of the problem created by this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, I obviously join my various colleagues who deplore the statement you made that you will not recognize the profession of psychomotrician. This decision, communicated to Minister Marcourt, which you have not commented on, affects hundreds of recently graduated students, but also several hundred practitioners who practice the art of healing. Madam Minister, in short, I come directly to my questions. Is this non-recognition of psychomotority as a health profession permanent? Have there been any consultations with the Minister of Education, Mr Marcourt, with a view to a more careful re-evaluation of the file, or can we still hope to have any prospects in this regard? What answers are you going to bring to these hundreds of graduate students and psychomotricians whose prospects for the future are greatly changed, if not completely destroyed? Above all, I think we must always be able to question each other. It comes to my mind that a vast dossier drawn up by many actors in the field (students, teachers, administrative staff, professionals, parents, beneficiaries, traineeships) has been sent to you. In particular, it looks at the specificity of psychomotorism in its therapeutic aspects and at the tension of specific acts in relation to other medical practices. Minister, have you been able to read about this? What follow-up do you intend to give?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Besides, this isn't the first time you've talked to me about psychomotorists. Following the demonstrations of students and young graduates in front of my office this summer, they were received; their questions and demands were heard. Most of their questions related to the motivations and organization of studies, which fall within the competence of Mr. Marcourt. I regret that students from educational institutions in the French Community have not been properly informed of their career opportunities in the context of the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions. As you recall, as early as 2013, the National Council of Paramedical Professions had given my predecessor a negative opinion on recognition as a profession in its own right. On 22 September, the National Council issued a new negative opinion on the accreditation of psychomotorism as a new profession of care. He also believes that this discipline is an integral part of the professional skills of logopedes, occupational therapists, orthopaedists and physiotherapists. The arguments were reinforced in this second opinion. Psychomotority interventions are currently being performed in the context of therapies that are part of the exercise of health care, as you mentioned. It is within the competence of the Minister of Public Health to study the potential needs of new professions in health care, before training is provided for the provision of acts, as set out in the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions. An additional care profession should not be created for an area of care that is already part of the work of current health professionals, who are competent and trained to meet these care needs. As I have already indicated, as part of the reform of the legislation on the health care professions, it is important to define the health care professions to rely, above all, on the existing needs of patients, while taking into account existing professions. In the context of this legislation and its amendment, care must be taken not to lose sight of these points of attention. The inclusion of new professions is only possible if there is a real demonstrable need for a sound health care policy. However, training offers opportunities in education, welfare and social assistance, but this is not part of the scope of health care. In a global context, such as crèches, schools, etc., actions reserved for the health professions recognized in the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions may not be carried out by qualified psychomotricians if they do not fulfil the conditions described in the Act. Within the wider framework of well-being, and therefore within the framework of the powers of the Communities, psycho-motricians can find their place there, as is desired by the Communities. As indicated in a previous response, I have communicated my final decision to the minister concerned, Mr.Marcourt, who is in charge of Public Health and Education. Some patients require psychomotor skills, provided that they are therapeutically necessary and therefore prescribed by a physician. We already have adequate health professionals, i.e. logopedes, occupational therapists, orthopaedists, physiotherapists to perform them. This is also reflected in the opinion of the National Council of Paramedical Professions. Therefore, the patient is not affected by this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u46	Madam Minister, I finally note that you take very little account of Europe. This profession exists in other countries. Why should it be banned and punished in Belgium? I don't understand you. You're a doctor; I've been logoped. I asked you again about the logopeds that I'm around today and I can tell you that we don't see the thing at all in the same way as in the north of the country. Everything that's going on in the north of the country is fine. I'm not criticizing him at all. But consider the fact that in the south of the country, we can operate differently. You've taken a position on numerus clausus and psychotherapy. I see you're making a difference between the North and the South. I can't admit it. You say you met the psychomotricians but did you go see what they're doing in the field? Have you spoken with them in practice? It's a great and indispensable job. It would be very reprehensible if you didn't recognize this profession. I ask you to think about it again and to reconsider your position. You have the power to do it, and I'm counting a little on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u47	Minister, psychomotor services are not the same as those of a logoped, physiotherapist or even an occupational therapist. They have a global approach that combines psychomotor development, language and emotions. It is something special and complementary to the work of the other three specialties. Similarly, orthopedagogues, which we have legally recognized, could be considered as logoped masseurs. There are already logopedes, pedagogues, psychologists... so why do we recognize the orthopedagogues that are essentially trained in Flanders? Because this corresponded to a practice tested on the ground, to a training that took place before the recognition of these health professionals and because it was felt, on both sides of the country, because we are in a federal parliament, that it was useful to recognize this profession. That is what I expect from you and my colleagues. We're at the federal level. Some professions have specific characteristics and meet needs. We must be able to recognise them, even if, at first, they are practiced only in one of the two Communities. You should think, from time to time, that on both linguistic sides of this country, we know how to be scientific, set up training and develop effective practices. You did not speak at all of the reform of Royal Decree 78, therefore of this reform of the professions. You have also not reassured me by referring to the possibility of re-considering the issue in the context of this reform. These two years of consultation with the service providers have again been illusory, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u48	Minister, what is your argument? It consists of saying that the French Community did not, in substance, need to promote these courses. If she had refused, we wouldn't be there, in your opinion. Is this the first time a paramedical profession has been recognized after the start of studies? No. And you know it well. There is better – and you were there when we were presented with the reform of Royal Decree 78. What do we see? You have announced and decided without any external advice – yes, it is the slides with the mention "minister van Sociale Zaken en Volksgezondheid Maggie De Block" – that dental hygienists could be recognized, whereas these are curricula that were set up two years ago only by the Flemish Community. If I tell you about it, it is because this example is eloquent. If you had been asked in Flanders to recognize psychomotorism, your position would have been quite different. I note that you say that this is not possible, when the European framework exists. In addition, you say you do not even want to look at another solution that would take into account Flanders and the French-speaking area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u49	Conclude, Mrs. Fonck!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u50	Mr. President, I'm finishing. Minister, your choice was to deny the reality on the francophone side. And no member of the government has ever said anything about it, not even the MR ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u51	Minister, the psychomotricians in the south of the country are not fanciful people who decided, simply because it was singing to them, or because they had been misguided one day, to take training without opportunities. No. Health professionals, like orthopedagogues in the north of the country, made the same choice. The latter, despite an unfavourable opinion of the paramedical council, have been recognised. But I'm not going back to that. I think the most important thing is the file that has been sent to you, that is documented, developed. Frankly, I don't think we should lose hope. Hundreds of future projects depend on it. These people are waiting for you to get to know this and answer them in the light of all your thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, I want to cry out: "Ok"! I want to tell you a few words: "Finally, the end of the tunnel!" The KCE has just issued its conclusions on the problem of contaminated blood. In the 1980s, blood was contaminated with hepatitis C and AIDS viruses through blood transfusions. There were positive results for those infected between August 1985 and June 1986 since they could be compensated, with one-off compensation. But this is nothing for people who were infected before 1 August 1985. There is total discrimination against them both physically, materially, morally and psychologically. Minister, you have taken a happy initiative in entrusting the KCE with a study on this issue. The results are now known, the victims are identified: 1,242 for hepatitis C and 41 for AIDS as direct victims, as well as 6,250 indirect victims. Minister, are you going to follow the findings of the KCE study? Are you going to compensate the victims? The press has echoed difficulties that you would encounter at the budgetary level. Do you confirm what the press has given as information? If so, it would be dramatic and totally unfair for these victims!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u53	Minister, Mr Senesael has just outlined the situation. Belgium has also not avoided the problem of blood transfusions, unfortunately. It is necessary to go back to the 1980s, and more specifically to Belgium, between 1985 and 1986. In the end, it was not until 2001 that the victims were first compensated. If this was a good thing, it created, next to it, discrimination. This, of course, is extremely regrettable. Subsequently, the Reform Movement wanted to go further in this matter and move forward with compensation for people with hepatitis C virus. Between 2001 and 2016, 15 years passed. They allowed for a more in-depth analysis. By the way, this was also made possible through a request made in committee. Thank you, Minister, for being the first to do what is necessary for an analysis to be conducted. Now we are confronted with this opinion of the KCE, but in fact we are happy to have it. In absolute terms, this opinion is quite exceptional for the victims. There is a clear claim for compensation. Of course, whether it is today or in the context of the budget, you are not spared. You have already had the opportunity to say that you understand the position of the KCE. But on the other hand, everything will have to be put in place to compensate these people. We are talking about an amount of 86 million and a period of 15 years. My question, Minister, is extremely simple. How will the follow-up to this recommendation be implemented to compensate victims? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u54	Colleagues, in the government agreement, it is planned to study the creation of a compensation fund for those who have been shown to have been infected with hepatitis C virus during a blood transfusion prior to 1986. The aim of this measure is finally to eliminate discrimination against persons infected with HIV under the same circumstances and who have been compensated. I have asked the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise (KCE) for a study on the extension to all transfusion victims, and we have just received the results. I will, of course, take this into account and consider his proposals. I will also look at what is possible at the budgetary level: how many years, what amount? In these moments of budgeting, we must always take into account everything because, in the meantime, within the framework of the "hepatitis C" plan, the priority is, for the moment, also to make the treatment for hepatitis C accessible to as many patients as possible. Because our hepatitis C patients are healing through this treatment. A procedure is then under way to extend the reimbursement of hepatitis C treatment for stage 2 fibrosis to patients at this high risk of developing stage 3 and 4. We are already doing the treatment at stage 3 and 4 and now we are going to expand it to stage 2. It is necessary to undertake both.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u55	Minister, I note that your answer is unclear as to the amount of compensation to be awarded to victims. We just said, it's $67 million over 15 years. You make 902 million savings in the 2017 budget; you say there are still margins to find some adjustments for new policies. Here, you are simply asked to compensate victims, to respond to a government agreement. The top priority is to find those 67 million. I prefer you to give up your logger's clothes and your axe to take over your surgeon's suit and your scalpel, to find them. But it seems to me that you are more able in this government to bleed patients than to find ways for the victims of the contaminated blood!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u56	Minister, the subject is extremely sensitive and important. In Belgium, this is regularly the case: one must be determined, have one's convictions and follow them. For the first time, after 29 years, you asked the KCE for an analysis of how to treat the victims of a blood transfusion problem in the same way. You did it. To address the issue of funding now, everyone knows that the money is counted. This does not mean that this happens, as we all hear too often, to the detriment of patients. It is certain that you are 15 years old to allow for a fair compensation policy. In this sense, your answer is important. Once the 15 years have passed, we will see if the commitments have been met. I have no doubt, but I would like to point out that it took this government to make the decision to carry out this analysis and now to reach a conclusion that will make it possible to compensate patients. I would like to know why this has not been done before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u57	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, yesterday and today it was read in the newspapers and in the report of the independent trade union that the somewhat disappointing income from taxation was mainly due to the decline in the workforce. I've heard a different story here for weeks in a row. The disappointing income was due to something else. However, we take note of the note of the independent trade union, which sees a right proportional link between, on the one hand, the workforce and, on the other hand, the tax revenue. However, we must also take into account the fact that the 2015 OECD report still places our country in the top-3 of all OECD countries in the ranking of the most expensive tax administrations in the world. We are in the top three, which means that we have a little enviable place in that ranking. It appeared that too much fragmentation and too little work is being done on new technology and that far too few targeted controls are being carried out. We have regularly seen in the Finance Committee the various administrative changes of the FPS Finance. They were called the "Tantiles" ("Tantiles"). We are now on tilting 3, which should lead to an improvement and a more efficient, more modern FPS Finance. However, we still have to take account of an army of administration. The FPS Finance consists of more than 20 000 officials, who have to carry out checks, do the tax administration and carry out tax controls. More than 20 000 officials: that is a figure that we must keep in mind. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Firstly, do you share the independent trade union's analysis that there is a right proportional link between the workforce and tax revenue? Secondly, has there been a recent evaluation of the implementation of tilting 1 and tilting 2? We are now tilting 3. What will be the result of that? What's the status of Finance? Thirdly, do you see any points for optimization yourself? Do you still consider an extension of the organisation possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u58	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the number of control officers in the FPS Finance has gradually fallen by more than 2 000 people, from 10 000 to 8 000. This is the result of a long road that was taken 15 years ago in the framework of Coperfin 2001. You have rightly referred to the overall staff of the FPS Finance, which has also fallen substantially from 35 000 at its peak to 23 000 today. That makes the FPS Finance, after Defense, still the largest department within the government. The union to which you refer links this fall in staff to the number of checks and the proceeds that result from them. However, this is a comparison that does not go unnoticed. Let me explain this to you. Between 2010 and 2015, the methodology of the FPS Finance has changed quite dramatically. We are now working very quickly and at the source with data mining and risk analysis. As a result, a number of anomalies are already emerging before we are in the control process. In addition, for a few years we have also had the proposals for simplified declarations, i.e. the pre-filled declaration forms, which have risen to 2 million in total. This means that when the FPS provides the taxpayer with a declaration form and this is approved, no further checks will be carried out. There is also the further development of the ruling service and of tax mediation, which also reduces the number of controls. Also important in this discussion is that the attacks of office are not in the figures used by the syndicate. In recent years, these attacks of office have also increased substantially. Finally, I would like to give you a number of figures. As regards the personal income tax, the average amount of revenue increases 2013, 2014 and 2015 remained approximately stable at 10 000. As far as corporation tax is concerned, the amount has risen and, as far as VAT is concerned, it has fallen slightly. With regard to Nos 1, 2 and 3, we evaluate them and try to continue to focus on automation in order to work as efficiently as possible on controls as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u59	Mr President, Minister, you have reassured us when you say that the basic objective must be that every citizen in this country, every company in that country, must pay the same taxes in equal circumstances. That's what the administration needs to check, and she needs to see that it does. I assume that with the explanation you have given, you clearly show that this justice is the real fiscal justice, Mr Calvo.... is that people and companies pay the same taxes in the same conditions. On the other hand, I would like to confirm one phrase of the opposition's self-righteous spokesperson. He says today in De Morgen in a very simple way that no new taxes should be invented and introduced. Mr Calvo, I follow you in that. I think that is an important signal that you have given, and I hope that you will stop inventing new taxes from now on, as you have done over and over again in this hemisphere over the last few months. You wanted to introduce new taxes for more than 7.6 billion in the last few months. I hope that you will stop now, that you have finally indicated that this is over, that that time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u60	Mr President, Minister, as you know, we are still awaiting a new management contract and a multi-year investment plan (MIP) for SNCB. As far as the ER is concerned, the government agreement provided – I quote – for: "the implementation of the ER will be accelerated and integrated into the SNCB transport plan." It still takes almost a billion euros to complete the RER. And this summer, you proposed an alternative financing of just over a billion productive public investments to overcome it. Since then, nothing has happened with regard to the financing of the RSP, which is one of the major absences from the 2017 budget. Was it simply an announcement effect? Will there be a realization? It is now time to show us how and when you will find the necessary amount. As we know, SNCB faces enormous challenges. To do this, it needs the appropriate minister to make important strategic decisions. Minister, when are you finally going to make these decisions? When will the IPP and the management contract finally be ready? Finally, with regard to the designation of the CEO of SNCB, it would appear that the headhunters office has stopped a short list of potential CEOs. What are you waiting for to make a decision on this? Is it blocked because of political bargaining?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u61	Mrs. Poncelet, the work is quiet. Decisions have been taken, since the allocation of the allocations for SNCB and Infrabel was communicated to both entities before the summer. At the end of July, SNCB informed us of the distribution of its allocation between investments and operations and submitted an investment plan to us. On the other hand, we are waiting for Infrabel's allocation between its investment budget and its operating budget and, consequently, its investment plan. It should be noted that the investment unit has been working with representatives of the Regions for several months to make choices among investments. We hope that within two to three weeks of Infrabel's communication of its investment plan, we will be able to globalise the investment plan of the two companies and finalize the management contracts. With regard to the designation of the SNCB CEO, in fact, as foreseen in the contract, the short list was closed at the end of September and the file is in the hands of the government which will soon make the choice. The government was still very busy with the budget debate. The file is now on its table and we will make the choice within the next two to three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u62	Minister, this is still the order of the future and it remains very vague. It's been almost two years since the MR has been working on mobility policy and you've been here for six months, almost day to day. We're waiting. We still want to wait a bit, but we are also waiting for the first euro of investment of the billion planned for the RER.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u63	As far as the billion euro is concerned, I hope that you will not have escaped the fact that SNCB is an autonomous public company and that it is within the group that the billion has been found. It's complementary to his investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u64	Mr Minister, thank you for this additional information. I hope that all this will be communicated clearly and precisely in a very short agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u65	Mr President, Minister, Brussels Airport is actually an economic engine for Brussels, for Flemish Brabant and for the rest of the country. At the same time, it is also an important employment pool for Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders, especially when it is known that some 3 000 people from Brussels, some 2 400 people from Wallonia and the rest from Flanders and other regions come to work at the airport. This employment is higher than at the airports of Charleroi and Liège together. Minister, we have all seen Brussels adopt its own noise standards in 2000. At the same time, a tolerance threshold was introduced, where fines were charged but not collected. However, from 1 January of next year this would change and this was also confirmed by a decision of the Council of State. This creates great uncertainty for all those who work at the airport, and especially for airlines who, on the one hand, follow federal rules, but, on the other hand, face fines from Brussels. Imagine us organizing the same system from Flanders. So how do we proceed? Our party always felt it was important for the airport to function, but at the same time it had to take account of the calmness, noise standards and also safety. On this last point, I am thinking, among other things, of flying straight ahead and the direction of the wind, which must be taken into account. In addition, we have always stressed a fair distribution. Mr Minister, can you assess the impact of this judgment on the economic strength of the airport? In what way will you work to safeguard the economic interests and interests of the inhabitants of Brussels, but certainly beyond?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u66	Mr President, Minister, everyone is impatient. The bruxellois too! You haven't been here for a long time, but the government has been here for two years. It is essential to find a solution, public health and the quality of life of Brusselsis is at stake. You know that a status quo is totally unacceptable and untenable, we need to find structural solutions for both over-flight populations and for the airport and airlines, which must have clear rules. Minister, two years is too much! It is absolutely necessary to land! Security must be the priority, and that was true for all ministers. Are you in favour of partial road change and taking into account the population density overrun? I have never had a concrete answer to this question. Are you in favour of the night extension from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.? The creation of an independent monitoring body could also resolve the battles between everyone. What is the status of negotiations with the Regions? What consultations have you already conducted? What is the timing of setting up this control body? The immobilism has lasted long enough. In the interests of everyone, it is important to find a solution that respects the most overlying populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u67	Mrs Becq, like you, I have been informed by the press about rejecting the appeal. The abolition of tolerance may lead to an increase in the number of aircraft flying over the Brussels-Capital Region which is considered to be in violation. It is to be expected that this will affect airlines directly if noise is not reduced. However, the judgment of the Council of State does not change the distribution of flights between the Brussels, Flemish or Walloon Region. Should each Region take measures having similar effects, all airlines that would not comply would see their financial burden increase. Your question shows the importance of tackling the problems of flights in a global and concerted manner. It must be reiterated that the Brussels-Capital Region has the power to take such a decision and measures, but I would also like to reiterate that, although the Regions and the federal government each have a piece of the puzzle, we will only be able to define coherent contours with a coordinated and concerted approach for a sustainable solution, both for local residents and for the entire aviation sector. The Flying Act will be one of the elements of the dossier and will be addressed in due course as a contribution to the sustainable and balanced solution that we will adopt together. For both neighbourhood residents and economic operators, the Air Force Act will be an element of stability. Mrs Lalieux, your question concerns the noise pollution caused by the overflight of aircraft from Brussels Airport. At the first point, you quickly mention the complexity of the problem by pointing out that only one measure will not be enough. You're right. I have identified the seven relevant components of the problem: operational, technical, legal, environmental, political, institutional and socio-economic. Moving forward in one of them before seeing how to work each of them would be a mistake. In my view, it would move the problem without solving it. Therefore, and I think you will understand my approach, we will analyze for each component the solutions. It takes time. I understand that after more than fifteen years and many disappointments caused by the ten ministers who preceded me, the residents are impatient. The population density, the length of the night, the aircraft QC, the Independent Authority, the new technologies, compliance with the instructions and standards applicable to the sector, as well as other points are on my table and will remain there as long as the package and analysis of each proposal are incomplete. Second, through broad consultation, federal and regional governments and municipalities will be involved in the choice to be made. Finally, I plan to invite representatives of local residents, as well as socio-economic actors, to the table to ensure fair, fair and balanced solutions, as I announced during a meeting that took place just before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u68	Mr Minister, if the balance you have shown in your reply, with the various facets and elements that have been covered, is also reflected in that flight law, and if you achieve a result, then I think you can achieve a good result. I believe, however, that it is important, in addition to the aspects you mentioned, that all residents should be included, not just those from one region. This proportionality must be taken into account very clearly. We must also continue to look at safety, which also means flying straight ahead and not making unnecessary turns. We must have the necessary infrastructure and take the necessary measures, without any additional fines from a region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u69	Minister, I understand your methodology. In my view, it is appropriate, if the consultation takes place first with the regions and municipalities concerned and not on a comprehensive package put on the table after having passed to the Federal Council of Ministers. For this way of doing things will not produce its fruits. Indeed, the balance of power is not exactly what we hope for. On the other hand, things take time, of course. As you said, 15 years have already passed, including two years for this government. This should really succeed in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u70	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, unfortunately we are about to get to know the season 2 of Fort Chabrol in Antarctica. You have, I think, a central responsibility. We know what happened last winter in Antarctica. We are about to take over the same actors and again experience a whole series of difficulties. It seems that you have decided to force yourself against the president of the International Polar Foundation, that you have decided to impose Belspo as operator for Princess Elizabeth station, and that you have decided to turn to Defence as an operator in the field. In any case, this is what is circulating according to the press releases. It seems that there would have been a decision of the Council of Ministers this morning. Doing this, you are obviously getting into difficulties, since you do not respect the recent decision of the Conseil d'État confirming that Alain Hubert and his International Polar Foundation are the privileged partners for the Princess Elizabeth station. You're also speaking to the Defence. I thought the Defence, and that's what I found in a notice you gave to the Council of Ministers a year ago, didn't have the expertise to manage this polar station. Moreover, the team sent by the Defense will land in Antarctica on Russian military ground. Do you think this is the right time, as our Foreign Minister convenes the Russian Ambassador, to send military personnel on a Russian basis? Do you not find that you are going there again in the face of difficulties? And then Alain Hubert himself announces that he will send his own team to the field there. So, really, Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to stop ridiculing Belgium on this issue. We have a very beautiful project, which was created by the President of this International Polar Foundation. It must be able to be managed rationally, calmly, so that science can progress, so that this polar station of a whole new generation can serve science and future generations. It is on this issue that I am waiting for you so that, at the end of the day, we can carry out a project up to the stakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u71	Madam Secretary of State, as my excellent colleague Mr Dallemagne has said, this polar station Princess Elisabeth is a flagship of Belgium. Maybe that's what bothers some people. It's a zero-emission station, Mr. Clarinval. It is a station which is due to a consortium, largely private, which then bequeathed it by signing an agreement with the Belgian State. This polar station is internationally recognized, which is still quite exceptional. Our country is one of the founding countries of the Antarctic Treaty. We know the importance of Antarctica to our planet. This polar station is also a recognized research centre with regard to global warming. This is a fundamental issue and we are witnessing a pitiful saga on the ice. For the past few months, Madam Secretary of State, you have not been paying attention to the questions that are asked of you regularly, and which make you now engaged in a legal fight. I do not know how many legal proceedings have already been initiated and you are, in addition, losing them, these judicial battles. The last one was the Council of State, which in September wronged you, in the fight that is gradually leading you towards Mr Hubert towards a form of personal combat, when it is the Polar Foundation. Beyond Mr. Hubert, be also attentive to the participants in the International Polar Foundation, to the people who collaborate in it. The Council of State tells you that you do not have the right to deprive the Polar Foundation of management and therefore of expeditions. Who will be the first to set foot on the ice? We are ridiculing Belgium in a case where we were at the cutting edge and which is for us a flagship. Do you have government coverage? Will the government be ridiculing itself and supporting you in this process? Has Mr Vandeput allowed the army and the defence to support you in this foolish project? Did Mrs. Marghem give you an environmental permit, which is mandatory for this shipment? These issues are important. I have read the report of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u72	Your time has expired, Mr Cheron.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u73	Apparently, and fortunately, there is no government decision yet. I hope that he will not follow you if you persist in this tragic mistake for this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, my two colleagues have described the difficulties and the history of the situation. It must be noted that we are in legal uncertainty about this polar station. The court decisions follow suit. Madam Secretary of State, on 23 September last, the Council of State did not agree with you and asked you to suspend your royal order to remove the Foundation from the Polar Secretariat, which would therefore be responsible for reopening and following up on this station. You're saying the army will be in charge. Are you being followed in this direction by the government? Will you follow the decisions of the Council of State? Who will be responsible for monitoring and reopening the station? If it is the army, does it have the technical skills, knowing that we are there in an extreme environment? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u75	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. I assure you that the future of the Princess Elizabeth Polar Research Station in Antarctica remains in line with what is stipulated in the Government Agreement. I would like to remind you that in 2013 and 2014, the Inspector General of Finance was, in his opinion and audits, particularly critical of the management and way of working of the polar station. In particular, he spoke of lack of transparency, mismanagement, possible confusion of interests and ineffective use of public resources. The current government has, on this basis, decided by royal decree of 10 August 2015, to adapt the management of the State service with separate management "polar Secretariat", in order to comply with the principle of transparent management of public funds. During the 2015-2016 Southern Summer Season, we successfully organized a joint mission, led by the Federal Science Policy and Defence. In the meantime, the Council of State has suspended the royal decree; I have read the reasons for this decision. Today, the Council of State is of the opinion that the limits of this legal framework have been reached. I will take into account all the arguments of the Council of State. As a result, the legal framework needs to be revised. The federal government has always sought a solution for the proper management of the polar base. With regard to this season, the government decided this morning to organize a new mission to Antarctica, in collaboration with Defence and experts from the Public Service of Scientific Policy Programming. The objective of this mission is to ensure, as a good father of the family, the maintenance of the polar station and to ensure the continuity of polar research. In order to ensure full transparency of the Belgian State, I will invite three representatives of the International Polar Foundation to join our mission as visitors. It is scheduled for the end of October to the end of February. With respect to the future of the Polar Station, the Government maintains its preference for the establishment of an NPSA, as stipulated in the Government Agreement. I can confirm that there is an international interest in participating in this new form of cooperation between the private and public sectors. The slogan is and will remain "good administration, transparency and efficiency".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, that's exactly what I was saying: you're going through the force. You invite the International Polar Foundation as a visitor. It's like a building tenant is invited to visit his building. You forget that the Conseil d'État has re-established the Polar Foundation as the sole partner for the management of the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station, which is extremely worrying since you are again facing legal difficulties and major conflicts. I was hoping - I asked you many months ago about this - that you would finally calm this issue by moving forward with those who created this project, carried it, largely funded it and had to be heavily involved in its management. It is only at this price and in this way that this project will hold the road for the benefit of science and future generations. I am still counting on you to correct the situation and ensure that the International Polar Foundation can be involved in this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u77	Madam Secretary of State, I also note that you are ignoring the decisions of the Council of State! I have always learned that a minister's first mission is to respect the rule of law. Here, you're going to be strong. I have just consulted the official communication from the Council of Ministers this morning. There is not a word, not a trace of what you claim to be a decision of the Council of Ministers; Transparency, the goed bestuur, go well with the N-VA in this government! We do not have the capacity to verify whether the government, too, has taken responsibility for flouting the rule of law. There is a decision of the Council of State that tells you very clearly that it is up to the Polar Foundation to respect what had been acquired, namely maintenance and shipping. I think that this passage in force will lead to other adventures that will make us ridiculous and certainly not ensure the sustainability of this polar station, internationally recognized, and that you are gradually destroying by your inaction in your action!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, I can share your concern for transparency, but I do not adopt your strategy and your political vision on this issue. First, you ignore a decision of the Council of State. Then I have doubts about your action to become this polar station, which is truly a flagship, which is the pride of our country. It seems you're trying to devalue it and we can't accept it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u79	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u80	By letter of 13 October 2016, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work. By letter dated 13 October 2016, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u82	Mr President, for the sake of brevity, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u83	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2008/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2008/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Bert Wollants, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u87	Mr President, I will be very brief. I just want to explain why we will abstain. Of course, it is highly positive and essential to take aviation activities into account in environmental matters. However, we do not share the view that a solution through market mechanisms is appropriate to address these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2012/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2012/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Van Biesen. He shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u92	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgian public debt amounts to 109.2% of GDP, EUR 406 billion. It's not nothing! It is also the supervision of bank guarantees that we have given in particular in the context of the Dexia file. Each year, billions of euros are given in interest, which requires prudent and intelligent management to avoid any false steps that could cost, as has already been the case, hundreds of millions of euros to the Belgian State. The purpose of the text is a reorganization of debt management, the creation of a Federal Debt Agency. But the main intention, as we have understood in the discussions, is to allow for a relaxation of the conditions of recruitment within this type A organization. And the stated goal is to be able to use specialists, as you call them, from the stock market, accustomed to marketplaces and complex operations, traders in a way, and to be able to exceed the scales that are usually applied within the federal public service. We will not deny that some specialization in debt management can be useful. These are complex mechanisms. Nevertheless, we are asking ourselves, Mr. Minister of Finance, specifically about the baraemic issue. I have expressed it in committee and I repeat it here. How much baraemic could we go to? Is it safe to exceed all the ceilings to recruit this type of staff from the private sector? Shouldn't this expertise be developed within the Public Service? Do we really have any public servants within the Public Service capable of managing these issues? At the same time, we are concerned about future approaches to debt management. Is it really necessary to import all the methods of private market rooms into the management of public debt? Who will keep the pilot tomorrow? Can we ensure that these engaged traders will not take over the authority of debt management officials and oversight agencies? How will internal control be organised? Will it be effective? These are questions that we have asked in the course of the committee work and to which the representative of the Debt Agency replied. You will allow us to consider that these moral and methodological commitments are insufficient in view of the financial, ethical and methodological risks that arise. I would like to take note of this, but I believe that these appeasements are very light. Therefore, we will abstain in the interests of prudence. I can assure you that we will be very attentive to this matter. We ask you also to be so with all the senior officials of our State who deal with debt supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u93	Mr. Speaker, the bill before us is not a small matter. It is about the creation of a Federal Debt Agency, which will profoundly change the face of the institutions we currently know. We abstained in the Finance Committee. We will do the same at voting time, because there are still some questions and concerns. First of all, minister, we must avoid bringing the wolf into the sheepfold. We have a huge debt: 109.2% of GDP. Moreover, its weight is getting worse; it needs to be measured well. At the same time, the interest burden decreased, as OLO rates reached 0.32% at the beginning of the week. So they're on the floor level. This means that you could alleviate the debt, but the policy you are pursuing does not contribute – on the contrary. In view of the considerable burden of debt, it is essential to continue to manage it well. My fear is, I repeat, that you will not cause the wolf to enter the sheepfold. Your willingness to use external expertise through recruitments that you would facilitate, in particular, as a result of contracting, could lead to such a situation that people from the financial and banking sector are tomorrow's public debt managers. So how will you avoid conflicts of interest and connivances? How are you going to prevent some from importing private sector techniques into public debt management, which have been seen in the past to be a danger? So you must reassure us, minister. We expect you to make a commitment before this House to ensure that a clear, precise framework is created that avoids conflicts of interest and that, through the development of profiles, will bring people who will be fully committed to the general interest, without in any way wanting to facilitate – I allow myself to say it directly and without detours – the business of certain players in the financial sector. The second point on which we also need to be reassured is management techniques. It will be remembered that in the 1990s, one of your predecessors had experienced difficulties with swap operations that had ended badly. In fact, the Debt Agency explained to us at its hearing that it continued to use techniques, hedging operations. In absolute terms, it can be understood, however, that the risk taken is well framed and that one avoids being in a situation where, finally, the operation to obtain a gain does not lead to an additional deficit. What guarantees will be put in place to prevent this from happening? There is a volume of 109.2% of GDP. Of course, there is the stock, there is the renewal of the debt, there is the redemption of the debt, and there are the new debts. In other words, management does not necessarily involve 109.2% of GDP, but nevertheless involves considerable amounts. This means that the slightest mistake can lead to a huge cost to the state. Here, we need a clarification on how you, as Minister of Finance, intend to protect yourself against a kind of excessive zeal, carelessness, risk-taking that is not part of the management of public debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u94	Mr Gilkinet, Mr Laaouej, we have already discussed this in the Finance Committee. I understand very well your concerns about good debt management, a huge mass of more than 400 billion euros. The proper management of this debt is imperative for the economic health of our country. The professionalization of this Agency that we are currently carrying out seems to me necessary, because the world in which this debt must be continually financed deserves the utmost vigilance. The overall management of the Debt Agency is entrusted to a strategic committee. The day-to-day management will be entrusted to an executive committee. The Federal Debt Agency will be responsible for the operational management of public debt. This management must be in accordance with the general directives issued by the Minister of Finance. We have thus created a structure that leaves a certain freedom, necessary to manage these debts optimally, but which, nevertheless, gives guarantees that few or no defensible risks are taken. Mr Gilkinet referred to recruitment; professionalization is imperative, but the current framework, with the profiles present, is sufficient for the project we have just begun. We will certainly respect what is included in the budget today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u95	You don't give a very specific answer to recruitment, minister. How do we avoid recruiting experts who would continue to have links with the private financial sector from which they come? We must ensure the independence of those who will work for the Federal Debt Agency tomorrow. In other words, conflicts of interest, collusion and connivance must be avoided. Will you make a commitment here to put in place procedures that will avoid getting into this harmful situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u96	Private organizations have experienced at their expense the fact that they have given too much power to traders. I am thinking of well-known cases, such as the Société Générale, in the Kerviel and others case, which are still before the courts. Risk-taking, which would be the result of the involvement of traders in the new Federal Debt Agency, requires clear benchmarks. I also share my colleague Laaouej's concerns about potential conflicts of interest and some form of incompatibility. I added the questions of potential baraemic drift. In a comprehensive and forward-looking way, the Belgian Federal State must be able to build within it the expertise necessary to manage this type of case. As part of the Dexia case, we have seen that we are totally impoverished in the urgency to provide the right answers, depending on both the expertise coming from France and the expertise of private banks or expensive lawyers' offices. Outsourcing this type of expertise is problematic. As much as I can join you on professionalization, the method implied here raises questions and we ask for guarantees in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u97	Mr President, I note that both speakers agree with the need for professionalisation. We will put in place structures that will make impossible the derailments we have experienced in the past. I would point out that the Debt Agency will remain closely linked to the General Administration of the Treasury. I repeat that, through the three levels (Strategic Committee, Executive Committee and the Minister of Finance's directives), we have three guarantees that controls will be carried out at each level without removing the freedom required for professional management. If this balance remains to be found, all the ingredients are there to ensure this balance in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2034/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2034/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u101	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these four draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these four bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u103	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u104	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u105	We begin by discussing the articles of the draft law 2058. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2058/4) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 2058. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2058/4) The draft law has 120 articles. The bill has 120 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the draft law 2059. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2059/3) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 2059. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2059/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the 2060 draft law. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2060/3) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 2060. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2060/3) The draft law contains 188 articles. The bill has 188 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the draft law 2061. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2061/3) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses of Bill 2061. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2061/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u111	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to take away the enthusiasm of this assembly, but I do intend to present a brief report on the discussion of this draft law in the National Defence Commission on 5 October. In his introduction, the Minister stated that this bill had a threefold purpose. Firstly, to make some purely terminological and technical changes to the various military laws. Secondly, align various provisions with the amended provisions of the 2007 Act. Thirdly, there are a number of administrative simplifications. During the general discussion, Mr Pirlot of the PS Group stated that he would abstain because, in his view, there was still uncertainty about the future of the army and the statutes of the military. Mr Thiéry of the MR Group stated that he was in agreement and felt that it would be possible for certain highly specialised posts to remain or be re-integrated beyond the 65-year limit. In addition, he felt that encouraging staff mobility between armies was a positive development. Mr Sp.a Group's summit considered that the draft law contained a number of good elements, but said that the sp.a Group would abstain in the vote. Mrs Hufkens of the N-VA Group said that this bill contributes to the steady modernisation of the Belgian army. In addition, she felt that staff should be properly informed about their legal status. Minister Vandeput stressed that this is a purely technical bill. In addition, he underlined five elements. Firstly, the statute will not be abolished, but it will not be extended. Secondly, the legal obligation to offer applicants a meal is abolished because of its low effective use, in order to avoid a form of waste. Thirdly, the 2017 recruitment campaign will pay particular attention to female candidates. A study was also ordered to make the army more attractive to women in the future. Fourthly, this draft law was thoroughly discussed with the trade unions. This draft law also bears their approval. Fifthly, staff will be properly informed about their rights. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the article-by-article discussion there was another interesting exchange of views between Mr Top and the Minister on whether or not to offer a free meal to applicants. Finally, the entire draft law, including a number of technical improvements and the annex, was adopted by 10 votes to four abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2027/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2027/3) The draft law contains 90 articles and 10 tables. The bill has 90 articles and 10 tables. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u115	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 77: Denis Ducrame, Kattrin Jadin, Françoise Schepmans, Philippe Pivin, Olivier Chastel, Richard Miller - 188: Christian Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u117	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for my group, the defence of Belgian rights abroad is a long-standing, sincere concern which is not only valid at the time of the elections, which is certainly an important moment in the exercise of citizenship, but not the only one; I will return to that. The project we are looking at today is looking at the vote of Belgians living abroad. It has two objectives: to simplify the electoral procedure for Belgians residing abroad during the election of the House of Representatives, and to extend the right to vote for the election of the European Parliament to all Belgians residing abroad, including those residing outside the European Union. This right is currently limited to Belgians residing in a Member State of the European Union. My group has therefore voted in favour of this draft resolution in committee and will do the same in plenary today. As we said in the Committee on the Interior, we supported this project because it broadens Belgians' access abroad to their right to vote at the federal level, it reinforces the principle of compulsory voting for all Belgians, and from a pragmatic point of view, it allows the municipalities to unload a real administrative puzzle. We will therefore support it, despite certain weaknesses which we have highlighted in committee and which will have to be corrected. Indeed, what about the equality of Belgians with regard to the right to vote, when this majority reduces the mesh of our consular network? What about the questions raised in committee, in particular as regards the criteria for joining a particular Belgian municipality, and therefore to a particular electoral district, especially since the last reform of the State had opted for the municipality of the last residence? What about those Belgians who do not register on the consular lists? The draft was adopted unanimously in committee, and that is quite normal. Normal because it is linked to the importance of the effective voting right of the Belgians, at the level of power having a direct connection to their daily life as an expatriate. This is the case for the European level, through security and defence policy, European diplomacy, the services rendered by the diplomatic and consular representations of each Member State, etc., and, for the federal level, through civil status, our positions on diplomacy and defence, consular services and much more. My group is convinced that, despite the physical distance, Belgians living abroad retain a very strong emotional bond with our country. In particular, they help to promote Belgium's image in the world and help to build bonds of friendship and solidarity with other States. This role and loyalty are important and deserve special attention from the Belgian State and, of course, from our Assembly. The practice and recommendations we receive from their representative organisations, however, have shown that Belgians living abroad sometimes encounter certain specific situations or problems in their relations with the Belgian Federal State and its administration which require an ad hoc political response and which the Chamber is best placed to respond to and ensure political control and control. We have taken a number of parliamentary initiatives in this direction, such as our proposal to revise the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to set up a federal committee of opinion on matters relating to Belgians residing abroad and our proposal for a law amending the Belgian Nationality Code with regard to the declaration of Belgian nationality. Although these proposals largely met the expectations of the representative organisations of our fellow citizens living abroad and even those of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, they were both rejected by the current majority, the same majority where the MR nevertheless self-congratulated in a press release to salute this project, omitting to recall his opposition to other texts debated here a few months ago. Nevertheless, we do not give up our arms. We have decided to take a new initiative, by submitting a proposal for a revision of the Constitution aimed at creating an electoral district allowing the representation of Belgians residing abroad. Such a constituency must enable our compatriots to elect representatives who can relay their concerns in Parliament and to report on their results and programmes in national elections. Such a constituency already exists in other Member States. This proposal, tabled in the previous legislature, is still valid and will allow, despite the distance, the Belgians living abroad to maintain a strong political link with our country. Let us hope that this time it will be supported by all the elected representatives of our assembly. I hope that this text will not have the same end of non-receiving it as the previous two majorities had opposed it. We can take positions of absolute defenders of Belgians abroad without systematically eluded the texts of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u118	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the draft law before us will enable us to respond more effectively to the realities of modern times. People no longer work under the church tower and no longer necessarily in their own country. We can easily travel and work abroad, sometimes for a long time. For the right to vote, we actually stuck a little bit in the old processes. In order to be able to vote, people of Belgian nationality had to be registered in a Belgian municipality. The European economic and political integration project has led to the first changes. In 1998 the law was amended by giving Belgians the right to vote abroad for the election of the federal legislative chambers. With the draft law now before us, we are removing the first discrimination that exists in the election to the European Parliament. The draft law therefore provides for some adjustments, so that the Belgian electorate abroad can attach himself to a Belgian municipality, by analogy with the current rules governing the election of the Chamber of Representatives. Why an attachment and no registration? There are several practical reasons for this, including that some Belgians have never lived on Belgian territory, for example children of people who are long-term workers abroad. There is also the cascade possibility of attachment to a municipality. However, we also know a number of additional complications and problems with the registration. I am thinking of the registration that immediately calls for a tax liability. We also have the registration that needs to be checked and in case of non-compliance one is not dominating. These are all practical objections which should actually be addressed. The draft law also takes account of European legislation. It also provides for the implementation of a number of administrative simplifications, including the fact that the municipal authorities and the governor will have less unnecessary administrative work. In addition, there is also a simplification of communication with the consular post. This administrative simplification is a permanent task for us, for the government, but actually for all the governments in this country. The intervention of the municipalities and the governors concerning Belgians abroad is therefore reduced to unnecessary. Belgians can register in the consular lists. The National Register shall transmit the consular electoral lists directly and digitally. We can only welcome the possibility of choosing between different ways of voting, and this on a voluntary basis. I drew attention to the figures in the Committee on the Interior when discussing the draft law. The figures show that an adaptation of the legislation is necessary and desirable, especially for the sixth attachment criterion. The figures are as follows: In the elections of 25 May 2014, 69.5% of Belgians residing abroad chose to vote by correspondence. In 2014, according to consular posts, there were 602 Belgians abroad who could not register for the electoral lists because they were not covered by the existing attachment criteria laid down in the legislation at that time. This figure would even be an understatement because many Belgians who were in this case never even contacted the consular post. Ladies and gentlemen, simplification is moving in the right direction for us. But perhaps we should start thinking about tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. We are voting today on a first modernisation, which, indeed, Mr Crusnière, was unanimously adopted in committee, but we must not dwell on the hic et nunc. On the contrary, technological developments and digitalisation create challenges and solutions to problems that were hardly soluble in the past, especially for voices from abroad. Perhaps we should consider allowing certain voting operations to take place in the near future with a secure web application and encryption, for example with the electronic identity card. Perhaps this can be done first as a pilot project for voting abroad and later extended inland. I am thinking, among other things, of electronic voting, electronic voting and electronic control. Digitisation will therefore reduce the administrative burden on our cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say: finally! Finally, today, our Assembly will decide on the extension and simplification of the voting rights of Belgians from abroad. Over the past ten years, the Reform Movement has submitted several texts to this effect. It is obviously a satisfaction for us to see these proposals come to fruition in plenary. Mr Crusnière tells us that the PS loves Belgians abroad and that he is a pioneer in their defence. I note that we are moving forward because this majority has been able to include, in the government agreement, the extension and simplification of the voting rights of Belgians from abroad and that the Socialist Party does not participate in this majority. (...): It's hard!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u120	It's hard, but it's just reality. Besides, you know that at MR, we're not the kind to shoot first. But when Mr Crusnière goes up to the rostrum to give us lessons in this field, it surprises us; all the more so, Mr Crusnière, that the debates in committee have been rather serene since the various formations have moved in the same direction. That's why seeing you draw and shoot forces us to react, reminding us that this is a fight we've been fighting for a long time. It is because, in our view, it is included in the government agreement and we have been able to answer several questions about it, which we have not been able to answer with you before. Allowing all Belgians to vote for the European elections is, as I said, a long-standing demand of the reformers. All Belgians will have the right to express their vote and preference over European political choices. At present, while some doubt Europe, thus bringing Belgian citizens closer to the European project, this is a requirement, it makes sense. But beyond the European Parliament, it was still essential, because the Europeans who had lived in Belgium since 1994 could vote for the European Parliament, while the Belgians outside the European Union still could not, more than 20 years later, vote in the European elections. Beyond this extension, which is important, the aim of this government project is to simplify administratively and ultimately to facilitate the lives of the municipalities and Belgians in the context of their vote. There have been some discussions in committee, which I would not call oppositions. The aim of the project is to relieve the municipalities of administrative burden and I believe that this has brought together the political groups, the majority and the opposition. We believe that the right to vote ensures and sustains the link between the Belgian expatriate citizen and his country. Evidence of this, 129,000 Belgian expatriates voted in 2014, for only 122,000 in 2007. As a result, demand is increasing. The administrative simplifications for registration, which had already been acquired in the past, opened up more possibilities and doubtless gave Belgian expatriates even more the desire to vote in the elections. At the time of hyperconnectivity, living abroad is not far away. For emotional and family reasons, Belgians abroad remain interested in the political issues that drive their country. It is clear from this that, at this stage, we can hope to continue to see this link between expatriates and the federal or European elections further. If on the left, like us, you like Belgian expatriates so much, you will also want to solve a problem about which we must make sure to gather two thirds to give Belgian expatriates the opportunity to vote in regional elections. So here too, dear friends of the left, we will be able to judge you on the piece.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u121	Mr President, as has been said, the debate in committee seemed to me rather constructive and unanimous. It is interesting to note that in plenary there is a desire to attack each other. I am a little embarrassed to hear the two political groups PS and MR quarrel on the backs of the Belgians from abroad whom they seem to like so much. In committee, there was a debate on an amendment by my colleague Delperee, who was also constructively approached. Neither Mr. Ducrame nor Mr. Crusnière were present. It is appealing to see them do their show today. The ecologists, moreover, have always supported democratic participation and the extension of its base, so as to allow all Belgians abroad to participate in more elections. That is what we have always defended. Not necessarily out of love for Belgians abroad, but out of love for our representative democracy, and for it to be as representative as possible. My group will support this text without restraint, with enthusiasm. I am somewhat sorry for the little quarrel that we have just witnessed. It was not appropriate and does not represent the debates we had in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u122	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief and I shall say three things. Yes, Mr. Vanden Burre, the intentions expressed in the bill we are now analyzing seem very happy and timely in terms of political participation. It is a reform whose opportunity is obvious. I am quick to say that my colleague Christian Brotcorne had already, in time non-suspecto, tabled a proposal to that effect. We will therefore vote on the draft before us. In my personal capacity, I regret, once again, the idea that electoral law accredits this idea that a number of Belgians are not obliged, are not obliged to vote, that they actually have to register to vote, and if they register, then they are obliged to do so. As if the Constitution was based on this idea: voting is compulsory, but only for those who have registered to do so. It is an idea which displeases me, I was going to say sovereignly, and which I do not wish to see spread, even unannounced, in our legislative texts. Mr Vanden Burre said that the debates in committee were very consensual, even unanimous for all the proposals, and quite constructive. In particular, we have worked on issues that are not necessarily a matter of great politics, but on very technical issues, such as the connection of the Belgian from abroad to one or the other constituency. An important element of the project is that it provides for a residual category. If there is not a set of criteria, there is a solution, which is a vote in the Brussels constituency. But one criterion is problematic, that is Article 180, paragraph 1, 4°. Minister, we've talked about this. I reread it so that things are clear to everyone: "4° This is the reference to the Belgian municipality in which the husband, wife, previous husband, previous wife, or partner in a registered cohabitation, is registered or has been entered in the population register." Our colleague Mrs Becq said: "This wording is still very curious. This does not in any way comply with the provisions of the Civil Code. We use other words, other words, we refer to legal situations much more precise than these vague formulations. I don't see why public law should contradict civil law." Secondly, not in terms of family law, I asked myself the following question: what is the link between this criterion, husband-wife, divorced-not divorced, separated de facto or de jure, partner, what is the link with the operation and the electoral process? In committee, Mr. Minister, you said, "Don't worry, I'm going to propose solutions to you in plenary." If I understand correctly, you're going to tell us that you're removing the quarto from the list of criteria. Anyway, that's what I hope to hear from your mouth now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u123	Mr President, Minister, the design of this draft law is undoubtedly positive. There are a lot of good things in it. A first element, if the process of preparing for the elections is eased, will at least be a good thing for efficiency and will relieve the municipalities of a great deal of work. A second positive element is that the number of citizens entitled to vote is increased, not only to those living in another European Member State, but to all Belgians abroad. As a democrat, I can only welcome that. It is only logical that the same criteria should be applied which already apply to the parliamentary elections today. However, I do have reservations about the attachment criteria, in particular the relaxation that is used in them. The first choice, the criterion of last registration, is relaxed to the municipality where the person was once registered. The evidence will be eased. Sometimes it's even enough to give a word of honor. A category is even added for those who are nationals but have no connection to a municipality, and such a link cannot be demonstrated even after the relaxation; that person can also be registered and can automatically be attached to Brussels as a voter. I wonder what the consequences will be. When I look at the figures of the number of Belgians abroad and the language roles, I suspect that nine chances out of ten will be the result that French speakers will get a lot more voters in Brussels by percentage. That is an evolution that I do not like to see happen, so as far as those attachment criteria are concerned, I follow my predecessor. There is still a lot of work to be done, otherwise we will have to abstain from this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u124	Mr President, Minister, I would like to speak on behalf of my group to support you and the draft. That's obvious. It is strange that we have waited so long to give Belgians the right to vote abroad. There have been some political motives. I can testify to that. I would like to congratulate you, Minister, for continuing to do so. I would like to point out one aspect that is important to us. As far as administrative simplification is concerned, steps have been taken, but we could take another step, in particular via the Internet. When I was just in the Senate in 2000, the first bill I ever filed concerned voting over the Internet. That was revolutionary and unspeakable at the time, but in the meantime it exists in several countries, including Estonia, where people can even vote on the mobile phone. Especially for Belgians abroad, this would be a solution because we now have to move, with all the costs involved. There are systems that ensure that voting secrecy is respected. I understand that the project is being looked at further in the government, including with your consent and with that of the Minister for Digital Agenda. Do you think it is realistic that this can be achieved for Belgians abroad by the next elections of 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u125	Mr President, first of all I would like to endorse what Mr Vanden Burre said. I would also like to thank those Members who have been involved in the discussions in committee for the serene atmosphere during the debates on something that should have been settled for some time. Many of the things that have been said here have already been discussed in committee. I would like to touch on three points: electronic voting, voting rights and voting obligations, and the fourth criterion in question. We have addressed the fourth criterion in committee, but we have not yet concluded. With regard to electronic voting, the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Home Affairs and the services responsible for the Digital Agenda, we are investigating whether we can introduce i-voting before 2019. That is the ambition and the intention. We are considering whether we can adopt an existing system in the EU without having to reinvent the hot water itself. The Swiss system, for example, seems appropriate to us. It is important to consider to what extent a secure access can be provided for all Belgians abroad, via the eID or a token, but I hope via the eID. You will understand that we will not introduce this system until we are 100% sure and have safeguards in terms of secure access, data security and voting, and in terms of the capacity and accuracy of the system. You are right, Mr Van Quickenborne, electronic voting systems are already being used in other European countries. Why should we not be able to achieve that? That is certainly our ambition in this respect. As regards the compulsory nature of the vote, I refer to the Council of State, which has validated this voting obligation for Belgians from abroad. The Council of State's reasoning on this issue is set out in its opinion of 2 May 2012. In that opinion, the Conseil d'Etat indicated why the fact of listing is not in contradiction with the Constitution. Finally, there is the fourth criterion in question. It is true that I said in the Committee on the Interior that I would review this with the majority parties. We did so on 10 October last. I have noticed that all the majority parties remain committed to maintaining the fourth criterion. I'll also explain why. This fourth criterion was inserted following the experience we experienced in 2014 when Belgians from abroad were registered on the electoral lists. Several of them could not be included on the basis of the criteria for joining a Belgian municipality, as defined by the 2012 Act. These include Belgians who have acquired nationality through their marriage, but without any other connection with Belgium. I am thinking, for example, of a lady of French nationality who never lived with us who married in France a Belgian and later became Belgian by marriage. In other words, this person's only connection with Belgium is her husband, who may have become her ex-husband in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u126	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u127	Maybe! I don't hope so, but we never know!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u128	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u129	We were given all the comments. Can I continue now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u130	Yes, go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u131	Thank you. The connection to the Belgian municipality of this husband therefore seems to be objected to. In the absence of such a criterion, individuals would fall under the last criterion. However, we must not confuse the attachment criterion with the way in which these people have acquired nationality. This is determined by national law. As far as electoral legislation is concerned, one is faced with a Belgian who is required to vote, because he is registered in the consular registers and is 18 years old. However, since the person concerned has never stayed in Belgium, the only link is that of a possible former spouse or partner. Even if the relationship with the partner is broken, for example after a divorce, the person in question remains Belgian. For example, it could be proposed as follows. A person who has become Belgian through his or her partner, but whose partner has passed away, might emotionally prefer to keep the memory of his or her partner alive, to assign his or her voice to the municipality with which the deceased partner had a connection. If we had not introduced the fourth criterion, it is always to be excluded, and that person would also be included in the sixth criterion. Mrs. Pas, I can reassure you. When we did not have all these criteria, we talked about 600 people. With these criteria, the number covered by the sixth criterion will be drastically reduced and we will come up with numbers that cannot in any way disrupt language balances or political balances in the capital or in the Brussels Region. That's it, Mr. President, I think I've answered all the questions. I thank the House for its support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u132	Mr President, I regret that the minister is using legal categories, such as the partnership he has just mentioned. It is included in the text of the law, it is not a criterion in the sense, in particular, of civil law. Why not refer to specific provisions such as, for example, articles untel to untel of the Civil Code, chapter untel, title untel? It would be very easy on the legistic level and would avoid unnecessary discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u133	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u134	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2032/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2032/3) The draft law has 46 articles. The bill has 46 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u135	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u136	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sonja Becq and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh are the reporters. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u137	Mr President, an interesting committee meeting was held on this draft. I am surprised that the Minister is not present at the moment, but it is reported that Minister Jambon will replace him. After all, I have an interesting question, Minister, and I hope you will be able to answer it. Colleagues, this is a very important transposition of a directive, which will grant a great deal of rights to civil parties and victims who need interpretation and translation during the process. The text of a draft law is often accompanied by an impact analysis to assess the impact of the law on a number of criteria. Well, it was found that this design was accompanied by the wrong impact analysis. However, the Minister immediately corrected this and provided a new impact analysis with an annex and an annex. I'm not a fan of studying impact analyses, but I noticed because one of the questions is what the impact would be on employment. An extension of the right to interpretation and translation obviously has an impact on employment because many more interpreters and translators are needed. In the new document it is very interesting to read the answer to the question on employment. Then one has to check whether it has a positive, a negative or no impact. The Minister manages to check both a positive impact and no impact. It can be considered that a given measure will have both a positive and a negative impact on employment. In the French version only one choice was made, but in the Dutch version two were ticked. My point is therefore that a little more attention should be paid to the criteria. It has to be done on the basis of a thorough study and in a serious way, but not quickly between the soup and the chips, because then Members are supposed to be content because an impact analysis was carried out. Next, we are not always a good pupil when it comes to transposing directives. The transposition of this directive took up to three years. That's a long time. I really don't think this is possible. We cannot accept such an overrun of the time limit in this House. It can always happen that we're a little late. With the Salduz legislation, we'll be just in time. Anyway, three years of time is a long time. Thirdly, this remark is crucial, and if we give additional rights to victims in the form of translation and interpretation, then we must also ensure that there are sufficient interpreters available and that they are reimbursed in sufficient time. In recent years, due to the payment problems of the government, many good translators and interpreters have accepted other assignments and have started to decline. I therefore call on the government not only to implement the law properly, but also to ensure that those responsible for implementing it, the translators and interpreters, are sufficient in numbers, that they receive a proper wage and are paid in good time. If not, it will be nice on paper, but chaos in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u138	Mr President, I will bring to the attention of my colleague, Mr Koen Geens, the sighs of the honourable Member. Certainly as far as the impact analysis is concerned, I think a correction is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u139	We assume that the Minister of Justice is indeed reading the report of the sitting thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u140	Mr President, in the context of the general discussion, I will explain immediately all the amendments I tabled to this draft law. We fully agree, of course, that a defendant, of whatever nationality, is entitled to a fair trial, that he must be able to understand what he is accused of and to follow and understand the essence of the trial, including the judgment. The time of Coucke and Goethals, when they complained of unfair trials, because they were not powerful in French and their trial was conducted entirely in French, is fortunately a long way behind us. If we want to enforce the right to a fair trial, we must indeed provide for translation if we do not understand the language of the procedure. The same goes for the victims. We had this discussion in the Committee on Justice following the fact that victims of the attacks of 22 March had difficulties following this in Dutch. On the other hand, there is the precarious budgetary situation in the FPS Justice Department. I recently asked Minister Geen's figures. The account for the translation work amounted to 5.8 million euros in 2011. Last year, the amount went up to EUR 7 million, which amounts to around EUR 19 000 per day. If the interpretation is added to that, the bill is even EUR 19 million. It is, of course, not easy for the State to charge everything, as laid down in the draft law. In the amendments I have tabled, I propose that costs should not be charged to the State in a number of cases. If someone rewards hospitality here with crime and is effectively convicted, then I think it is only logical that he repays the translation and interpretation costs. In the amendments we make an exception, on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, for all residents of the European Union. The transposition of the Directive will also provide for translation at the expense of a Belgian convicted abroad. That is why, through the amendments, we apply the necessary reciprocity. Anyone who does not live in an EU Member State and is effectively convicted here, the whole bill is only about criminal law, which is therefore an effective criminal, should at least pay back the translation and interpretation costs. The committee report shows that Mr Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Van Cauter also felt that the unsuccessful party should bear the costs, but no reply was received on behalf of the Minister. I hope that will be the case today and that our amendments will be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u141	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u142	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2029/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2029/4) The title was amended by the Commission in draft law transposing further the Directive 2010/64/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 October 2010 on the right to interpretation and translation into criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences and replacing Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. The title was amended by the committee as a draft law supplementing the transposition of Directive 2010/64/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 October 2010 on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. The draft law contains 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u143	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u144	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 11 to 14 and 16. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 10, 15, 17 to 19.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u145	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u146	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Sébastian Pirlot, Stéphane Crusnière, Eric Thiébaut, Daniel Senesael, Georges Dallemagne, Alain Top, Karine Lalieux. The Committee on Defence proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1474/5) The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this proposal. (1474/5) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u147	Would it not be welcome for a member of the government to be present? Is it hidden behind the benches?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u148	Mrs Marghem is here. So I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u149	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u150	Mr President, Minister, a people who forget their past is condemned to relive it. For the PS, memory work is an essential mission of the work of National Defence, and more broadly of the federal state. Under the former legislature, in a debate on World War I, the N-VA declared that the duty of remembrance was only a tourist competence. Today, this party, once in control, fully implements its program. Aware of this outrageous position, my party, long before this majority, had taken the initiative to draft strategic directions 2015-2030 for Defence. Among our five priorities, we found this memory. That is why, on November 10, 2015, with my colleagues, I tabled this resolution on National Defence's missions in memory work and citizenship development. We were also joined by colleagues from the CDH and Sp.a, whom I thank. Defence must be a citizen actor, especially with regard to the younger generation. Remembrance, memory, is a wealth that must guide our civic and political actions. That is why, in these texts, we called, among other things, for memory work to be a priority of the future strategic vision, to maintain and modernize the Royal Army Museum. Should I recall that the MRA is considered one of the three most prestigious museums of military history in Europe? We called for the full use of scientific and human personnel, already present in these defence institutions, rather than the use of the private sector. We also asked for a reform of the Institute of Veterans, which was thoughtful but above all concerted. These requests, though simple but essential to the memory work, were rejected by a majority sweep at the committee on 20 May, and I now understand why. Last June, Minister Vandeput finally released his strategic vision. Memory work is only mentioned on a tiny 144-page page. We would almost regret that, in these meagre paragraphs, we are talking about rationalisation and sanitation. Ladies and gentlemen, read privatisation and regionalisation. It is true that we cannot blame the minister for failing to deliver on his promises, since on July 20, the government decided to create a new Category B public interest agency, which merges the Royal Army Museum with other entities, and which has the sole objective of privatizing the Museum, its management and, eventually, its collections. I quote Minister Vandeput when he stated on 31 May 2016 that "in the perspective of EP, the renovation and operation of the MRA will be requested from a private partner." On the other hand, at our last commission, the minister made it clear that some collections, although owned by the federal government, would be entrusted to sites owned by third parties. The Institut des Vétérans, for its part, simply disappeared as a result of this merger. In short, there will soon be no federal anchoring of the memory of the Belgians. Secondly, an organizational chart announcing the decentralization of certain flagship collections of the Cinquantenaire site, such as aircraft and tanks, leaked into the press. Mr Calomne himself was very emotionally concerned during the committee on 5 October 2016 about the transfer of certain parts from the Air and Space section of the MRA to Coxide. So, not content with privatization, we can fear regionalization for the benefit, once again, of the northern part of the country and above all to the detriment of the federal capital. Although the minister has defended this, he has repeatedly told us that memory work is either tourism or education, i.e. two subjects that no longer fall within the purview of the federal government. Finally, as in the case of raising the pension age of the military, it seems that here too, the minister makes little use of staff consultation before implementing his reform of the MRA and the Institute of Veterans. Here too, I want to point out the discussion we had on May 31, 2016 about parastatals. In conclusion, in the face of these blows in our collective and national memory, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to refer this text back to committee and to work on it. If, like us, you feel that the essential tasks of the memory work are threatened and that you fear that the historical pole of Defence will soon be attacked in the same way as those of BELSPO, you can only support this text. The memory of the Belgians belongs to no one. I turn to you, dear members of the MR. I hope you have finally been able to awaken your group to safeguard this national memory and the Royal Army Museum, which is the most visible facet of it. It is good to ask questions to put your concerns on a long and broad scale; it would be much better to do so and before it is too late in the Prime Minister's party. Defence must continue, in good intelligence with the federated entities, to ensure the transmission of memory to future generations and thus maintain the indispensable link between the army and the nation for the sake of peace, a link that has been undermined today by the strategic vision of the minister and the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u151	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u152	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of the proposal No. 2088/1 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin cs who asks for the withdrawal of the request for consideration of her proposal, I consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals are sent to the relevant committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 2088/1 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin et al., which calls for the withdrawal of the request to take account of her proposal, I shall consider it to be accepted and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I propose to you the bill (Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the Law of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission to insert the Deontological Code for Public Managers, No. 2098/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u153	I propose that you take into consideration the bill (Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Commission of Ethics to include the Code of Ethics for Public Agents, No. 2098/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u154	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u155	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy, No. 2085/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy, No. 2085/1. I propose that we speak out on this question at the sitting and stand up. I propose that we take a stand on this request. But before that, I ask the government to justify its request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Prime Minister, Kris Peeters, with whom I have the co-responsibility of this piece of legislation, and I myself, together with the government, ask for the urgency of this bill. I recall that the purpose of this bill is to respond to the problems encountered following the entry into force on 1 January 2016 of the Act of 29 June 2014, which amends the Basic Law on Liability of 22 July 1985...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u157	Colleagues, if you ask for motivation, you have to at least listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u158	The purpose of this bill, which Kris Peeters and I are presenting, is to respond to the problems encountered following the premature entry into force on 1 January 2016 of the Act of 29 June 2014, which amends the Basic Law of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. In this context, the ministerial decrees of 25 March 2016, signed by my colleague, declared admissible the requests for guarantees made by the operators and carriers and extended the period necessary for the examination of their files until 31 December 2016. This maintains their recognition as nuclear operators within the meaning of the Basic Law of 22 July 1985 until that date. In addition, 1 January 2017 is a pivotal date since it is at that date that the nuclear RC insurance policies of operators and carriers are renewed after a long process that cannot be moved in the calendar, given the number of actors involved at the national and international levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the urgency of sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u160	These inquiries were developed in plenary session on 13 October 2016. These interviews were held at the Plenum meeting on 13 October 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 178/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Catherine Fonck, Ms Vanessa Matz and Ms Isabelle Poncelet and by Messrs. Christian Brotcorne, Francis Delperée, Benoît Dispa, Michel de Lamotte and Benoît Lutgen; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter De Roover, Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme et Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 178/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Isabelle Poncelet and by Mr Christian Brotcorne, Mr Francis Delpérée, Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Michel de Lamotte and Mr Benoît Lutgen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u161	Yes 79 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2008/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2008/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 137 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2012/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2012/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Jadin voted yes. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 89 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 50 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2034/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2034/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 82 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2058/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2058/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 92 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2059/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2059/4) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 82 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2060/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2060/4) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? )
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 90 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2061/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2061/4) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Françoise Schepmans voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 93 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 45 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2027/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2027/4) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms Özlem Özen, Mr Laurent Devin and the cdH group abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2032/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2032/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u171	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Beware of Article 11. (2029/5) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Not to Article 11. (2029/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 5 Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u172	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u173	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u174	Of which act. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Beware of Article 12. (2029/5) Vote on amendment No. 2 by Barbara Not to article 12. (2029/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u175	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Beware of Article 13. (2029/5) Vote on Amendment No. 3 by Barbara Not to Article 13. (2029/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Beware of Article 14. (2029/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Not to Article 14. (2029/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u177	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 16. (2029/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 16. (2029/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u178	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2029/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2029/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u180	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u181	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 82 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1474/1 was therefore rejected Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1474/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-20-54-plenair-ip136x.u183	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 27 October 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 27 October 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 27 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 27 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
