ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we meet until 12:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u2	Minister, the open violence and repression of every opposition in Burundi continue. It is a huge challenge to work in a fragile country such as Burundi, perhaps the most fragile country in the partner countries for Belgian Development Cooperation. You have a certain political vision on this. I quote what your policy paper says about this: "It is the conviction of this government that sustainable inclusive economic growth is not possible without respect for human rights. For example, the country programme in Burundi clearly shows the need to change our approach. The government has decided to suspend and strengthen a number of programmes and projects closely linked to the Bujumbura regime as long as the Article 96 dialogue between the European Union and Burundi is ongoing. Programmes and projects aimed at improving the fate of the population continue to be open." What specific projects are the subject of Belgian Development Cooperation? Which ones are maintained? What is the status of these projects? When is the next evaluation planned for these projects and on what concrete elements will you evaluate them? It is, of course, both bilateral and multilateral projects as well as projects at NGA level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u3	As far as governmental cooperation is concerned, on 2 October 2015, I decided to stop the process of forming the Burundian police after it became clear that the role of the police is not such as to justify the involvement of Belgian development cooperation. I have also decided to suspend a number of programmes which are close to the Burundian authorities or which can very easily be the subject of political recovery. It concerns the pavage project, support for the Burundian justice system and support for the ministries in the area of governance. The programmes are continued in the concentration sectors of the cooperation programme "Agricultural, education and health," the activities of which directly benefit the population. Only the activities aimed at institutional support are suspended. The reorientation of Belgian development cooperation with Burundi was registered in a European framework, in particular in the context of the Article 96 dialogue of the EU-ACP Cotonou Agreements. The European Council of Foreign Ministers is expected to decide in mid-March 2016 what measures should be taken following the unsuccessful conduct of the Article 96 dialogue. In relation to the actors of the Belgian non-governmental cooperation in Burundi, I asked them in October 2015 to send me any adjustments, taking into account the changing context. This process is still ongoing, but it is already apparent that the majority of their activities, mainly targeted at beneficiary groups, continue to be maintained and remain confident in achieving the desired results. However, many of them have had to tighten up their security measures. The regulation on the financing of non-governmental actors makes it possible to adapt to a programme flexibly in a changing context, provided that it is deemed necessary and requested by non-governmental actors, who retain their right of initiative. My administration continues to follow the issue carefully. Therefore, the existing dialogue platforms with the NGOs, both in Brussels and at the embassies on the ground, were activated. Some organisations were more affected by measures directly affecting their partners, such as freezing accounts and suspension of activities. Their situation is carefully monitored. In the field of multilateral cooperation, core funding is mainly used to contribute to the overall budget of the organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u4	Minister, perhaps it might be useful to get an overview of the NGOs projects that are still going on, to get a look at the type of projects and how they stand. I heard yesterday say that the central bank is also being taken over by the current regime and that it will be very difficult to use the funds for these projects. Maybe that's what needs to be watched after all. In the end, this is a sabotage of cooperation; if one no longer gets his money through the bank, then one cannot continue to work. That must be looked at. It is not intended that the population should be affected by the fact that NGOs are no longer able to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u5	It is noted that some of these projects do not like to be seen by the current regime. They often take short-sighted measures to make life difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u6	Mr President, Minister, on 21 May 2015, in line with the government agreement, the decision was taken to stop Belgian government development cooperation in six countries. These are two low middle income countries, Bolivia and Vietnam, and four high middle income countries, Peru, Ecuador, Algeria and South Africa. However, these countries still face an important task in achieving sustainable human development. Although they are considered economically prosperous on the basis of their gross national product, this classification obscures the vulnerability of these countries. This vulnerability is not only significant in economic terms, but also in social and environmental terms. Two thirds of the MIL from before 1990 is still today and many of them remain vulnerable to a fall to a low-income country. Many of these countries remain facing major challenges, such as the great internal inequality, human rights violations and degradation of their ecosystems. These are major challenges in which development cooperation can still play a role. You also share this view, because although government cooperation is moving towards an exit phase in the six countries mentioned above, you have already stressed in debates that you should focus more on partnerships with other development actors, such as NGOs, universities and BIO. That is a good thing, but I do not think it is enough. It does not relieve the Belgian government of its responsibility to pursue sustainable human development in these countries, which is crucial to achieving the 2030 Sustainability Agenda. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. In what way will you make the valuable initiatives of current government development cooperation in the MIL sustainable, such as the state institutions that monitor human rights, anti-corruption and so on? How do you want to strengthen partnerships with other development actors in the MIL? How will you support Belgian civil society in MIL in their actions in the field with their local partners and with local civil society, in particular in the efforts for the most vulnerable and marginalised groups? Can you guarantee that the full amount of the current promised budgets for the six exit partner countries will be spent? I would also like to know what amounts are involved. Are there also concrete agreements to reorient the budgets that have not yet been established in function of the transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u7	The closure of several cooperation programmes with the six already known countries of Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Algeria, South Africa and Vietnam is a fact. It is crucial for the programmes there and also for other Belgian actors active in these countries, that this transition takes place properly. I know from experience that a halt, especially in Asia, is sometimes misunderstood. Belgium should not be placed as an unreliable or disloyal partner. On the other hand, there are signs that agreements will also be reviewed critically in the 14 partner countries, in order to allow for the introduction of new policy options or budgetary constraints. This means that any new agreements will no longer be concluded on the basis of commitments made during the previous Joint Committees. Existing agreements or projects can be terminated and budgets can be reduced. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. What input do the exit countries with which cooperation is discontinued in the transitional programme? What is the state of play for the transition programmes per exit country? What budget do you provide for the rest of the legislative period per exit country? Is it true that you want to review the ongoing cooperation programme with the 14 partner countries in the context of the new policy orientations and budgetary constraints? How do we position Belgium as a sustainable and reliable partner with regard to partner countries, but also with regard to OECD-DAC? Does this not undermine the predictability of aid, an important principle of the international donor community? What will be the consequences for these cooperation programmes, for the staff of the administration working in Belgian Development Cooperation, for the local partners and initially also for DGD and BTC? Are there no costs associated with the closure of a programme? I believe that some of these decisions are based on budgetary constraints. What implications will these halts have on the budget for government cooperation in 2016? What budget is still foreseen for each sub-segment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u8	In accordance with the coalition agreement, bilateral government cooperation is to be extended for a period of four years. As the decision on partner countries was taken on 21 May 2015, the deadline was 30 June 2019. By then, all the interventions of governmental cooperation will have to be completed. The BTC has received this as a clear instruction. For exit countries, the ongoing commitments will be honoured, as long as they can be completed by 30 June 2019. In a number of ex-partner countries, our cooperation has already clearly reached a higher level. Support through budget support and institution building of general health insurance in Peru is a clear example of this. In addition to our purely bilateral cooperation carried out by the BTC, a cooperation agreement was signed between the Peruvian SIS, Seguro Integral de Salud, and the Belgian RIZIV. This agreement clearly exceeds the period of our bilateral cooperation. In Algeria, the success of the waste treatment programme is based on strengthening the functioning of the Algerian competent administrations and mobilising civil society. The creation of jobs through support for small enterprises is also an objective of the programme. In the preparation of this programme, all Belgian actors were invited to provide input for identification and to explore their interest in establishing partnerships with equal actors in Algeria. It is now up to the executive organisation BTC to involve them. Five of the six exit countries are on the list of the 33 common strategic frameworks of the Belgian non-governmental actors. This means that these countries remain a priority for Belgian non-governmental cooperation. During the course of this year, Belgian non-governmental actors will present their new five-year programmes 2017-2021 for these five exit countries, in which they will present proposals to support local civil society and in which inequality, protection of human rights and degradation of ecosystems may be important issues. In fact, it is by no means my intention to reduce non-governmental cooperation in these countries, quite the contrary. In these countries, civil society has just an important role to play in putting crucial issues such as inequality on the agenda and giving voice to the most vulnerable groups. In Algeria, no Belgian non-governmental organisations are active. This has to do with Algerian legislation which means that the Algerian government does not allow direct financing by foreign NGOs. I'll give you a few figures. The cooperation programme with Ecuador was concluded in 2006 and has a budget of 32 million euros. The programme with South Africa was concluded in 2006 and has a budget of 20 million euros. For Peru it was closed in 2009 and is a budget of 40 million euros. For Vietnam, the programme was closed in 2011, with a budget of 60 million euros. For Algeria, the programme was closed in 2013, with a budget of 20 million euros. For Bolivia, it was closed in 2014, with a budget of 18 million euros. Mrs Van Hoof, I have indeed asked the DGA and BTC to examine the entire portfolio of governmental cooperation for a number of reasons. First of all, because of the savings in the budget for development cooperation, as they will inevitably have an impact on governmental cooperation. Of course, there is also the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which has radically changed the context of government cooperation. My policy priorities must also be translated into governmental cooperation. As you know, the BTC has a legal ceiling of 750 million on encourse, i.e. all the appropriations committed for operations in progress. In 2015 the encourse has now risen to 735 million euros, indicating a significant delay in its implementation. If no action is taken, joint committees will no longer be able to be organised in the coming years, new cooperation programmes will no longer be signed and new interventions will no longer be possible. You will understand that I am quite willing to implement the decisions of my predecessors, as far as they are still relevant, but I would also like to see my policy priorities implemented. It seems useful to me to keep our portfolio of interventions under review at regular intervals in order to ask some questions. What's going well? What's been delayed? Where will the results probably not be achieved? Where does the partner country show little political will to honour its commitments? What interventions are not sustainable and threaten to get bogged down after delivery? To my knowledge, such an exercise has not taken place in recent decades. However, it is absolutely a useful exercise. In my 2016 policy paper, I outlined the concrete conclusions and perspectives to be drawn from the new 2030 Agenda for International Development in Belgium. We discussed this yesterday for a piece. There is a central focus on the rights approach, which focuses on progress on human rights, and the focus is on inclusive and sustainable economic growth, which reaps the benefits of the entire population. The focus is on cooperation with LDCs and countries in a fragile context, where ODA is important. Specific concerns include, for example, support for the local sector and for domestic resource mobilisation, digitisation as a lever for development, productive agriculture and food security, and climate and migration challenges. The exercise of the DGD and BTC, in which my policy cell is of course involved, is still ongoing. I cannot comment on the results, but I must confirm that the exercise will lead to the reorientation and possibly even the cessation of a number of interventions; otherwise it will be impossible to faithfully implement the savings that have been decided within the government and also to achieve my policy priorities. Of course, this will be done in consultation with partner countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. However, it would be interesting to obtain more information on the extent to which the objectives set out are also being achieved. I would ask the President to do the same. After all, it is still four years and it would be interesting to return regularly to Parliament and the committee. We can then look annually at what objectives were achieved and what the difficulties are. That's how we could follow it up regularly. However, the decision has been taken. It would be interesting for MEPs to be regularly informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For the exit countries, is it clear that the budgets you have listed will be implemented further? That's the idea. I refer to the agreements made in the joint committees. You say 30 June 2019 is the deadline. However, there is doubt as to whether the planned budgets will indeed be implemented. However, I can now hear you say that it is the intention to spend these listed budgets in real terms. Are these included in the budgetary constraints? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u11	As far as they can be carried out before 30 June 2019. Like I said, parallel to that, there's some sort of screening exercise going on. However, this screening exercise takes place more from a substantive perspective. Since the course is so great today, one would actually be in a situation in which even a minister who has been in office for five years can in reality lay little emphasis on policy. Keeping these things under review, in conjunction with partner countries, is a useful exercise. Otherwise we will have a system in which a minister actually only carries out what his predecessor has decided. The next minister will have to do the same. We have a legal ceiling of 750 million and today we are at 735 million. If we look at the implementation, what has to be done over the next five years is already established on the basis of what my predecessor has decided. I want to have a little influence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u12	I totally understand that you don't want to sit there useless. However, new joint committees are coming up, in which these accents can be laid. For a partner who concluded a cooperation programme with the previous minister, the lines cannot, of course, be cut abruptly. It's the partner country itself that's most important to me. It must continue to be able to place certain emphasis in its own policy programme thanks to the resources it receives for certain programmes. It is therefore not possible for each minister to put forward his own important points over and over again and to suspend programmes. As a result, the predictability of aid becomes unreliable and this makes it difficult to lay out its own accents on the ground. I hope you will take that into account. I understand very well that you want to emphasise certain things, but that should be possible within the current, ongoing programme. The easiest thing to do is to place the emphasis on identifying or formulating projects, because they are not yet in progress. Personally, I find it difficult to put an end to the current projects. Local staff are also active, as a certain logic is being followed in the partner country itself. That way we become unreliable. It is therefore impossible for each minister to consider certain matters no longer important and therefore to abandon these projects. The partner country must certainly be involved. However, I know from experience that a partner country is always a little afraid to respond to a donor country, fearing not getting anything more. It is therefore doubtful whether the partner country will make any comments on this. I hope that there is some respect on our side not to stop ongoing projects abruptly if they do not fit in with the policy priorities. That should not be the intention. That is why I am asking for a decision not to be taken unilaterally, but to try to achieve it properly. As for the encourse, I know the BTC has a program, but that's pretty young. If we figure out what they're doing and what's been realized... even though the program isn't old, it's going pretty fast. I think that for the sake of the BTC I can say that the programmes are being implemented rather quickly. My question is therefore that there is some caution in the case of ongoing projects. If this revision is to be carried out, I would ask for an overview for Parliament so that we can have some insight into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u13	Minister, my question was tabled two months ago. I wanted to know where you were in the ambitious reform of the BDA (Belgian Development Agency). For the time being, we have only partial information on this subject. Have you consulted the various actors? As was pointed out yesterday in the debate on the objectives of sustainable development, the staff of the CTB (Belgian Development Agency) expressed some concerns. What are the acquired elements and what are the elements that still need to be adjusted and detailed? What is the timetable for this reform? On several occasions, some of my colleagues and I have expressed the wish to be involved in thinking about the future of cooperation. So how do you envisage this exchange of views with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u14	Minister, my question is in line with Mr Dallemagne's question. Any reform will, of course, cause some unrest for the staff. That's normal. Every reform is uncertain about what the future will bring. I hope, therefore, that the people working for the BTC will be informed quickly so that they can orient themselves within Belgian development cooperation. It's usually people who are highly motivated and committed. I have several questions for you about the state of play. It is not really in the coalition agreement, but I believe that an evaluation of the current operation should be carried out. I have the feeling that this has not really happened and that it is immediately being watched how other countries do it. Nor do I feel that the evaluation by the DAC criticized the current operation. Was this evaluation the basis, or was there another basis for the changeover? I do believe that we must evolve, and that development cooperation is a dynamic fact, but that development must be gradual. The fourth management contract between the BTC and the Belgian State dates from 2014. This management contract has now entered into force, but no meeting of the Joint Committee has yet been organised. My questions on this are as follows. Firstly, the management contract has not been in force for long. The current evaluation of existing structures by the DAC was not negative. How do you intend to reform without prior evaluation of the current situation? Secondly, you ask the BTC to consider how it can evolve into a development agency. How's that thinking exercise coming? What's the result of it? What do you mean by the implementation of a development agency? What tasks and responsibilities should it have? What is different from the current tasks and responsibilities of the BTC? What initiatives will you take to ensure the necessary budgets for a quality functioning of the BTC and the DGD in the transitional phase of the fourth management contract to the new development agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u15	Mr President, Mr Minister, the staff of the Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) and the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) are concerned about their prospects for the future in the context of the reforms that are taking place. You indicated during a speech during the New Year's reception on 27 January that there will be a place for each DGD and BTC collaborator and that an exciting future awaits both the BTC and the DGD. However, according to the echoes that come to me, staff see these promises as blurred and not giving sufficient guarantees for the future. The drastic downsizing at the CTB headquarters in recent years is a reality. This is not only the result of natural departures following pension payments, as you stated in your speech, but also of a general management of the BTC where even essential positions are no longer filled. One can guess the consequences: an increased risk of quality loss, an ever-increasing workload, certainly in an area where people very strongly believe in the project for which they are working, and more long-term diseases and burn-outs. Staff are increasingly receiving the message from their management that they are no longer hoping for a career in Development Cooperation at the BTC. The deterrent effect of this kind of message is felt especially among young colleagues. The promising rejuvenation of staff at the CTB, with a healthy combination of senior and junior experts, will soon be a thing of the past. Staff are also getting confused about the impact of future reforms on the financing of the BTC and, hence, on the financing of staff in Brussels. According to the 2016 Corporate Plan, this funding has decreased by more than one million euros, from 2012 to the present. Under the fourth management contract, the current funding provides for management fees based on turnover. Less turnover, more delegated cooperation, less joint committees, all this will automatically lead to fewer resources for Brussels. Minister, from what I have understood, staff hope that you are aware of the invaluable value of human capital still available to TBT and DGD, their recognized international expertise, their daily dedication and their boundless commitment. For having personally worked for two years in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, I can confirm a very high level of expertise from CTB in this type of case and invaluable assistance for those working in the field. The staff assumes that it is not at all a question of dropping this capital but, on the contrary, that you want to strengthen it further. Minister, how do you expect to ensure job security for the current staff of the BTC and the DGD? What will happen to BTC staff? Will it be fully transferred to the BDA? What will happen to DGD staff, particularly that of the Geographic Coordination Directorate (D1)? What initiatives will you take to end the brain drain of BTC and DGD? What initiatives will you take to ensure the necessary budgets for the full-quality operation of the BTC and DGD during the transition phase between the fourth management contract and the new BDA? What scenarios are currently on the BTC/DGD mobility table?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u16	Mr Hedebouw, your questions are exactly the same as those that the unions sent me by letter. I have had the opportunity to discuss this with them, but I am ready to start this discussion again. Colleagues, some are wondering why this is happening now because it is not included in the government agreement. The reflection had already begun before the formation of this government. On June 23, 2014, four months before I became Minister of Development, the Board of Directors of the CTB had decided to launch a strategic reflection to prepare the CTB for the challenges, as part of what was then called the Post-2015 Agenda, which became the 2030 Agenda for the SDO. The Chair of the Board of Directors and the Chair of the BTC Executive Committee informed me of this during my first meeting with them on November 21, 2014. I have clearly encouraged them to move forward in this reflection. I also met with the Board of Directors at the end of September 2015 to discuss it. The year ended at the end of October 2015, when the Board of Directors approved an ambitious proposal to transform the CTB into a development agency, the BDA (Belgium Development Agency). In its proposal, the BTC refers to the new paradigms created by the 2015 conferences in Addis Ababa on financing for development and in New York on Agenda 2030. This new paradigm forces the BTC to rethink its role and functioning. The BTC needs to be able to work more flexibly, in a more decentralized way. In addition, the government has decided to focus its cooperation policy on 14 partner countries, 13 of which are in Africa. Twelve of them are least developed countries and eight are fragile States. This means that the BTC will have to work more in an environment with a lot of risks and must be able to cope with it. Finally, the CTB also refers to the recommendations of the OECD Aid for Development Committee peer review in September 2015. I quote one of the recommendations: "DGD and BTC recognize that they must continue to adapt their organizational structures and business models so as to keep pace with the ever-changing landscape of development cooperation and the needs of developing countries". At the end of November 2015, at my request, DG Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid presented an opinion on this BTC proposal. In December 2015 and January 2016, my firm organized four meetings between DGD and CTB. At these meetings, we found that DGD and BTC widely shared the analyses and proposals contained in the BTC document. In fact, I undertook to take up the points of agreement between DGD and CTB as they stood. There are, of course, some points of divergence on which the government will have to decide. On February 23, I met with the unions, DGD and BTC in the presence of the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Chair of the BTC Executive Committee. On the basis of this preparatory work, which, I repeat, had begun four months before my appointment, I have just made a note to the attention of the government setting out the main lines of transformation of the CTB and the BDA. This note is currently being discussed within the government. I am confident that the government will approve it before Easter. You will understand that it is difficult for me to comment on the content of this reform as long as I am not covered by the government. I agree with the CTB in its ambition to make Belgian government cooperation more effective, to reduce duplication with DGD and to operationally translate the decisions taken last year within the framework of the United Nations. As soon as the government has taken a position on the broad lines of this reform, I will begin discussions with DGD and CTB staff, with the unions and, of course, with you. I also discussed this with the unions last week. The aim will be to translate these main principles into legislation. Mrs Van Hoof, as I said earlier, I believe that the peer review does encourage Belgian government cooperation to reform itself. In Recommendation 4.1, the DAC invites us to check whether our business models are adapted to the evolving international context, in particular to the specific problems of the least developed countries and countries in fragile situations. Recommendation 5.1 is an invitation to consider whether our instruments are sufficiently flexible and whether we are sufficiently adapting our instruments to the local context of partner countries. The proposed reform seeks to respond to these two recommendations. For the peer review it is clear that we need to adapt our instruments and our approach in governmental cooperation. Those adjustments are necessary because of the paradigmashif of the 2030 Agenda and also because of the government's decision to focus governmental cooperation on the least developed countries and on fragile countries. The responsibility of the development agency will increase. The Agency will be given greater autonomy to prepare country programmes and to record all interventions. The Agency will be able to move more flexibly with resources between different interventions if it is found that intervention does not deliver the expected results. The Agency will be able to cooperate more easily with other actors of public institutions in a partner country. In governmental cooperation, the first choice remains, of course, to cooperate with the partner government in an intervention. However, in some countries or in some areas, it may be too difficult to cooperate with a government and the agency will be able to work more flexibly with other operators. Mr Hedebouw, to answer your personnel questions, as I have already told you, I have met with the CTB and DGD unions and consultation with staff is primarily the responsibility of the organizations. I understand that both BTC and DGD have been anxious to inform their staff on a regular basis, but this is clearly the responsibility of management to do so. Some argue that the aim of this reform would be to reduce staff. I categorically deny it. On the other hand, I am convinced that we can do more and better. Indeed, with about 140 employees at DGD, 180 at CTB, 50 at BIO and 12 members of my firm, I think we are capable of a lot, a lot of things. If, in the future, these organisations are working even more together in the interests of Belgian cooperation policy and in the interests of the people of our partner countries, I think that with a total of 380 employees, we can create even more added value than at present. Finally, I agree with you that transitional measures will be required to allow staff members who wish to do so to move from BTC to DGD and vice versa. We will plan these transitional measures in collaboration with the human resources departments and the legal services of the two organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u17	Minister, thank you for this information. I am also convinced that further reform is needed. As has often been mentioned, both the context and the objectives and partners of Cooperation are evolving extremely rapidly. I understand that you want to keep the first of your broad guidelines within the government. However, it seems interesting to me to have a debate in Parliament on these broad lines before they are finally agreed. It is important that Parliament be able to be involved in some way in the reflection on what our cooperation should be, on the role that the BDA will have in this rapidly evolving cooperation. As we've seen in the past few years, I think the cooperant is someone who has to evolve. I note, for example, the great demand from partner countries for specialists who come directly from some of our administrations in the areas of justice, police, etc. All of this deserves a debate on these issues. It would be a shame if the government were to deprive itself of such a debate or that this debate took place once a series of options and decisions had been taken. Mr President, I ask that Parliament, obviously in conjunction with the government, be able to have a preliminary debate here before the broad lines are revealed. This would seem to me intelligent and good policy, and it would help to aerate your own thinking. We also have a little expertise at the level of parliament. It is a pity that information is provided indirectly through trade unions, staff or other contacts. In my view, it would be more appropriate to have this debate in Parliament. Mr President, I would like us to consider how to organize this reflection. As you said, minister, there are still a whole series of steps before the bill can be discussed. It would, in my view, be a pity if a preliminary reflection could not be organised in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you will also find an encouragement in the peer review for further reform. It is also logical to expect flexibility in dealing with changing realities in the field, especially when working with the least developed countries. However, I did not think that the current operation was being drilled into the ground. The most drastic reform there was in the 1990s, came from ABOS to DGOS. That was necessary in response to a number of scandals. Luckily, today we're not dealing with scandals. Development cooperation has certainly not been susceptible to fraud as in the past. Those instruments have therefore worked in this area. I believe that we are internationally recognised as a partner and that we have a certain expertise. We can be proud of that. You are ambitious and I think that is good in development cooperation. I'd say someone's finally got the nerve to do that again. However, I do believe that Parliament should also be involved in this. After all, it is a drastic reform. In the past, a drastic reform has taken place as a result of scandals, now it is taking place on the basis of the international context and reality, the 2030 Agenda. I therefore believe that Parliament should also be involved on the basis of the evaluation and choice of the model that we want to use. This is going to be fundamental for the future and I think we should know which model we are going to choose for. I often hear mention of the Swedish model, the SIDA model in which there is a lot of outsourcing, both to NGOs and UN organisations. I myself am not entirely convinced of everything about these UN projects. We also do not have good evaluations of these projects. Of course it is much easier to spend it, but on the other hand I am convinced that the BTC is appreciated and recognized on the ground. I don't know what it's about and what the distribution is about there. One can decide to go more on the ground and put more resources in it because we are recognized and appreciated there. I would be sorry if Belgium were to bring down good elements. We have to prevent that. We must preserve and, if necessary, strengthen the good things and not outsource them too much through delegated cooperation. We need to work together in the international context and find our place in it, that's right. However, we can also say that Belgium has some expertise that we can continue to play out in relation to other countries. That is why I am calling for the debate to be held in Parliament, because it is the most drastic reform that has been taking place since the 1990s in the area of governmental cooperation. Sectors and accents can be changed occasionally, but the way we work is fundamental. That is what we Members of Parliament are faced with. We do not keep our ears on the ground and hear all kinds of things. It would actually be more useful to conduct this debate thoroughly in a number of sessions in Parliament. At that time, the committee of inquiry on ABOS took a long time. It doesn't have to be that way, but we in Parliament have to show some seriousness in getting involved. We have seen from your answer that you want to go somewhere, but do not know on what basis and exactly what will happen. That is why I am asking for the debate to be held in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u19	Minister, I can only join my colleagues' requests. It is not the monopoly of this commission to have such discussions with ministers on a regular basis, but it is still a matter of giving precedence to the legislature over the executive. I think it would have been better if we had had a debate before your decision-making, so that we could discuss it in depth and not just through it. I can only agree with the colleagues' request to consider having this debate in depth in committee in the next two weeks. Then, my inspiration, you will understand, is very trade union. Through the debate on the status of workers in this company, there is also a vision of the direction to be taken. And that's where our views diverge. Has the current CTB and DGD management communicated widely to staff? It comes to my mind that it is above all a very top-down communication of decisions that will already be implemented, and very little consultation. I believe it is good for our democracy that this internal business debate also comes back to the level of politics, since ultimately it is the policy that will decide the direction to be taken. I take note, and I guess I can confirm to all staff that the executive will not move in the next five years. Is it the minister's commitment that the framework will not move in the business?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u21	All right. Instead, I have echoes of non-replacement following retirements. There is currently confusion on the subject in the negotiations. If the minister today commits that the framework will not move, I will take note. It's said in a parliament, I think it's important. Trade union organisations will know that there is no danger of staff reductions and that all pensioners will be replaced, one for one, in this part of the administration. Last, and this seems important to me, on the global vision revealed in the current reform. As you know, I think we will have this debate soon, it seems to me important that development cooperation should focus on working with partners on the spot and without too much or rather no interference in the internal affairs of countries. I believe that it is important for countries like us to help actors on the ground to move forward, autonomously, taking into account the reality on the ground; and not just to see development cooperation as an instrument of pressure on the independence of certain countries. We will have the debate in the months and years to come, but it seems important to me when the overall assessment of our foreign policy is quite catastrophic – it is enough to see the results of our various armed interventions. You're gonna tell me it's not you, and that's right! You don't have much budget, but I hear that your colleague, the Defence Minister, obviously has a lot of budget to replace his F-16s. I believe that we must pay attention to the fact that development cooperation is taking on a central role. Your budgets are down. I can only regret it. Further questions will be asked on the subject. I hope that we will have an opportunity to have an in-depth debate on this issue in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u22	Mr. Hedebouw, you should have listened to me better. I repeat that this transfer from the BTC to the BDA does not meet a staff reduction objective. The exercise is about the new role of the Public Service, but the measures that have already been decided by the government as a whole regarding the non-replacement of personnel are naturally maintained. It's not an extra layer. If you ask me: "Will the current framework be preserved?", I'll answer you no, of course. The previous decisions remain valid. As you may know, Mr Michiels and Mr De Wispelaere will be coming to this committee on 15 March. Finally, I take about 85 % from the note from the BTC. It seems logical and pertinent to me that you are holding the debate with them. Actually, I'm taking over their proposal. I have committed myself to taking over what the DGG and BTC agree on, except for the 15% they disagree on. I'm gonna have to make a decision in that. On the one hand, I hear some people talking about more discussion, on the other hand, I hear people saying that they need to give security to the staff. That's not always compatible. I agree that it is necessary to clarify the staff quickly, but then it is also necessary to decide quickly. I am absolutely not opposed to debate, but I want to be able to keep up the speed of the decision. That is why I have submitted a draft to the government, which is why I hope to have clarity by Easter. Then, of course, I will also clarify the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u23	I have heard the appeal of my three fellow Members who have asked this question. I would like to endorse that, simply saying that we went to the OECD in November. We have discussed a number of points with the OECD specialists. One of these is the question of whether there should be no reform of development cooperation, including in connection with SDG, but also with other factors. In the context of that discussion, I have had two things to say. Firstly, a British expert told us that the reform of the British system was initiated by Clare Short, a socialist minister. The Cameron administration has taken over without changing anything. According to the British expert, this happened because Parliament played a very important role at the time Clare Short proposed her plans. The British expert said that the project is supported by parliament, giving peace, stability and security to his country's development policy. Secondly, half an hour later we talked to a Swedish expert. Where there was a movement from left to right in Britain, there was a right-wing government in Sweden that had made a major reform of SITA. This reform is not being changed by the current socialist minister. Once again, according to the Swedish expert, the explanation for this was that, fortunately, they had the wisdom not to turn it into a matter of majority opposition at the time of the reform, but to discuss it widely in Parliament and also with all stakeholders before political decisions were taken. I would therefore also like to call on you, Minister, to engage in constructive cooperation and exchange of views. I believe that you are now in conversation within the government and that you hope to have some sort of guide note with great principles by the Easter holidays. I suggest that we debate this. I also propose that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should prepare itself well for that debate. We already have a meeting on the agenda with the leading officials of the DGD and the BTC. The midfielder's already pulled my jacket. With your approval, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a short two-hour meeting with civil society and also with trade unions before the Easter holiday. The representatives of the trade unions have already spoken to me about this. We will try to fit that in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u24	Mr President, if I am not mistaken, we are in Question Time and this is in line with that. However, this is something that we must discuss with this committee in order to regulate the work. I propose that the order of business be changed at our next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u25	We have already agreed that we would ask civil society and trade unions. We will look for a date for this in the arrangements for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u26	Minister, as in the case of the defence sector, we have been saving money in development cooperation over the past few years. By 2019, the government will save approximately €1 billion cumulatively in Development Cooperation. However, development cooperation is also in our own interest. Without the necessary investment in certain areas, the flow of migrants will increase significantly. In addition, many countries are increasing their commitment to development aid. Belgium is against this trend and is constantly putting the knife in the budget. In 2014, Belgium spent 0.42% of GDP on development cooperation. With the announced savings in this legislative period, the percentage will fall further to 0.38 % in 2019. Meanwhile, your colleague from Defence, Minister Steven Vandeput, managed to raise the Defence budget to nearly 1.4 % of GDP by 2030 after years of savings. Minister Vandeput received the government's approval to invest EUR 9.2 billion in Defence in the coming years, at least according to his estimates. The investments include fighter planes, frigates, drones, cybertechnics and mine hunters. In this way, the budget for Defence becomes a multiple of the budget for Development Cooperation. However, we believe that a 3D approach, Defence, Diplomacy and Development, is necessary in order to resolve or prevent conflicts in an integrated way. A balanced 3D approach only has a positive impact on developing countries. Security and development must go hand in hand in order to achieve a sustainable solution. However, recent government budgetary decisions make it painfully clear that there is a militarisation of aid, which puts security above development and prevention. That's why I have a few questions for you. Your colleague Vandeput recently managed to raise the defence budget. Have you already made efforts to provide an additional investment budget for development cooperation in the context of that decision? Are you also of the opinion that a balanced 3D approach is necessary to resolve conflicts and that the budget for development cooperation should in fact be similar to that for defence? If so, is that idea already on the government side? What could be the outcome of that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u27	Mr Top, the coalition agreement of 9 October 2014 stipulates that Belgium will make efforts, to the extent that it is budgetaryly possible, to reach the 0.7% of GNI standard for development cooperation. Because of budgetary constraints, this objective cannot be achieved in the first few years. Nor can I set a binding timetable in the current legislature. The Council of Ministers of 15 October 2014 also decided on a savings path for development cooperation in the context of the control of expenditure for the coming years. I intend to do that, too. In this respect, it is my intention to increase the impact of ODA spending. That is why I will focus my policy on the least developed and fragile countries, where needs are greatest and where ODA is still the main source of external funding. I will focus on more result-oriented management and I will use ODA as a lever for achieving development objectives and for funding through sources other than traditional development cooperation. After all, I am always surprised at the extent to which the obsession with development cooperation is to spend as much as possible. It must be about the only domain where people work like that. In other domains one looks at the impact and the result. I find it very surprising that the sector is always looking at the input, while I think it is important to look at output much more. Of course, I admit that it is a lot harder to measure the output than the input. Supporting development in a partner country is not limited to contributing to some sectors or domains. Sustainable development is only possible if it is based on respect for everyone's rights and inclusive economic growth. As Minister for Development Cooperation, I have chosen to focus attention on the least developed countries. Not all but several of these countries also have security problems due to internal conflicts, social unrest or strong integrity. Supporting development in these regions often requires a broader approach and more consultation with Defence, diplomacy, police and justice. There are already several informal information platforms operating between the different departments, including in the Great Lakes region and around the Sahel-Saharan region. The Interdepartmental Commission for Policy Coherence in Development Policy could also play a role in a more balanced approach. I must also stress that in the SDGs peace and security is one of the seventeen objectives, with good reason. Unfortunately, in the past, work on development in a place of great insecurity and internal conflicts has often been a battle in the water. So it's often a condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u28	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have some reservations. The starting point was to make at least as much and actually more efforts in the field of development cooperation. In my opinion, the input of such financial resources is necessary to ensure the 3D approach. You said that you are discussing the areas and countries where Belgium is active with the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs. We are right to commit ourselves to a number of countries, because we cannot intervene throughout the world. At the same time, there will be no output if no funds are invested. The funds invested are directly proportional to the results. I understand, of course, that there are currently no resources from development cooperation to conflict areas. However, the starting point must be to work preventively. If we work in areas where there are no conflicts and where we aim for sustainable development, there will be no conflicts. On the other hand, I've never been able to end a war with a bullet or a bomb. What's the end of a war? That is by offering a perspective, a perspective for lasting peace. That lasting peace can be achieved by guaranteeing means to bring that country or region back on its feet. I believe that as long as we do not invest as much in development cooperation as in defence, we will have to play the firefighter in conflict areas for a very long time and at the same time face refugee flows.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u29	I have one more clarification. If we look at the defence budget against GDP, we are the last of the peloton today. If we look at the budget for development cooperation, we are above the OECD average, yet a fundamental difference. Could it be more? Of course we can, but we're already above average, while the DOD is dangling all the way down. Comparing the two with each other, I find a comparison that doesn't go well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u30	You made the comparison with today's figures, but that was not my question. I made it very clear in the introduction that the Minister of Defence wants to increase to almost 1.4 % of GDP by 2030. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u31	Parliament has the final say. If the minister doesn't say anything, the incident will be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u32	Mr President, Minister, there are many problems in Burundi's refugee camp in South Kivu. This was also stated by the magazine MO*. Fifteen thousand Burundian refugees have sought refuge there, and the situation there is appalling in terms of food, the support of HIV patients, who are not being treated, and there are ethnic conflicts, because there are both Hutufens and Tutsis in that camp. The conflicts are, of course, stirred up a bit from Bujumbura; the camp is only two hours from Bujumbura. In view of the poor situation, my question is as follows. Is there any Belgian support for this refugee camp? What support does our country provide for in concrete terms? What amount is granted? What organisations are this amount allocated to? Are you planning additional support and resources to improve the situation of these refugees in this camp?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u33	Mr President, Belgium has financially supported the Common Humanitarian Fund of OCHA in the RDC with EUR 5 million for the period 2015-2016. OCHA is the UN organisation responsible for the overall coordination of humanitarian actions. The Common Humanitarian Fund in the RDC is a so-called pooled fund, a flexible and predictable funding mechanism for the most critical humanitarian needs. In October 2015, that fund paid a grant to meet the most urgent humanitarian needs in the refugee camp with Burundian citizens in Lusenda. This support was paid to projects proposed by various organisations, such as Caritas and UNHCR.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u34	Mr President, Minister, it is good that resources are provided. It is also good to have a state of affairs, because apparently the situation is appalling. We need to see whether Belgium can't make sense or whether we can point out to UNHCR its responsibility in this matter, because it seems that things are going really badly in that camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u35	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Development Cooperation budget is increasingly going to the reception of refugees in their own country. This was calculated by the Koepel of the Flemish North-South Movement 11.11.11. In Belgium, 140 million of the development budget went to reception between 2010 and 2014. That's a doubling in four years. This increase continues because of the increasing number of refugees. In 2014, 7,6% of the budget went to reception and an estimated 10% last year. As the number of refugees is rising, I wonder what it is before 2015, because we do not yet have these figures. The resources that go to shelter are certainly not the problem here. It is essential to provide quality reception for refugees and the government must make the necessary budgetary efforts to do so. However, it is a worrying development that these resources come from the already declining budgets for development cooperation. After all, the government announced savings of EUR 1 billion in this department. According to 11.11.11, this threatens to strengthen the problems that are at the root of many migratory flows, while the major challenges require us to invest just more in humanitarian aid and structural development cooperation. The OECD started discussions on a new definition of ODA. As European donors face increasing expenditure on the reception of asylum seekers, development organisations fear that these rules will be relaxed. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Do you confirm the numbers calculated by 11.11.11? Does the development cooperation budget for the reception of refugees in their own country fall under the current definition of ODA? How are these funds used for reception? Which partners are working with? What's the key? What is your position on the new definition of the ODA? How do you feel about relaxing this definition in order to be able to bear the increasing expenditure on the refugee crisis from the development aid budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u36	Mr President, the published article of 11.11.11 creates some confusion about the wording. It would appear that expenditure on the reception of refugees comes from the Development Cooperation budget. That is absolutely not the case. Those aren't communicating vessels. There is a budget for development cooperation and that budget is spent. Expenditure on the reception of refugees is not taken from the Development Cooperation budget, but comes from Fedasil and other organisations. Some of them are indeed ODA-accountable, but they are not communicating vessels. In some countries, it is. In Sweden one has a certain budget for OS and shifts from one to another. That's where I understand the concern. In our country, however, it is not the case that resources for development cooperation are being removed to be used for the reception of refugees. According to the definition of official development aid established and monitored at OECD level, expenditure on the reception of refugees from developing countries may be charged as official aid during the first 12 months of their stay. That doesn't mean it's going to be part of my budget. This expenditure is not charged in the budget of Development Cooperation in Belgium. This concerns expenditure incurred by Fedasil, which is subsequently merged with the ODA-accountable expenses of other official Belgian bodies. For your third question, on the budgets of Fedasil, you must address yourself to Fedasil, because I cannot answer that. I come to your fourth question. The recent High Level Meeting of the DAC did indeed reflect on the relationship between development and the refugee crisis, but a relaxation or extension of the rules that allow the allocation of part of this expenditure as ODA was not on the agenda there. In the margins of these reflections, Greece has put forward the idea of extending the period of 12 months to two or even three years, but this is not the case for the time being. Belgium will not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can live with it. In the meantime, I have also received detailed information. It is true that the resources come not from the Department of Development Cooperation, but from Fedasil and other organisations. The idea that the 0.45% of the GNI that we are now achieving through development cooperation would be wrong. We must be correct in that. What goes into development cooperation comes from the budget of Development Cooperation and from the budget for the reception of refugees. That this counts for the first year, I can live with that, but fortunately you support the fact that the rules will not be relaxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u38	Minister, Development Cooperation is being implemented in a broader context of foreign policy. There may be multiple degrees of linkage between development cooperation and other foreign policy objectives, such as compliance with certain human rights, international standards or climate agreements. There are many views about the ethical boundaries and the desirability of these links. Nevertheless, I have a number of questions. Firstly, what is the policy on the role of development cooperation in the wider context of federal foreign policy? What conditions do countries have to fulfil in order to be able to claim development cooperation money from the federal government? Will development cooperation be used as a means of exerting pressure on former or current partner countries to comply with certain international agreements that are not directly linked to development cooperation? We are thinking, for example, of the Hague Children's Abduction Convention of October 1980. Finally, which files have been the subject of this in the last five years? What were the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u39	Mrs Bellens, as has often been mentioned in questions on the subject, the symbiosis between development, inclusive economic growth, human rights, security and diplomacy, food security, climate change and good governance is evident. The world today is also different from the period when the Millennium Goals were decided. The new 2030 SDG Agenda is much more universal in this area and looks at things in a broader context. Traditional development cooperation, with a clear distinction between North and South, rapidly evolves towards international development, based on mutual interests and challenges in global public goods but also in the areas of climate change, security and global public health, and relates to each of us, rich or poor, in North or South. The fact that the root causes of many global issues originate in poverty and inequality is also a fundamental element. The new focus on the least developed countries also reinforces the priority of Belgian Development Cooperation. It focuses on regions which are still heavily dependent on donor aid. The conclusion is that official development aid alone will not be enough and that a policy-based approach as a donor, as well as broadening the funding base for other types of actors, is essential. Development cooperation therefore needs to evolve to remain relevant in that paradigmashif. Moreover, in times of budgetary pressure we must also look at all types of donors. However, it is my ambition to make Belgian development cooperation fit for purpose in the future, including by tightening our focus and reducing fragmentation, but also by working more closely with the private sector, which in no way means a return to tied aid, by seeking synergies with other policy areas, such as migration, and by putting human rights at the centre of our cooperation programmes. You asked what the terms are. The Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation sets out the criteria to be met by partner countries for governmental cooperation. Now I come to your final question. Since January 2015, the special agreements concluded with partner countries have included clauses allowing both parties to terminate the agreement in the event of a deficiency in one of the essential obligations arising from respect for human rights, democratic principles in a rule of law, as well as in cases of corruption. Special agreements shall be concluded within the broader framework of the Cooperation Agreement with the partner countries. Most cooperation agreements contain in the preamble a reference to the United Nations Charter and a number of international agreements. Those general cooperation agreements will in future be reviewed for all partner countries, with a view to making them uniform and including, inter alia, the widest possible reference to international agreements. The most recent cooperation agreement signed with the Republic of Guinea refers in the preamble to a number of international agreements whose principles are recognised by the Parties, such as the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and other instruments of international humanitarian law, and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Allow me to ask another question about something that is not entirely clear to me. Is the Children's Abduction Convention not included in that list of treaties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u41	That's right, that's not what it says.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u42	Minister, international attention is increasingly focused on cash transfers as an instrument in international development. The studies and projects already carried out in this context also produce positive results. The vast majority of people who receive cash transfers use them wisely. People use this money, for example, to send their children to school or to feed them better. The recipients of a cash transfer indicate that they prefer it to receive physical assistance. It gives them the freedom to make choices for themselves and for their families about how they will spend this money. The local economies, in turn, are also involved. How do you stand with regard to cash transfers as an instrument in international development? Do you see opportunities, for example in combination with digital technologies? Can you give us any explanation? The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, a multilateral partner of Belgium, also has programmes designed to strengthen communities through cash transfers. The multiplier effect is strong: every euro we invest becomes two for the community, according to FAO. Can you explain how cash transfers are still used by our partners in addition to this example? How do you evaluate the use of cash transfers in this context? Are cash transfers already part of the toolbox of your policy? If not, do you think it would be useful to look into this further? If so, in what way? Will cash transfers gain in importance in the future? The next question goes a little deeper into this and deals specifically with the use of cash transfers as an instrument for humanitarian aid. Does our country use these cash transfers in the humanitarian aid it provides? Can you explain the circumstances and the amount? What do you think are the benefits of cash transfers, specifically in the case of humanitarian aid? Are there certain circumstances or conditions that improve the use of cash transfers in humanitarian aid? Do you identify current humanitarian crises in which, in your opinion, our country or the international community could use cash transfers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u43	Mrs Lijnen, in the context of humanitarian aid, cash transfers are already possible today. Article 5 (2) of the Royal Decree on Humanitarian Aid of 19 April 2014 explicitly provides for that possibility. Within the framework of a project or programme, the Minister may allow gifts in specimens to victims if they are used for the local purchase of goods essential for the relief of basic needs of victims. Cash transfers can therefore be part of a humanitarian project (up to 18 months) or a humanitarian programme (up to 30 months). In addition to FAO, any organisation recognised as a humanitarian actor may submit a project or programme which is wholly or partly cash-based. The cash transfers may or may not be conditioned. The UN organisations that are mainly active in the field of cash transfers are the World Food Programme, the UN Office for Refugees and the agency for the reception of Palestinian refugees. A recent example co-financed by Belgium is the UNRWA project, worth 1.5 million on cash assistance for Palestinian refugees in Syria. This will support around 25 000 refugees in their priority needs. Thanks to the project, they can make their own choices in all dignity. A special financing of 2.45 million allows for rehabilitation and reconstruction of shelters in Gaza and provides mental health care in Cisjordania. In Gaza, Belgian funding also focuses on cash assistance for repairs and reconstruction. In the past, therefore, Belgium has already financed several humanitarian projects with a cash transfer component. Last year I approved a project for cash transfers to Palestinian refugees in Syria. In their contacts with the various organisations, my services always try to check whether cash transfers are possible. It will, of course, depend on the context. In some cases, cooperation with the private sector is also possible to use cash in digitised form, for example via credit cards. In future, I intend to finance development projects with a cash transfer component, regardless of the humanitarian crisis. The use of cash transfers can stimulate the local economy through a multiplier effect. Cash transfers are also not patronizing. They assume that the beneficiary himself knows best what his or her needs are and how they should be repaid. The condition is, however, that abuse should be avoided in the case of allocation. This can indeed be done through the use of modern technologies. There are relatively few abuses in the use of funds, since they are relatively small amounts. Cash transfers should be used after a context analysis. In the absence of a local economy, cash transfers can lead to inflation. That must of course be avoided. Many new initiatives are currently being taken in Belgian development policy, such as the use of digital technologies as leverage, a greater focus on the local private sector and the mobilisation of local tax resources. Cash transfers belong to that too, but we can't do everything at once. I am asking for a little patience, knowing that we are already doing it in our humanitarian interventions and keeping our eyes open to do so also in the field of development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and I fully agree with you that this has a great economic multiplier effect and that it is little patronising. People are going to make their own choices about what they think is important. I can only endorse that. I'll certainly be patient with that. It was a very good answer. We will see how we can further roll this out in the future in full development cooperation. I have one small question, but I don't know if you can answer it now. If you say that it may occasionally be conditioned, does this also apply to the projects you have listed, including through cash assistance? You can also tell me in writing, but it would be interesting to know in which cases one chooses conditioning and in which cases one does not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u45	I should check. I don't have the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u46	Minister, we're on the same subject. In your interest of more efficiency - efficiency is your leitmotiv - you want to reduce the number of NGOs recognised by the Belgian State. Among other things, to be able to reduce the number of cases handled by your administration and also to justify and increase the decrease in the number of jobs in the same administration. In particular, you have put in place an expensive screening process to which the 108 ACNG (Actors of Non-Governmental Cooperation) are going. It will determine whether the CNGs are eligible for subsidies from DGD (Directorate-General for Development Cooperation). In parallel to the preparation of this screening, the NLCAs have spent very many hours preparing the CCAs (common contextual analyses) and are preparing proactively, while the legal framework is not yet determined, the CSCs (common strategic frameworks) to prepare their next 2017-2021 program. The time they devote to the preparation of all these documents is significant and certainly does not contribute to the administrative simplification that you have announced. However, it is a paradox that under increased controls, more and more returns bear witness to the fact that people, rather than doing the work on which they are controlled, spend their days filling documents allowing them to pass these famous screens. According to the information circulating, the result of this screening will not be known, in the best case, until mid-April. Only then will the NGAC know if they will have the opportunity to apply for funding from DGD for their 2017-2021 program. The Framework Agreement (FCA) to regulate the granting of subsidies for the new program is still under negotiation. This implies a great deal of uncertainty in the sector because the CNGs do not know, ten months from the beginning of the next programme, whether they will be recognised, what will be the modalities for the introduction of their new programme - since the framework agreement which will determine it is still being prepared by your administration - or what will be the dates of the next important deadlines. With regard to this last point, we mention, without any certainty, a date for the delivery of the 2017-2021 programmes to 30 September 2016, with a reply from you, at the earliest, in mid-November. This would mean that, in the best of scenarios, the NLCAs will only be set six weeks before the start of their next program on their possible funding. This is a lack of seriousness in relation to projects that are taking place at least in the medium term. When will the NLCAs be set out on the terms and key dates for the submission of their new 2017-2021 program? How do you intend to ensure that the delay you have made in drawing up the new framework agreement is not detrimental to them? At ten months from the beginning of the new programme, would it not be more reasonable to return to the current legislation for its preparation, given the current blurry? Cuts in funding for CNG programs are mentioned, with a minimum of 8.5% starting in 2017. Do you confirm this number? Could it be even more important?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u47	Mr Hedebouw, the Belgian Development Cooperation Act provides in Article 26, § 1, that organisations receiving a subsidy from the non-governmental cooperation budget shall be approved. This approval shall be valid for a period of ten years. The previous screening was conducted by PwC in 2006 and 2007. It is on the basis of its findings that a public procurement has been launched at European level, in accordance with the legislation in force. The tenders were examined in the light of the regulatory procedures. The award was granted to Deloitte. You say I want to reduce the number of NGOs. That's incorrect. In reality, I want to strengthen the quality of management and the control of risk by those who receive hundreds of millions of euros annually from the taxpayer. I also want to reduce the administrative burden for both the CNGs and my administration. In doing so, I am implementing the Royal Decree on the subsidization of the ACNGs, which my predecessor issued to the Belgian Monitor on 25 April 2014. I don't do more or less. It is true that in the meantime I have concluded an agreement which includes several points which are important for both the cooperants and the Belgian State: more flexible funding, while ensuring that it remains accessible to all authorised actors; respect for the right of initiative of the ACNGs, while reducing its erosion; administrative simplification; legal and budgetary security. I have translated this agreement into a bill amending the Belgian Development Cooperation Act 2013. I hope that the government will approve it in the coming days and that Parliament will do the same as soon as possible. My employees maintain daily contact with the representatives of the ACNG. At each interview, they confirm their commitment to this legislative amendment. They do not want to go back to the old law designed by my predecessor, which, in their view, offers less legal and budgetary certainty. I confirm that the agreement concluded provides for a saving of 8.5% in commitment appropriations from 2017 for the CNGs. This economy is in line with the budgetary restrictions decided by the government at the time of its formation. This 8.5% saving was agreed with the ACNGs, which no doubt found their interest in it. I intend to honour this agreement with the actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u48	Minister, I note that you are only responding to me in budgetary terms. Remains the problem of not being aware; it is a real problem. We have no answer: either, we will do without. I can hear your comments on the budgetary framework in which you are located. The aim is not to reduce the number of recognized NGOs, but that is still what is going to happen. You are telling me that this is done in the name of budgetary efficiency. You're going to tell me that it's not just you who decide. At the same time, you compared with other countries, but we do not reach 0.7%. This is the ideological framework through which you are trying to put pressure on all actors on the ground today. In doing so, we are not meeting our international commitments: 0.7 per cent is 0.7. That's not a small number. In the name of some efficiency, you are pushing all these actors to produce a lot of bureaucracy; this is a first problem, but you are also pushing them to be unable to project. You're talking about legal certainty, but it's even less present now. Six weeks from January 1st, no information is forthcoming. Mr.Minister, I do not think we will agree, but we will follow the matter closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u49	Mr Minister, the Law of 21 December 1998 establishing the Belgian Technical Co-operative (BTC) in the form of a company of public law with a social purpose provides that the Court of Auditors is to draw up an annual report on the performance of the public service tasks entrusted to the company. The report on activities in 2014 has recently been available. The Court of Auditors participated in five audit missions of the College of Commissioners in 2014, which enabled the administrative and accounting organisation of five local representations and 19 projects to be examined. The result concerns me, because the audits identified shortcomings relating to the administrative and accounting organisation, as well as the application of social and tax regulations and public procurement rules. With regard to the procedure, award and execution of public contracts, it was found that different basic principles were not always respected, such as transparent award, equal treatment of tenderers, competition, flat rate, the principle of services provided and accepted and information to tenderers. Implementation agreements were concluded through projects to allow local partners to implement certain performances, but these agreements are not always sufficiently followed up and monitored. According to the Court of Auditors, therefore, a coherent framework for the monitoring and accounting follow-up of these agreements should be implemented. In addition, local representatives' staff should be more systematic on-the-spot in projects to monitor accounting and public procurement. I have the following questions, Minister. How do you explain the shortcomings raised by the Court of Auditors in its report? What solutions do you see to remedy these shortcomings? Have you been with the BTC about that? What is their response to the report? What arrangements are being made for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u50	I'd like to outline the context first. The BTC has, as a company of public law, a college of Commissioners, consisting of two counsellors of the Court of Auditors and two independent company auditors. On the basis of risk analyses of the company's activities, the College organises specific audit activities, which in turn form the basis for the annual statement on the loyalty of a company's financial accounts. On 1 June 2015, the College of Commissioners issued a statement without reservation on the financial statements 2014. If it is based on an assessment of the internal control systems, this means that the College in fact indicates that the quality of internal control is sufficient to certify the financial accounts. This does not mean that internal control is perfect. This is not realistic from the point of view of costs and benefits, because it will give all the resources to monitoring and no resources to implementation. However, the Commissioners indicated that, for the purposes of carrying out the public service missions and tasks carried out in developing countries, the BTC is exposed to an increased degree of risk impairment, errors and fraud. For this reason, the BTC not only has an internal control system that is assessed by the college, but also organises additional, more detailed audit audits of its programme performances and interventions. These audits are carried out by audit organisations that meet international standards and contribute to the learning and improvement process for the BTC's internal and administrative processes. Moreover, the BTC's internal control system has recently been recognised by the European Commission for a period of four years, so that its resources can be allocated in the context of international development projects without having to participate in public procurement. However, not all errors and defects will be immediately detected and resolved. That's why we have oversight. The BTC operates in a permanently changing context, given the countries in which it operates. It is therefore very important for the College of Commissioners that the BTC continues to make efforts to ensure that in every context it has the correct administrative organisation to properly justify its expenditure. The context and way the BTC works with the government of another country determines which systems the BTC can and can use. In accordance with the 2005 Paris Declaration, she tries to use the partners' systems as much as possible. In concrete terms, this means that the BTC sometimes makes use of local regulation in relation to public procurement, because it allows this local regulation to evolve and grow into a transparent and usable system. The BTC doesn't do this blindly. Prior to using a particular system, the BTC shall carry out prior assessments identifying the risk statements in order to optimally organise internal controls, taking into account the concerns of the systems that will be used. In many cases, the partner is also asked to adapt systems on his side. However, especially for the partner, this is often a growth path where certain problems can occur several times before they are resolved. Proposals are not submitted in time, technical data sheets are not complete or not completed; these are all points of interest which the auditors of the Court of Auditors, who have a great deal of expertise in this matter, put forward. There are also regular problems with the completeness of files, with an unclear mandate of tenderers and so on. Finally, we also sometimes see problems with the verification of statements of honour, with the indication of references or with the declared professional experience which is difficult to verify. However, this does not mean that we should simply abandon the use of these systems automatically. We are committed to the continuous improvement of these systems. The use of the partner's systems, provided certain conditions are met, forms a basis for the improvement of these systems and thus a result of our development cooperation. The College has an important role to play in this. After each audit, the College shall draw up a working document containing observations, comments and shortcomings. This document then gives rise to follow-up within the BTC's control department itself and to the development of a specific plan of approach. In addition, findings are discussed on the internal audit committee. The Committee may issue additional opinions. The plan of action will be submitted to the College, which will be able to verify whether it has been implemented on the basis of follow-up audits. With regard to fraud and corruption, I would like to point out that the BTC has an integrity agency that investigates in depth reports of alleged integrity violations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The report shows that there are a number of points of interest. Next week we have an exchange of views with the BTC. Then We can ask them how they will follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u52	Mr President, Minister, one of your main intentions in your capacity as Minister for Development Cooperation is to focus on digitisation in the partner countries of federal development cooperation. In your policy paper, you indicate that investment in digital solutions can bring significant added value for sustainable, inclusive economic development. Opposite that statement, the World Bank in a recent report, Digital Divideds, indicates that mere digitization is not the Holy Grail. Adequate attention should continue to be paid to a wide range of instruments that support digitisation to a sufficient extent, including equal opportunities, education and health. If this does not happen, digitalisation can even slow down development. I have a few questions for you. What lessons do you draw from the World Bank report? What actions do you take to ensure that digitisation in partner countries is fostered in synergy with traditional development instruments? How do you achieve synergies between digitisation and traditional development cooperation, for example in the joint committees, such as those of Guinea and Burkina Faso? How do you stimulate synergies between digitisation and traditional development tools in the ANGS CSFs? Will digitisation projects be part of the calls you will unsubscribe in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mrs Bellens' analysis. Indeed, there are more people on a mobile phone today than there are people who have drinking water. There are indeed advantages to digitisation. However, these advantages are unevenly distributed. Without sustained and sustained efforts in the areas of health, social protection and education, digitalisation makes no sense. What does it mean to have a tablet when one cannot read? However, I have listened carefully. You said yesterday that digitalisation is a difficult issue in fragile or least developed countries. It's not easy to integrate them. You have made it clear that different strategies are necessary to introduce digitalisation. What conclusions do you draw from the World Bank report yourself? You have a strategy paper in preparation. When will this be completed? Maybe she's finished yet? What are the main lines there? I would also like to quote Jim Yong Kim, the President of the World Bank: "This digital revolution does not change the fundamental development mission in fragile states." You always need stable and functioning institutions first. There are other quotes. So how will you ensure that the primary objectives of development cooperation remain primary objectives, in the areas of health, education and social protection? What parameters will be used for these sectors and for digitisation? I also understood yesterday that you are working to convert the SDGs into the budget. I believe this is a useful exercise. If that were to work, we would welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u54	Minister, the world is rapidly digitizing. Without offline development, however, that technical revolution threatens to fall silent in large parts of the world. This is stated by the World Bank in the new Digital Dividends report. Betting on digitalisation does indeed have an effect. You want to bet on that, too. We see that sometimes more people have access to a mobile phone today than to clean water. Internet users have doubled to 3.2 billion in ten years. This means that 40% of the world's population is connected. The positive effects, such as better opportunities for communication and a wider world view, speak for themselves. However, according to the report, this does not make the lives of the poorest in the world any better. For example, productivity has not improved, the Internet is currently creating disappointingly few opportunities for the poorest and has little impact on the way governments account for their people. According to World Bank researchers, there is still insufficient attention to the offline situation of people. Digitisation can only deliver on towering ambitions if countries also struggle in matters such as education, health care, good governance and a good investment climate. I would like to conclude with a quote from the report: Connecting the world is essential, but far from enough to create more equality. I have a number of questions for you, Minister. My fellow Members have already asked questions, and I would like to repeat them. To what extent is your digitalisation policy consistent with the World Bank's conclusions? What's the status? What steps have you already taken on digitisation and what are still planned? Yesterday you explained a few things about this, but I would have liked a little more information. Will the digitalisation of development cooperation focus on cooperation with multilateral organisations or also on bilateral cooperation? You also want to invest in the private sector. Is there anything clear in that direction? What role could the private sector take? How will you ensure that the poorest can also benefit from the benefits that digitalisation has to offer? What priority do the European Union and the EU Member States give to digitalisation in their development policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u55	Mr President, on 4 February, I did indeed take part in a presentation of the World Development Report 2016: Digital Dividends of the World Bank in Brussels, together with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Andrus Ansip.The exponential growth of the use of mobile phones in our partner countries speaks to the imagination, with the potential of m-services. At the same time, we are also aware that our partner countries are the ones where the building blocks for the transformational aspects of digital technology occur in the most fragile form. That is precisely where the population has so far been able to taste the least of the benefits of digitalisation. Indeed, my development cooperation policy focuses on digitisation as a means and leverage for development, where digitalisation is not an end in itself. Consequently, no separate budget or instrument for digitisation has been created. Digitalisation is to be integrated into all existing channels and instruments. The intention is therefore not that digitisation is in competition with the current objectives, but rather that it strengthens. I have instructed my administration to draw up a strategy paper on digitalisation for development in the entire Belgian Development Cooperation. Thus, for all channels of Belgian cooperation, we are looking at how we can strategically focus on the transformational added value of digitalisation, while taking into account the associated risks and limitations. This strategy paper will concretely develop the next steps in this policy. Like the previous Strategy Papers, it will also be published on the FPS website. In 2016, a call for proposals would be launched in four partner countries, the DRC, Rwanda, Tanzania and the Palestinian territories. A specific call will be launched for projects on the digitisation of human rights. These projects will be financed by the basic allocation for social construction and good governance. I see an important role for all the actors in Belgian development cooperation. Several multilateral organisations such as the World Bank and the UN agencies are already proactively committed to digitalisation for development and we want to support and encourage them. For bilateral cooperation, the BTC is also active to further develop its expertise in this field. I also see an important role for the private sector and the Belgian digital ecosystem, as the digitisation process is mainly driven by them. We are therefore engaged in dialogue with these actors to explore how they can make an active contribution to development cooperation in this area. I also expect non-governmental cooperation to meet the challenge of digitalisation. I have shown in a letter to the sector what opportunities digitalisation brings to development cooperation. Indeed, I expect these actors to integrate digitisation into their joint strategic frameworks. This will be given importance in the appreciation for the adoption of these frameworks. The actors of Belgian Development Cooperation are already exploring the possibilities of digitalisation. For example, the Be-cause health platform organises its annual seminar on 24 and 25 March with the theme Health 2.0: Are we ready to go digital? The actors are also interested in setting up a similar platform specifically for Digital for Development. I am, of course, prepared to support that effort. Digitisation is a two-edged sword with regard to inequality. The World Bank has correctly stated in its report that digitisation does not automatically lead to greater equality and even greater inequality. I will therefore be particularly careful to ensure that the Digital for Development Strategy Paper for Belgian Development Cooperation clearly sets out how it can contribute positively to more inclusive growth and how risk derivatives will be controlled on greater inequality. For example, it is important that digitisation helps to strengthen the position of women. On 9 July 2015, on the eve of the Summit on Financing for Development in Addis Ababa, 15 EU Member States sent a joint letter on my initiative to High Representative Mogherini and Commissioner Mimica. It specifically called for more attention to be paid to digitalisation in development cooperation. The result is that the European Commission is organising a meeting of experts on the subject with the Member States on 14 March. Belgium will play a leading role in this. A note will be drawn up, which will be submitted to the European Council in May. Several EU Member States also give high priority to the issue. For example, in December last year France adopted an action plan on digitisation and development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u56	Minister, when will the strategy paper be ready? It would be useful to discuss it in Parliament because it is a new sector which we do not know very well. Nor do we know what actions can be linked to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u57	Mr Koen Van Acoleyen of the administration is working on this. Of course, you can always invite him or ask him the question. We're definitely working on it. Hopefully it'll be before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic351x.u58	Minister, I had the same question as Mrs Van Hoof to see how we can discuss this matter further in Parliament. After all, this is a new area. It would therefore be interesting to see to what extent you can use your digitalisation experience in developing countries. We look forward to further evolution and discussion.
