ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u2	We shall resume the discussion of the Government's statement. We resume the discussion of the government's statement. I call Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The next speaker is Mr Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I actually have the impression that we are having a debate on the State of the Union for the second time this year. I thought we had a debate last Thursday, although a rather virtual debate. Last Thursday, I heard colleagues from the opposition use great words, because the government was not ready for its policy statement. The opposition mainly suspected that the government would take measures that would affect the common man in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the disadvantage that I have been working with this for a number of years, and that has taught me that many rumours and speculations, Mr Dewael, will certainly be able to confirm that reality often exceeds. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the real declaration of government and I note that a whole series of measures, which the opposition thought the government would take, were not taken. That's the difference between the virtual and the real reality. The government has not decided on a second index jump. The government has not changed the index basket, as the previous government did. The government has not limited unemployment in time. It has not reinforced the degressivity. It has not introduced the resource check for replacement income. It does not make blind savings in public health. It does not, rightly, save on safety either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u4	Mr Verherstraeten, you are today the bravest of the Gauls. In this way you will begin your speech, on the day of the worldwide resistance to poverty, which bears witness to a great deal of courage and, at the same time, self-sacrifice. You say, first of all, that there were all kinds of rumors and that it is not all that bad. Mr Verherstraeten, the savings on the benefits of people in poverty is not a rumor. The blocking of employees' salaries is not a rumor. The reduction in the minimum wages of young workers is not a rumor. The fact that this government is largely passing the effort on to people who are having a hard time is not a rumor, but a tough reality, apparently with the approval of CD&V. Secondly, you are warning about virtual debates. Colleague, we're having a virtual debate. There are no answers to the most important questions today. This morning I started by asking about the solution to the ARCO problem: what, when, how and why nothing is included in the budgetary tables. There was no answer, in other words, a virtual debate! (Loud protest from Mr Van Rompuy)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u5	Mr Van Rompuy, you will have the floor later. We'll have a proper discussion, and Mr Calvo, you'll finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u6	I understand the nervousness in Christian-democratic circles. Mr Verherstraeten warns of a virtual debate. But if we do not know, Mr Verherstraeten, what will happen now with the honest contribution of the greatest abilities, then today we have another virtual debate. Then everyone asks the question: how can a Christian Democrat live with that? Why does a Christian Democrat with such conviction stand on the floor? Why aren't you a little clearer against your coalition partners, who, on the day of the State of the Union, on the day of the global resistance to poverty, have made a very annoying day for people who are already struggling? Then why don't you act harder against your coalition partners, who are helping to ensure that we now, unfortunately, have some sort of virtual debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u7	Mr Verherstraeten, you started by pointing out that the opposition held a virtual debate on the basis of rumours and speculation last week. We have held a debate in response to the fight you and your party have waged. The crisis arose because your party felt that too much had been asked of the people and that it was now time to introduce an added value tax. You state that you did not do what we thought you would do. That's right: there is no added value tax. So stop blaming the opposition for spreading rumors and formulating speculations. It is your party that has thrown the speculations and rumours into the hemisphere, while you are now admitting that you are not repeating today the index jump and the tax increases you made in 2015. So that wasn't the opposition. I simply note that your party has failed to implement the added value tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u8	Mr Verherstraeten has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u9	Mr President, I did not get the impression when I heard Mr Calvo that he wanted to ask a question. Rather, I thought he wanted to make a statement on selective points. Mrs Kitir, of course I will return to the value added tax when I speak, if I have the opportunity to do so by all of you. The government has been taking action for two years and has followed a continuous, balanced and reasonable line in this respect. Its measures may also be assessed in their entirety. We did indeed once take an index jump. The National Bank of Belgium says that this index jump has resulted in additional jobs. However, Mrs Kitir, we have not increased taxes, as you have just mentioned, but reduced them. Who in the first place have we done this for? That was just before the lowest incomes. What were we reading in a Flemish quality newspaper a few weeks ago? The lowest incomes are the great victors and the current government redistributes from higher incomes to lower incomes. We will indeed reduce the gross income of young people a little bit. Mrs. Kitir, did you listen to the Prime Minister this morning? Did you listen when he declared that the reduction would be net? Have you heard the passage about the runways? Our measures will create thousands of additional jobs. I never hear the opposition talking about those young people who, thanks to government measures, do have a job today, which they didn't have yesterday. If we have not taken certain measures in social security, then the government has done so very consciously. We are aware that early economic growth must be distributed fairly and properly. The economy benefits from a good distribution of prosperity, so does a society. I have heard a great deal of criticism from the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is her job, and of course we do not blame her. We have heard them mostly about a measure on the left and right, which they do not want and which they consider to be bad. For example, I have not heard from the opposition that the budget should be mordicus in 2018. We know why we didn't hear that. Then the opposition must confess colour, then it must say where savings will be made, how much and who will be saved; then it will have to decide where to tax and who and how much will be taxed, and that is more difficult than simply criticising an individual measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u10	So, Mr Verherstraeten, you clearly do not understand what is meant when it comes to making large assets pay. That's kind of the problem with CD&V. From the beginning, you were talking about a symbol that shouldn't be worth anything. That is the budgetary problem. You say that you want a balance in 2018, but then the question arises as to where we will get the money for it. That's mathematically the debate. You have opened an interesting debate by saying that it is time for the broadest shoulders to contribute the most. CD&V has opened that debate in the majority. What's the government saying now? She says the case will be studied. Mr Verherstraeten, why is there no study on the influence of government measures on the number of people who will receive another pension? That will not be studied, but it will be decided today. It is also decided today that young people receive less money without studying it. However, there will be a study in a few years' time on the measures to be taken in respect of the major assets. Mr Verherstraeten, a bit of principle! I thought CD&V had some principles and would say this is her red line. What do we see, however? Once again, CD&V doesn't bring in anything. After the first tax shift and the second tax shift, it's nothing today. Mr Verherstraeten, have some principles. It is time for the left in Flanders to make some noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u11	Mr President, let me say a little bit about the budget path. What you're saying is a little strange. Remember: strict respect for the fiscal trajectory was a strong demand from the Liberals and the N-VA. The first time I asked to relax this trajectory - at the time, we had to be in balance around 2015 - it was terrible: "But at last, what inconsequence, how can we do that!" I thought that was the only solution and that is what we have done to avoid austerity and rather to set up a strict policy. You are coming in force, the Liberals and the N-VA, and you say, "In any case, with us, it's the balance in 2018." All we see is that you won't get it! That's impossible! You are not even able to comply with the European directive on the reduction of the structural deficit and on the debt. Nor are you going to comply with the additional obligations that you have put on your back as part of your government agreement. We simply want sincerity and honesty, rather than saying "goed bestuur", just say that you are not doing it and that you are abandoning this prospect of budgetary balance. That would simply be more honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u12	Mr Onkelinx, if we look at budgets and multiannual plans through the history of Belgian politics, I think it is always good to tighten the bow as tight as possible, so that the arrow starts as high as possible, because during his flight he always falls. It is true that we will find it difficult to achieve the path that Europe is imposing on us. That won't be obvious. Economic growth in 2017 remains to be seen. Mr Onkelinx, I am not ashamed or shy of that. I'll never renounce my past either. We have seen the same thing in the past legislature: we have set a high target, aimed at achieving a budget balance in 2016, but we have not achieved that. There were reasons for that. Economic growth was less strong than many economists had predicted. The current government is also confronted with this. We must therefore make the best of it and certainly not turn it into a politico d'austérité, which is a source of economic growth. That is why we are using the three billion. Take a look at the new measures. You've been given the government's figures. These are new measures amounting to 1.8 billion. You will see a third increase in charges, a third savings and a third other measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is a fair and just compromise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u13	Mr Verherstraeten, Mrs Onkelinx wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u14	You're putting a hell of a pressure on yourself and making a policy that doesn't serve economic development. So you have bad growth results. That's what's wrong. On the other hand, I wanted to react to what you said: "It is better to have very high goals to do a little less." This reminds me of your colleague Mark Eyskens, who always said that "it is better to have his values very high so that he can pass right below". You preserve the Christian tradition!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u15	Mrs. Onkelinx, I do not share your opinion. If one doesn't want to jump far, one can never get far. I think that there is quite a bit of ambition in this area to succeed. Let us look at the budget. We are being accused of saving money in social security and in health. That is true, and so have the previous governments. Despite these measures, however, the social security budget is increasing. We're just slowing down growth. The Minister of Health is here. There has been a lot to do this morning about savings in health. What will we see in the budget over the next two years? Over the next two years, the budget for health will increase by 1.2 billion. We have indeed taken action there. Let's take a look at them. Three-fourths, almost 700 million is in agreement with the Medicomut and with the health insurance funds. I've had and will continue to have faith in the social partners all my life. If they agree, I am confident that they are just measures and that they are fairly divided. Let us look at the additional measures. Just over 200 million, what's the lion's share? Those are the care providers, where we save by working on indexation. They provide the bulk of the additional measures. Is there such an objection that we invest more in generic medicines, so that the patient is treated equally well and can heal equally quickly, but that it costs society less? We have spared the patient maximum of savings in the area of health. The poverty line, that is also our concern. You have rightly mentioned measures we are taking in relation to the welfare envelope. Last year and this year, this government invested EUR 621 million in the welfare envelope. That's 31% more than the previous government. All minimum and flat rates have increased by 2 %, the calculation ceilings have increased by 1.25 % and the living wage has increased by 6 %. This year and next year we invest no less, we invest more, namely 515 million or 16% more than the previous government did. What do we ask the social partners? Do not divide that widely and widely, be selective in your choices and focus on those who have it most difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has made a great deal of effort in a difficult context of prosperity development. We must not put that under the seats or sofas. This government is doing even more, it's doing even better in difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u16	Mr Verherstraeten, we were not in the previous government and we can therefore reflect on this. Honestly, you are very brave, because I did not expect you to include the defence of the welfare envelope. I remember last year's debates and the year before. The answer to the index jump and to the bill increases, including yours as the group leader of CD&V, was that you would take good care of the people who are having a hard time. You would apply 100 % of the welfare envelope. That was then widely shared, widely distributed, an election promise from CD&V. You have to come back to that today. I find that harsh, especially after last week's discussion. Mr Verherstraeten, you have had to make every effort for a week to convince your fellow Members to make a contribution to those who book EUR 50 000 added value on shares. Today, you tell people in poverty, people who are having a hard time, that everyone has to contribute a bit, I quote you, this morning on the radio. Well, on the day of the world's fight against poverty, I absolutely don't understand. I don't understand how you can defend that saving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u17	Mr Calvo, I have just said in my speech that we do not consider this measure to be obvious, that we do not have the courage to do so, but that we have tried to spread all the new measures we have taken as widely as possible. We're not taking anything away from anyone. We're just spending a little less. That's all it is. Moreover, this is combined with other measures, such as lower taxes for those who find a job, because there are also people with jobs who live in poverty. With lower taxes, we can make up for such measures. I think that, in a budgetary context, this government is making a great deal of effort for those who are the most difficult to deal with, even more so than the previous government did. This is a good measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u18	Mr Verherstraeten, you say not to take anything away from the people. I would like to return to the brief history of this government. There has been an index jump that would be compensated for the lowest incomes and for those living in poverty. That index jump was not compensated, not for the lowest incomes nor for the people living in poverty. You are talking about the welfare envelope, which was the solution to the index jump. You said that the welfare envelope under the previous government was only used for 85%. However, there was no index jump in the previous legislature. There is no compensation for that index jump either. Don't tell me there's been an index jump. Do I need to explain again what the difference between purchasing power and wages rising? There has been no index jump under the previous government. With this government, there has been an index jump. Moreover, Mr Verherstraeten, the welfare envelope that has been applied so far is not 100 percent because the child benefit has been taken out. Do I have to repeat that? I am not saying that it was applied for 100% under the previous government. You say that. It has been applied at 85 %. There is another loss for those living in poverty, for the lowest pensions and for the lowest incomes. Mr Verherstraeten, you have come here to defend that the welfare envelope will be reduced once again. So two times no compensation and now another reduction in the welfare envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u19	Mr President, I believe that sp.a. is in a particularly poor position to learn about such a subject. What is the reality? The reality, Mr. Vande Lanotte, is that sp.a invented the hidden index jump, disguised as a trippy in the indexing mechanism. At the time, you reduced the wellness envelope to 60%. The latter was increased to 100 per cent. Currently, it is 16% higher than you had decided under the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u20	Prime Minister, you say that we have reduced VAT on electricity, so that wages and benefits should not be indexed. You also say that you have increased VAT and on top of that you have also made an index jump. According to you, the last government made a cover-up index jump. This morning we received lessons in mathematics. We have just received lessons in physics. I suggest you look at those lessons again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u21	Mr President, just the facts. Under the previous legislature, the decision was taken to reduce VAT on electricity and this was booked as a revenue in the budget as a result of the effects on indexation. This government has decided to reduce the tax and parafiscal burden of EUR 3.4 billion on the people working, particularly the low and middle wages. Those are the facts!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u22	Mr President, I am not going to talk about history, because the index basket was also changed by the previous government by the solders, mobile phones and so on. However, let us talk about this government. What you just said, Mr Temmerman, is not correct. We have compensated, which is why the living wage has risen by 6%. Pull off the index jump and then one still comes at about 4 % increase. We have raised the lowest pensions. We've given pensioners vacation money. We have taken fiscal measures which have benefited the lowest incomes. A government that spends more than EUR 5 billion in social security over the next two years, two and three billion euros next year, is not a social-destruction government but a social-justice government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u23	Mr Verherstraeten, I think you have also read the report of the poverty association. If things were going so well and poverty was to be reduced, they should not be writing reports of this kind. Maybe you should read this again. You say that the lowest pensions have been increased, Mr Verherstraeten. That's right. But have you also read the conditions that must be met in order to increase those lowest pensions? One must have a career of 45 years worked. Who's the biggest victim of that, Mr Verherstraeten? The women, because they barely get 26 years of full career, or if it goes very well to barely 30. You are now saying that the lowest pensions have been increased. They are indeed raised, very exceptional, for the people who have a career of 45 years. For a lot of people, including single women with children who are currently having a very difficult time, this has not been increased at all and no compensation has been made. Where is the social face over which you always blow so high off the tower?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u24	I am pleased that you acknowledge that the lowest pensions have been increased. Nor will you deny that we have granted holiday money in this respect. Nor will you deny, Mr Temmerman, that the tax shift and the tax changes have also affected the net income of many pensioners in this area. I'll come to taxation. In the field of taxation, too, we are calling for people's efforts, especially those with capital. If we increase a withholding tax of 27 % to 30%, this means that the withholding tax will double between 2011 and 2016. We're doubling the stock market tax ceiling. We avoid tax circumvention through internal added value in companies. We're charging the fuel cards. Six hundred million, especially people with capital. Last week we had the debate on fair taxation. Our question didn't fall out of the sky. Many sometimes refer to recommendations from the European Commission, for example on labour market reform. You're right. But we read the recommendations of the European Commission as a whole. They also recommend a simple and fair tax, as it is included in the government agreement. Last week I heard a colleague say that the tax burden is too high and that we should not look for what else we can tax. I agree. I am not being explained that we would fundamentally increase the tax burden, but I am not being explained that a worker of a multinational that performs an overtime and pays tax on it, whereas the CEO of the same multinational, when he receives shares and cashes added value, would not have to pay taxes on them. I can't explain that. I don't even get it explained to an investor who receives dividends and pays 30% tax on them, while a colleague investor of his doesn't have to pay taxes in a company where he doesn't pay dividends and where he collects profits, which actually increases the value of the shares. The higher we increase the withholding tax, the more we leave the other. This is how we create discrimination and injustice. However, I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that those who take risks should be rewarded. Those who are very successful and very strong may also pay an extra fair contribution. At the beginning of my speech, I spoke about things that the government did not decide. I come to the other elements that the government has not decided on yet: the reform of corporation tax, the tax on capital gains and shares and the activation of savings in the economy. I consider these three important dossiers, three necessary dossiers, three desirable dossiers, each of them. I address myself to the Prime Minister. I see the Minister of Finance is absent for a moment, but he will be back shortly. He knows our starting points in this respect. A reform of corporate taxation is necessary because we, as a small country, do not live on an island alone and countries around us are also engaged in these reforms. This reform must, however, focus on promoting employment. It must also be fair and SME-friendly. Finally, we agreed that this reform should be budget-neutral. That is four important principles. In my view, there is another important point of departure. The reform of corporate taxation in our country is important, but as a small country in Europe we also have a voice to express, in the sense that we, as friendly European countries, should not continue to fight each other with a race to the bottom. Successful companies need to pay a fair contribution wherever they are in Europe, so that we do not compete with falling taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u25	Mr Verherstraeten, you set out some conditions for the reform of corporate tax, in which I find myself. However, I heard from the press that these conditions were met. Should I understand from that that the conditions that you now lay down were not fulfilled in Minister Van Overtveldt's proposal? I heard the Minister say that the conditions were fulfilled, that the agreement was concluded and perfectly budget neutral, with employment as an additional bonus. If I understand you correctly, you agree with those conditions, but if they were not approved by the government and are not presented to Parliament today, then I assume they have not yet been fulfilled in Minister Van Overtveldt's proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u26	Mr Vanvelthoven, on the issue of the important triptych, I have already made our group's position very clear today. We are in no way opposed to reform. On the contrary, we are in favour of reform. For me, the texts of that triptych can come to the government table as well as detailed drafts with opinions from various bodies, for example the National Bank and the Supreme Court for Finance. Parliament and, if necessary, the Court of Auditors may then examine the texts. We will not take risks, but neither will we avoid this reform. I'm glad you agree with the starting points. I also believe that these principles are important for an added value tax on shares. Of course, such a tax should also be fair and SME-friendly. That is one of the reasons why we have proposed not to introduce the added value tax for SMEs. We have also advocated an important foot exemption and an exemption in case of reinvestment, precisely in order to comply with these principles. I think it is important that the third part is also filled in: how can we activate savings to create additional jobs? Each of these three dossiers serves to increase economic growth and fiscal justice. Prime Minister, I mentioned the dossiers together, I called it a triptych. A triptych is attached to each other. That is why I was also pleased that you said yesterday that those files go hand in hand. They're basically meant to strengthen each other. For us, these are three linked dossiers that we wish to realise together with the government partners, with respect for everyone's vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u27	Mr Verherstraeten, you may forgive me if, after all that has happened and all that you have said about it, I ask for a little clarification, to be sure that you mean it this time. What does it mean for CD&V that those files are linked? Does this mean, by definition, an added value tax if a company tax reform is introduced? Or does this sometimes mean that one discusses it together and possibly one does and the other doesn't? I think it is important that you clarify this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u28	Mr Calvo, I quote the Prime Minister. I need to go to another page. I was on the page about corporate tax, the added value tax and the investment of the asset, but now I have to go to page two, where it says: "More efficiency to create jobs and more justice in tax matters, these two objectives go hand in hand. More than that, they need to reinforce each other. Mr Calvo, I think I have been sufficiently clear. And I believe that in the last week our group and our party at the government table have also been sufficiently clear. These are three good dossiers, three important dossiers, and for our group and for this majority they are politically linked. They'll be treated together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u29	Mr Verherstraeten, I do not want to spoil the fun, but I do want to restrain your voluntarism somewhat. You say you've been sufficiently clear this week. Apparently not. Apparently, you haven't been sufficiently persuasive. Besides, not only am I saying that, Kris Peeters also states in the newspaper today that the Prime Minister apparently did not realize how important the added value tax was for CD&V. So I don't understand your enthusiasm. You've seen with me who's applauded. We were about to applaud that fair contribution to the greatest capabilities, Mrs Onkelinx had to hold back, Mr Kitir was also willing to applaud, but not your own coalition partners. So again you get the impression that you buy a cat in a bag, that you keep admitting and moving and that this country is waiting, thanks to CD&V, for a fair contribution of the greatest abilities. If you were to open your eyes a little today, you would see that with us. Unfortunately, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u30	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence to point out that, in his speech, it is well written: "ISOC/Incentive to invest/tax on shares including capital gains." But that's not what he said yesterday. Prime Minister, yesterday, on this tripod, as you call it, you mentioned only one: encouragement to invest. The challenge is obviously the priority of being able to move forward on what you have postponed to later. This is what entrepreneurs in our country are waiting for. That is what those who work to redress the country are waiting for. That's what you committed yourself to last week, saying that it took you time, and that's also what explained the government crisis. You were going to find answers and clearly commit yourself to small and medium-sized enterprises, to the mobilization of savings towards the real economy, as well as ISOC and taxation. And here, Prime Minister, we are still big-jean as before because these crucial decisions have not been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u31	Mr President, I am being questioned, and with great pleasure I am responding in an attempt to clarify whether, sincerely, some people did not understand the message that was given yesterday. And I can't imagine that some people would pretend they didn't understand. I guess they really didn't understand the message that was expressed yesterday. This government has a general principle, which is not a new principle that dates from yesterday or the day before yesterday. We are convinced that one of the major challenges is to bring together two important demands, two important commitments, namely to strike a balance, and economic efficiency. At the tax shift a few months ago, we also decided to link these two important commitments in terms of economic efficiency and justice. Why? On the one hand, because we have concentrated the tax shift on reducing the burden on labour for the benefit of companies to encourage them to hire and, on the other hand, because about half of the tax shift has been devoted to the purchasing power especially of low and medium wages. This shows economic efficiency on the one hand, and tax justice, tax fairness on the other. We want to continue our work. Mrs Fonck, we have taken important additional initiatives and commitments. As I said yesterday, we are talking about seven very thorough, substantial strategic reforms for the future. One of these seven reforms is to do more, with the aim of increasing economic efficiency and, at the same time, greater justice. In this context, three important points were mentioned quite correctly by Servais Verherstraeten. We've been starting for a while, before the summer. We gave the Minister of Finance a mandate to work on corporate tax. We have even begun to analyse early legislation in this regard in the working groups within the government. At the same time, we considered that we should also look at how to go further on these issues by looking at how to better mobilise savings (€270 billion) and how to direct it towards the real economy. Secondly, we will study the digital agenda on the one hand, with support for SMEs for example, and thirdly, taxation on actions including capital gains. On the timing, I see the little game of asking if it's related, whether it's conditional or not. What is the reality? We will try – and it is the political will of the four parties – to make progress on the various subjects. As is always the case for a Prime Minister, I will have to assess, at some point, the maturity of the files, so that they can be placed on the government table before decisions can be made. That's how we're going to work seriously, each time assessing the positive impacts with respect to the two requirements of tax fairness, tax justice and economic efficiency. What we are doing is common sense, and that is how this government will continue to act: with common sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u32	Mr President, I hear the Prime Minister. At the same time, we still do not know what it has to answer when asked whether, in the absence of a corporate tax reform, there will also be no taxation of capital gains. That is what we want to know. Are both files linked? He seems to understand that yes, but you don't confirm it. In other words, if there is no corporate tax reform, will the CD&V still get its capital gains tax? That is the question before you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u33	It is a vision – let me say it with a lot of kindness, elegance and delicacy – extremely simplistic, extremely simplistic, Mr. Laaouej! We're working on files. Positive impacts are considered and decisions are made. But you do reason in a different way than we do. We've seen it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u34	I thank the Prime Minister for his sense of compliment. I'm happy to accept it. But you will agree that corporate tax reform is not mechanically linked to capital gains taxation. One can very well have a tax on capital gains independently of a corporate tax reform. You therefore do not answer the question or, more precisely, you answer it by explaining that, in the absence of a corporate tax reform, there will be no taxation of capital gains. Both files are politically linked. Why do you have trouble admitting it? It's pretty easy to understand anyway!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u35	Mr Laaouej, what matters to us, rather than the few political games you want to consider, is the coherence and effectiveness of decisions for job creation, economic activity and tax fairness. It is in this context that we will work, advance the work, the reflection, the studies and the simulations on all the dossiers and we will be watching in the Council of Ministers, when the time comes – Parliament will be informed; don't worry! – to make the political decisions on the substance in full coherence, the files with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have heard from you about the time, the time and the time, but you have not said anything concrete. In practice, you had every opportunity to put these files into practice. You made your political entry in August, in September, with a National Investment Plan. Not a single euro of your budget is spent on it. There is no provision for mobility, for the RER. There are no plans for energy. There are no plans for digital or innovation. As far as health is concerned, worse still, you are reducing budgets especially for hospitals. However, you know that investments in these areas could help us achieve savings tomorrow. You say you'll see in good time. You know that this poses a political problem, as Mr Servais Verherstraeten has just said in a very diplomatic way. J'ai lu The Latest News et The Morning today. The first headline is about the shock of party egos and disagreements in your government. Prime Minister, when will this government, which has now been in power for two years, actually take economic measures that our small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, are waiting for? Whether it is ISOC, measures aimed at rebalancing taxes between multinationals and small and medium-sized enterprises, savings, a public stimulus investment plan, the question is when you intend to intervene. You had the opportunity to do so as part of this policy statement, and you did not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u37	Mr President, I absolutely do not want to monopolize the floor. There are 150 members of this House who must be able to participate in the debate. However, I cannot avoid answering Mrs Fonck's inquiry. First of all, as regards the investment pact, an interdepartmental provision has been made. In particular, it will be used to support the work necessary to carry out the selection of projects. As I said yesterday, I hope that we can make rapid progress in this area so that these elements of the investment pact can be implemented as quickly as possible. Let us try to avoid intentional trials that cannot be supported by arguments. Besides, I'm a little puzzled. Where were you, Mrs. Fonck, for two years? Have you not seen that, during this time, we have tabled 200 bills to reform the country in depth? In recent years, what government has, in the context of a political declaration, brought about a budget and a strategic reform with legislation that will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in a few days' time? What government has taken so many decisions in two years to structurally reform our economy and strengthen social cohesion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u38	Mr President, you will not blame me for addressing my question to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, the budget remains unclear. It's been mentioned here a few times. You are always contradicting this, as is the case with the debate on the amount of EUR 100 million. However, Prime Minister, it would be much easier if you gave us the tables. Then we did not have to discuss all the figures. We would then have them in writing and we should not ask for them. The question that has been asked here a few times throughout the day is when we will finally get those tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u39	I would like to thank our bountiful colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne, who just told me, "But you, too, have already made a deal." I told him that, yes. This is obviously part of the political compromise. Within the different parties of a government, we conclude deals, it's obvious. Just admit it: you've made a deal, both of you, since there seem to be three projects at the same time. What's worrying is that your Prime Minister doesn't want to say it. That means there's an eel under rock, something's wrong and you're cheating on one of the partners. Which one? I have the impression that an answer will be given in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u40	Prime Minister, I hear you talking about the national plan to boost public investment. This is a major issue. All levels of power are concerned: the federated entities are committed to moving forward with you. Today you are talking about 100 million euros for 2017. But, Prime Minister, who, in all the gazettes, explained that you wanted to put several billions on the table? Rather than explaining today that everything is done and everything is beautiful through your 2017 budget, you should make this unique issue, the national investment plan, the priority of priorities. I regret that your budget contains nothing or almost nothing about it, and I say it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u41	Mr. President, I'd like to do the topo with the government. It is now more than 4:00 p.m. Do we know, Prime Minister, when the tables will be sent to Europe and when we will receive them? Some of the answers will be found in the tables and will allow us to avoid waiting and continuing this set of questions and answers, particularly in relation to the figures of investments and commitments. That could help us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u42	The budget table which served as the basis for the budgetary discussions was tabled in Parliament. You can rely on this one to intervene right now. This morning, you were referring to the Draft Budgetary Plan (DBP). This document is different. It must be sent to the European Commission. It's a particular document. We have committed ourselves to Parliament and we will keep our word: the second we send the DBP to the European Commission, we will send it to Parliament at the same time. We still have until tonight to do it. I'm continuing because I saw your reaction, Mr. Nollet. That's not entirely correct. Indeed, the DBP, as you know from the beginning, had to be sent to the European Commission on the 15th or 17th, while the budgetary debate and the debate on the state of the Union had to take place long before. You know that the DBP is not one of the documents you need to debate. You do not need the European Commission's DBP. These are two completely different documents, although of course they are linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u43	Mr. President, have you officially received anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u44	Not to my knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. You also have to be correct at some point. The president says we haven't received anything yet. Mr Borsus was present at the Conference of Presidents. He told us that the DBP would be passed on to us, because we need it today. Since the beginning of this debate, we have asked to have it at the same time. I don't know what time the Commission services close: 5 p.m., 6 p.m., 7 p.m.? But we will, I suppose, still have it today. The last time we had this discussion was with Mr. Jamar. And then there was a problem with the photocopier. I hope that we will no longer be in such a situation and that we will be able to see clearly. Give us an hour, minister. I did not ask you to confirm what Mr Borsus had already told us in the Conference of Presidents. What I was asking you was to tell us when we would receive this European document. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u46	Mr President, I would just like to make the following point to the Minister. You point out that the government of Europe has been postponed until this evening and that the day will last until midnight. However, I would like to remind you that there is also Belgian legislation. In fact, according to Belgian law, the budget had to be submitted by Saturday 15 October 2016. That's what the law says. So you didn't succeed in that either. It is only natural that Parliament should ask what it is entitled to in the light of the current debate. I repeat that the law stipulates that the budget should be submitted by Saturday 15 October 2015. In fact, we should have had the tables on Saturday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u47	I can only tell you what I just told you! You received a first painting. As far as DBP is concerned, which is a particular document, you will receive it when we send it to the European Commission. You must know that the DBP does not only concern the budget of Entity 1, therefore of the Federal State, but also concerns the budget of the Regions. We received the documents relating to the Brussels Region an hour and a half ago! We work in good order. Once the document is completed, I assure you that it will be sent to Parliament the second time it is sent to the Commission. We are committed to doing so!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u48	This government, ladies and gentlemen, has the ambition of strengthening the economy in another way, namely by reforming the labour market. She'll give the right answer. The measures relating to work and manoeuvrable work have two objectives: how do we reconcile work and family life and how can we respond more flexibly to the employer's economic questions? This is a search for a balance between workable work and economic flexibility. The social partners, at sector level and at enterprise level, will continue to play an important role in this. They will also have to conclude agreements on their practical implementation. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday you were more than right to pay tribute to the victims and to those who have made fantastic efforts in the field following the painful attacks in our country. This teaches us that security is and will remain a top priority of this government and that this government, with the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in its head, is taking appropriate measures to prevent terrorism where it can, and to punish terrorism where it needs to be. Ladies and gentlemen, absolute safety does not exist. We must limit insecurity wherever possible, but we do so without restricting fundamental human rights. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday you held a very consistent discourse that we endorse: a society can only become stronger if we connect people, if we build bridges and not walls. Ladies and gentlemen, you would be surprised if I did not bring up that one dossier as well. Yesterday I heard a lot of noise in this assembly, when the Prime Minister expressed his commitment to work out a solution for the ARCO co-operatives in the course of 2017. I've heard the wildest stories here about a link with other files. Here too, I note that rumours and speculations far exceed reality. I was surprised at your surprise. These are agreements made during the formation of the government. These are agreements which are contained in the government agreement and which the Prime Minister also expressed at his inauguration. This was repeatedly said by several members of the majority of different political parties. These agreements will be respected, with respect for the borders of the European Commission. Colleagues, let's take a look back. So let us not forget the commitments made by previous governments on this issue, and which this Parliament, even at that time with the support of a non-majority, has adopted the law and the guarantee scheme. I believe that the ARCO coordinators have waited a long time and I thank you, Prime Minister, for that rightful commitment. Now that the settlement is imminent, I think the time has come to cut some strings. We have had an eventful year: refugee crisis, attacks, civil war in Syria, the Brexit and mass redundancies at companies. A lot of people are insecure and ask if they'll be better tomorrow. The question is how we should deal with this politically. Then there are different answers possible. We can assume that the problems will disappear, we can turn back on ourselves, we can blame the others. Those are possible options, but those are not the options of this government. We have a duty to offer people a perspective by making it clear that we can meet these challenges, by putting our shoulders together and by allowing everyone to make a reasonable contribution. Then we can bridge differences, then we can bridge differences of opinion, then we can make people strong by helping them get a job, what the government does; by supporting entrepreneurs, what this government does; by dividing up necessary savings and new balances justly and avoiding the weakest, what this government does and by guaranteeing maximum security for the people, what it does. For these reasons we offer you the confidence, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of his speech Mr Verherstraeten referred to the difficult international context in which we have had to pursue policies over the last few weeks and months. He referred to conflicts, to the Brexit, the situation in Syria. I would like to start today by urging our country to play its role in the context of European integration. We belong to the founding fathers of Europe. We have always cherished this European dream, and we have always honoured the principle of the free movement of people, services and capital. I think it is important to remember this today, at a time of hesitation, particularly in our country, to approve a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. I would like to start with this because I believe that European integration and this international position of our country is extremely important for our future economic growth and therefore prosperity. We have known in history, Prime Minister, in this country, in these parts, the greatest prosperity when our country, with an open mind, was trading with the rest of the world. We have been able to achieve economic successes in this area, but also in the field of culture. I refer to glorious periods in history. It is by not setting walls or closing borders that we are doing our economy a service. I think we should put that principle forward again today because trade is an exclusive competence for the EU. We have a complex state structure in which several parliaments should ratify such agreements, but it should not have been. In fact, the Commission has a very restrictive role here, followed a very restrictive interpretation by saying that each Member State had to ratify it individually. Trade is actually an exclusive competence. Then one becomes the playball of some, some also who could use that file for internal political objectives. I think this is possible and one should ask oneself whether a free trade agreement with Canada can be approved by countries such as Greece. I refer to Mr Tsipras, not exactly an ideological ally of the liberals. I refer to other countries, all of which say that our economy in Europe needs this, because otherwise this economy will become an old continent, a continent that could be scrambled. It has been pointed out that there is weak economic growth in our country. At the moment, this weak economic growth is, in fact, characteristic of the whole of the European Union, to a lesser or more extent. There are countries that have been hit harder in recent years and are now, of course, growing stronger. We have always managed to maintain this growth more or less, but that growth is too low. That is why Europe, and certainly our country, must be able to trade to Canada. We're not protectionists. We believe in the success of an economic trade policy and we must safeguard it. The marches of the next few hours and days will hopefully be successful. In the extreme case, I would suggest that the Foreign Minister should sign that agreement and then we will see who will exhaust legal proceedings to prove his validity. First things first, however, apply to the economy. This is a priority for us! Prime Minister, there are all sorts of conclusions to be drawn here after two years. On behalf of my group, I would like to make it very clear that you continue to focus on job creation, and you have our support for that. A job is still the best social protection. People seem to forget that sometimes. Some may be staring blindly at this or that benefit. In that respect, we should not blush. We will always be ready for the weakest in society. Activating, achieving self-reliance, bringing more people to work and putting them all under our economy to create the basis for future prosperity and well-being is the basis of your policy. You have succeeded in doing so with two solid tax shifts, and I would like to make that very clear: reducing taxes for people who work and reducing the burden on people who work. You reduce the burden on people who work, so that working would be more interesting than not working. You do not hear me pointing a finger at any profit-earing person here, but sometimes it is more interesting for someone to refuse an appropriate relationship because the sum of benefits that can be accumulated or maximized by not working is more interesting in his situation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must reform pensions, retirement schemes and also the labour market. We create jobs, but we sometimes find that we do not find people to fill those jobs. We are also making social security more effective in the presence of the Minister for Social Affairs and health care. It is not really a question of whether we are talking about full-time jobs or fixed-term relations with the government. I notice today that countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries have effectively managed to boost job creation and ensure that more people are working globally. 76 000 new jobs in two years is a net job creation. I would also like to emphasise the fact that this is mainly about private job creation. That's the point. These include both low-, middle- and high-skilled jobs. Prime Minister, there have never been so many start-ups and self-employed people, as many as 20 000 in 2015 and 2016. As a result, unemployment is falling globally. Of course, very important in order for private job creation to continue is our wage handicap, which your government, continuing on previous efforts, I am objectively effective in reducing it to 10%. The first thing that is needed to have a good swinging economy is companies that are competitive and competitive. For the first time since 2008, our trade balance is also in surplus. We also note that business investment is re-engaging and growing by 4% on average. A very important observation, which I would also like to make, is that people's purchasing power is increasing. We read the reports of the National Bank of Belgium and other institutes. Reference can be made to other measures, including those at regional level, which have led to higher fees and higher invoices. You can mention all of that. However, the net result is that purchasing power is increasing. In other words, the government is fully committed to that purchasing power. After all, not only companies create growth. Consumers are also creating growth. Is everything euphoria? Is everything triumphalism, as suggested and suggested by the left? It would only be about hurray messages. No, it's not just hurray messages. There have been severe economic setbacks in recent weeks and months. You don't have a monopoly on your heart. That's an expression Giscard d'Estaing used. On all the banks of this Chamber and in all the layers of society, people are shocked when things like ING and Caterpillar happen. That affects us all very deeply, but in an open economy there is no miracle method for that. We cannot approve a law with the first article that requires companies to invest here, as the second article that companies cannot go bankrupt and as the third article that companies have to create a certain number of jobs on an annual basis. We can only create a framework within which this development is possible. I'm looking at colleague Kitir. When I started in politics, in my province, the Kempense coal mines closed. In my province, it was the absolute conviction that it would never be what it had been. There was a conservative reflex. There were five national sectors, remember? Steel was one of them. For my province that sector was also important, because many people from Limburg went to work in Liège. We have seen what has happened to the five national economic sectors, but we have also seen that, after the closure of the CS in Limburg, a new economic development has taken place. When Ford Genk closed, that was a sledgehammer for me, too. Thousands of people lost their jobs, but today we have to see that the economy has managed to create a larger job offer than before Ford Genk closed down. This means that we must continue to think positively. There are difficulties, but there are always opportunities. We must continue to believe in the resilience of the economy. That is why we must give opportunities to our economy. I have made a very conscious start on free trade agreements. They can do a great deal of service for that. Don't tell me that Brexit has no impact on our economy, because our country is heavily dependent on our relationship with the UK. So that's all the stuff that's been going on. However, we should not be alarmed, and I am looking at the Minister for the Digital Agenda for a number of new phenomena. People are afraid of digitalisation, especially in the context of ING. People used to be afraid of the invention of the steam engine. People were probably also afraid of printing. There have always been new things on the market that have fundamentally reformed the economy. We must embrace these things instead of thinking that we can stop them. That brings me to my third point, Prime Minister: if we know what the possibilities of digitalisation are, then we must seize them to the full and not try to stop things. We must ensure that our people are well trained so that they can make effective use of these opportunities. That is why I say that we must continue to reform. That is my next point. I know that the figures are important to the European Commission, but the reforms are also important. Can we demonstrate that we are sufficiently flexible in our labour market? Can we get rid of systems that remove people from the labour market rather than motivate or encourage them to participate? What about our pay handicap? Sometimes people only look at what is not in an agreement, but I look at what is in the agreement. And I'm glad, because I've come to the conclusion that e-commerce is finally finding a breakthrough. I am looking again at my colleague from Limburg. It hurts my heart that because of the fact that we apply rules that make the night in our country start at an hour different from the night in the Netherlands, there is a whole economic tree across the border. We can't prohibit or stop that via the internet, and we wouldn't want to do it either.We do orders that are constantly delivered by Dutch vans, by Dutch company trucks or by Dutch mail. Finally, I would say, there is a breakthrough there, so that we in that market will also be able to create hundreds of thousands of jobs in our country. A second example, so important for our economy, is competitiveness and pay disability. We have taken important steps under the previous government to make our economy more competitive. I refer to the competition pact, which was established under Prime Minister Di Rupo, with indeed, Mr Verherstraeten, a number of interventions in the basket of the index to ensure that we could actually bridge labour costs. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is also such a thing as an historic wage handicap. There was already a handicap in our country before the 1996 law. That law is now finally getting teeth, so that in future wage policy and wage adjustments will be taken into account, taking account of corrective mechanisms, which will be respected, so that the labour cost handicap does not panic again. My next point is to cancel working time. We have talked about this for months and months, but now it is a fact, on the basis of consultation with the partners, that we still respect, but on the basis of a certain principle of subsidiarity at company level. If we do that, then we must effectively respect a certain mass of wages, a number of hours. What the hell is against when a company decides one week that it's all hands on deck and a little more work is being done, while another week it can calm down? In the context of annualisation, the balance is broadly respected and employers are not driven towards overwage, which could once again hinder competitiveness. Is this not also a good thing for quality work, for people who prefer to work at home for a few days in order to be able to combine their work with household care or with care for a sick parent or a sick child? These are all things that can lead people to pick more satisfaction from their work. And as a result, they ultimately provide more flexibility and give people more freedom to make choices, choices they want to make themselves. We thought that none of this could, should not, was not productive and not efficient in our country, because there is a strict framework and that anyone who did not respond would be out. I give three examples because I think they are important in terms of your government's image, to be a reform government. I'm talking about the numbers right now. This reform government can say that e-commerce, the labour cost handicap, the 1996 law, the annualisation of working time are indeed important projects, which I assume Parliament will soon be able to give its opinion on. No one can claim that trade unions and employers have not been given a serious opportunity to conclude agreements on this issue. We have given the opportunity to social dialogue, but if, in a sound parliamentary democracy, social dialogue does not produce results, it is up to politics and Parliament to take decisions. Could any other reforms be added to your impressive list of yesterday? I think so. In the field of taxation, I also have a number of ideas, and I think many of them. A number of these issues still need to be looked at in depth, even after the simulations. Then I come to the three dossiers to which much attention has been paid in recent days. I am thinking, among other things, of the reform of company taxation. Of course, I am also thinking of the famous added value tax. I am also thinking of the measures proposed by my group to ensure that much more savings could be invested in our economy. Let me start with the last one. I have listened very carefully to Mr Cooreman and I have also very much liked to read him. I'm gonna go back in the past. In the period 1981-85, this gave a tree to our economy. We are now faced with a different reality in Europe and the re-release of such a law is unfortunately no longer possible, but with the index intervention then and with the boost given by the Cooreman-De Clercq Act, we have seen that we have a vibrant economy in the years 1983-85. We need to be able to reconsider such measures, given the 260 billion parked on savings books and the investment pact you have put forward. You said that we should be able to invest more in our country. I refer to another Eminence, Professor Moesen, which was based on the distinction between current expenditure and capital expenditure. It is not logical that we should now include investment in the same financial year through the strict European rules for their totality. This has also put a brake on public investment. The European Union, I refer to the Juncker plan, has also shown that investment in sectors such as telecommunications, digitalisation and infrastructure is crucial for the effective renewal of our economy. It is important that this aspect is taken into account, because there was a certain contradiction, Prime Minister. If one finds that 30% of withholding tax is now paid and that nothing is paid on the added value of shares, then I am prepared to examine whether we can come up with a smart policy in which we do not in any way put a brake on people who want to invest their savings in the economy. One cannot, on the one hand, call on people to become shareholders, and at the same time be ready with the hammer to punish them. With a mix of measures, we must be able to mobilise, deploy and translate savings into productive investment in the economy in our country, with a huge amount of dormant savings. Such an approach must be examined before I say that a new tax will soon be adopted in all calmness, and I wonder what some colleagues on the left are trying to do. I hear the call for more equitable taxation here. When I say 'to the left', everyone fills it in the way he wants to fill it in, Mr Vanvelthoven. More just taxation, I'm in favour of that, too. I said here last week that I think the current tax burden is too high, too penalising. The current fiscal pressure in our country, even though it is now falling, is still at the highest for some aspects, Minister of Finance. I do not think it is a good approach to simply add something to it so that the social conscience is well-suited to it. I don't think that's a good approach because it's more complex than that. I would just like to make it very clear that, according to international reports, we have the most redistributing taxation. 10% of the largest earners pay about 45% of all taxes. The 50% lowest earners pay only 7% of those taxes. As a result, we are one of the least unequal countries in the OECD. Our country has a total of 15 billion in capital and capital gains taxes. We know systems that have grown so much from inheritance taxes, gift rights, withholding tax, property tax... you name it. One often forgets in the discussion that tax has actually been paid on all components to form a capital. What I certainly must say, Mr President, is that it is illogical to think that all the problems will be solved. In some simulations, I read that this is worth 70 to 80 million. If I hear some of them here, then all the savings from the past must be reduced, then I have not heard any department that some opposition groups believe could qualify for more savings, then any savings made in social security or in health care are a blow. That must, of course, be made impossible. However, such a tax could solve all the budgetary problems facing this country. I'd say Simplicissimus isn't dead, Mr Calvo, Simplicissimus is alive and well and he's here for us. Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, my group is fully prepared to look at these dossiers with an open eye. We have no taboos in this respect, we are open to further reforms in this area. However, we have a starting point: it must be good for the economy. Fiscality is too important and too delicate to be able to give constantly changing signals to foreign investors. If we are talking about a corporate tax reform, we need to ensure good simulations, so that a minimum tax is introduced for the larger companies, but above all so that SMEs would not suffer. That's important to us. So we'll do both together. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, Minister for the Budget, I would like to point out that the 2016 financial year was a difficult and problematic year. Some reforms and measures were difficult to implement. I believe that we will continue to flirt with the 3 % border of Europe in 2016. If I look at the financial years 2016 and 2017 together, I think we can make an improvement of 1.2 %, i.e. 0.6 % on an annual basis, as Europe imposes on us. Madam Secretary, I understand that you also provide a buffer of 739 million. I note that one group is already somewhat more obsessed with the budget than the other. However, I would like to make it clear to you that a balanced budget must remain the target for your team. A balanced budget, with the figures in order, is, in my view, also an important instrument for creating confidence in our economy. One cannot do without another: we need to get the budget in order and at the same time we need to work on certain socio-economic reforms. I would like to make one more comment on the safety issue. Mr Prime Minister, you discussed this in detail yesterday. After the attacks in Paris, after Verviers, and especially after Maalbeek and Zaventem, your government announced a package of measures. These measures are gradually being translated into the special committee on terrorism set up for this purpose. In addition, there is a parliamentary committee of inquiry which will work hard in the coming weeks and months to devise new measures, always with one restriction in mind: we must not fall into the trap of those who are actually seeking to undermine the fundamental values of our rule of law. The greatest pleasure that terrorists and organisations like ISIS can do is to disregard the principle of the separation of powers and the principle of the independent rule of law. We can't fall for that trap. We must take action, we must provide for budgets, and you do so. For my group, however, there is always one fundamental principle: in certain research methods, especially when people are being detained, when people are being robbed of their freedom, my group, and I will never abandon it, needs a judge by a magistrate. In the past we have experienced periods, even after the period after the Second World War, where we could see what excesses, after the excesses of the war, led to the other movement. We have seen that mayors were unable to withstand the pressure of public opinion at the time. Hence: keep your head cool, and make sure, when you are considering new measures, that you always do that review. Privacy is a fundamental right. Safety is, of course, also a fundamental right. But we will not get better security by throwing our privacy overboard. In fact, I think it is quite the opposite. Let us not make that mistake. Let us be vigilant about these important principles. Mr Prime Minister, I think it has been a difficult weeks for you and your team, but you are standing here and presenting us with a programme that puts the budget in order and keeps the ship on course. With the reforms you are proposing, you are proving to be a reform government. My group also attaches great importance to this. The figures are encouraging. I am convinced that, if we could make progress and bring those other yards to a successful conclusion, we would be able to reap the economic results. More jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs remains the starting point for my group. Go on, don't look back, good luck, you have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this was not an ordinary declaration of government. This government has stumbled with sweat on the forehead over the meter. This government celebrates, I quote the Prime Minister: what unites us is stronger than what divides us, but it is the division that unites this government. You guys are celebrating today, but the Belgians aren't celebrating with you. Instead of using this budget to force a fair balance in your policies, there are once again the sick, the workers, the pensioners who have to make sure the accounts are correct. This is a government that chooses mutual quarrel and conflict, a government that chooses half-hearted and unfair proposals, a government that never chooses for the people but always for itself. The cinema of the past week has, in any case, yielded nothing. No real reforms that give people perspective again. This divided government cannot possibly unite, because the consequences of your policy are becoming increasingly clear. In a fingertips it is decided to save EUR 1 billion on health care. I just heard that no majority was found at the RIZIV General Council to approve the 2017 budget. I hear the medical syndicate has given up the agreement for 2016-2017. This means that the patient no longer has tariff security, but when it comes to the contribution of the great abilities, we only get a big show without the slightest result. You proclaim the saving of the jobs by flexibility, but then the most flexible among us lose their jobs. You promised a budget in order again. Yesterday I heard several ministers explain that you are still keeping the track open to achieve a balance in 2018, but everyone knows that if we do not save EUR 4 billion but only EUR 3 billion, we will lose balance. You have now proven above all that you are unable to govern, unable to make honest decisions. People should accept all these changes because you promised something instead: more flexibility for more security, more taxes for a balanced budget. But what did you do? New jobs are full of uncertainty and your budget is an air castle. Not the structural solution is central, but the profiling urge of the four government parties. What did we see last week? With the poll in mind, the CD&V starts handing out a few tackles in injury time. Everyone knows a tackle means a red card, so game over. There will be no lower corporate tax, to which our SMEs would ask for and those real jobs. A fair tax with an added value tax to finally make the broadest contributions instead of always getting the money from those same people is not going to happen either. The fight's frozen, but the problems aren't solved. Do you really think that with one big fight, with one big gesture, you will make this government less harsh, less unfair and less restless? That's an illusion! Your alleged little victories don't offer great answers. People want fair grades, more security and real jobs. With your approach to conflict and profiling urge, you make a common story impossible. Over and over again you do not offer the answers that people are looking for. You don't seem to want to see, don't want to hear and don't want to listen. This divided government cannot possibly unite. We are now halfway through the government's term. It is already clear with what ruins you will leave our country. You asked people to bite their teeth and then everything would be fine. You promised a budget balance by 2018. You were supposed to stop passing the invoices to the kids and the grandchildren. But what do we see? Your budget talks began with a search for more than four billion euros. This deficit of four billion euros has created you over the past two years. Suddenly, four billion euros became three billion euros. The objective of structural improvement of 0.84% was abandoned and limited to the minimum imposed by Europe, i.e. 0.6%. This means that you will leave the agreed trajectory to a structural balance in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u51	Mrs. Kitir, what you're saying is interesting. You are actually saying that this government should have saved four billion instead of three billion. In other words, you believe that an additional EUR 1 billion should have been made. Can I ask you, then, what exactly are you proposing to provide for that extra billion? For the record, don't let the rich be burdened again, because they're probably already in your three billion. Where will you, as a socialist party, find that extra billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u52	Mr Van Quickenborne, first of all, I would really like you not to have a deficit of four billion after you have asked so much of the people for two years. I'd like to start with that. Second of all, I've been hearing that defense all day. I've been following all the speakers all day. The defence of this majority is always: "Tell us, dear opposition, how would you do it?" For starters, it's your move. Your promise was that you would be good family fathers. You'd all do much better. Well, I notice there's a deficit of four billion, despite the measures you've taken. You can't blame the opposition for that shortage. Later in my speech, I had prepared myself for it, and I will show you all the alternatives that the sp.a has submitted. If you have a little patience, the alternative will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u53	Mrs Kitir, you say that this government is throwing the country in a mess and that you should not answer the question of how you would do it. You do not have to answer that, Mrs Kitir, because we already know the answer. I'm just giving you a simple example. I refer to the period 1999 to 2008 until just before the banking crisis, because I will not blame you for the banking crisis. I will be honest with you, but in 1999 there was still a primary balance, the difference between revenue and expenditure or the surplus without interest charges of 6.3 %. Even before the banking crisis, it had fallen to 4%. You ate the whole surplus, as it were. You have systematically started to spend more and then we complain about the budget deficit here today. Why is that? Why and what did you waste the surplus on the budget? I can only say that there is only one solution for this today, at last saving on expenditure. And that is what we are doing, because 70% of the exercise represents savings on expenditure. This is the only way to achieve a balanced structural budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u54	Come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u55	Mr President, Mr Kitir, you come here, run away from the red saloon. We know it's always nice there. You come from a political period in which left and right parties were distributed and in which all-free politics were cultivated. Now you come here to say that the future must be prepared seriously. In one breath, you also say that no burdens should be passed on to future generations. However, as soon as this team makes an effort for even one euro, either by saving or by contributions, not to pass any burdens on to future generations, you are also the first in line to be critical of this. You also say that you wish that we should not be short. Well, you may have many wishes in politics, but at some point things have to be dealt with. That's exactly what this government wants to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u56	Let the N-VA say that, we can still understand it: it was not in the different governments. But let the other parties, who were in the government, start making that kind of statement, it's surreal! Who was Prime Minister? Who was Minister of Budget? It's surreal! For the rest, what we were looking for was a balance between spending work and revenue work. We have achieved the three-thirds rule: one third in expenditure, one third in revenue and the balance in various. You, you, cause a complete imbalance, by going to look very little on the side of the recipes, from those who have the shoulders wide enough to participate in solidarity, and to go seek the maximum to harm the social security, and to realize it on the backs of the sick. That's precisely what we feel for you, and instead of the CD&V, I wouldn't be very proud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u57	Mr President, I realise that there is a great deal of curiosity about our alternatives. So I assume that everyone will listen carefully until the end of my speech, so that you can all hear in what way the sp.a will eventually do it. Mr Deseyn and members of CD&V, please do not lecture me, given your cinema of the past week, in which you yourself admitted that the burden is not fairly distributed. A week later, you still cannot submit concrete measures. Come on, as representative of the sp.a., so don't tell me that I'm in my red salon and I don't know what people live with and what people shout. You would take care of the social face, but you didn't. So don't lecture me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u58	Mrs Kitir, you have not yet understood exactly what we are actually doing. We are now putting the house in order with the budget discussion. Our party has pressed the pause button, just because the remaining files have not been cleared. If you now claim that a hypocritical game is being played and there is a lot of tralala for the show, then you obviously have not understood what has been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u60	Mrs Temmerman, of course you have a lot of notes on your vocals during the debate. However, you may be too miserable to admit that in a government that is classified as a centre-right, fair taxation is cultivated as a theme and has a place in the Prime Minister's declaration. It may hurt you very much that the government will continue to discuss this issue. You haven't been able to do that in all these years. I accept that statement. If you think that a party that has managed to thematicise fair taxation with the support of the Prime Minister and our Deputy Prime Minister has suffered a defeat, that is a great pity for those who will be working daily on fair taxation and have already done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dwell on the four billion deficit. The apologies I have heard about this are hallucinating: the administration did not do its job; the announced Brexit was at its origin and even the dramatic attacks were used as an excuse. Wouter Beke was right, though. It's the first time the economy's grown and income is disappointing. This means that the economy is improving, but not our budget. So, Prime Minister, it is good to look into your own bosom. It's your government that has unrealizedly high revenue. Your government charges people with invoices that make growth more difficult. Your government is carrying out a tax shift that hasn't been funded. So you transfer the invoices to our children. Your government has been granted a patent for overestimates as well. So stop looking for excuses and return to reality. All incidents within your government are caused by division. You don't seem to be aware of the results of your promised medicine. Your gifted pill is not only bitter, its effect is disastrous. CD&V has approved all antisocial measures in the last two years. To their general surprise, they only woke up from a deep sleep last week. Are the polls the reason? Are the sounds of protest within one's own trade union movement the reason? Or are your own members, who are starting to stir, the reason? Kris Peeters stated: "The government has already demanded a great deal of effort from people who live on wages and benefits. CD&V believes that additional efforts should not always be required from the same people. Therefore, an added value tax must now be introduced. What is left of your requirement for an added value tax? Has CD&V now succeeded in compensating the painful measures for the people with a fair contribution of great abilities? On the contrary. Because of their cinema, everything is blocked. The value added tax is being studied. The reform of corporate taxation is being re-examined. As the ultimate distraction from all those broken promises, they make a new promise, this time in the ARCO file. You've decided not to decide. You agree you don't agree. The argument you're having is frozen, Prime Minister, but not resolved. The conclusion is as follows. Contrary to what you're saying, you're gonna delay the problems for you. You're avoiding your responsibility and celebrating saltless compromises. This divided government cannot possibly unite. Dear Prime Minister, the conclusions of that endless shifting and avoiding are not without obligation. Our security, the basis of our society, should never be the victim of this indecision. You have taken action, with broad agreement from the majority and opposition. That union also gave the country the strength it needed. Attacks in the middle of our society create a sense of powerlessness. Only by acting together can we prevent that. Together as political parties to reach decisions that need to be taken, together as security authorities to ensure the safety of our country, together as a society to build the confidence to overcome our fears. Unfortunately, we see that this government does not last long in united action. This summer it rained different plans, not from the government, but from the various majority parties. Parties who do not listen, but are only busy with themselves, create no certainty and certainly no security. This only strengthens the sense of powerlessness in our society. Necessary solutions remain out and we are losing time, much time, precious time that we need to make the right decisions. Decisions which you may find difficult, Prime Minister, but which are not difficult. I am thinking of a 48-hour arrest period so that our security people can do their job properly. I am thinking of one police zone in Brussels, so that the police can really act together. I'm thinking of a state security budget that the federal attorney general can actually work with. However, what do we establish? You have chosen to launch separate plans that do not solve the problems, from the burkini ban to the state of emergency, from armed administration to alert administration and with the conflicting security plans of the N-VA and CD&V as a icing on the cake. People don't get it. We don't get it either. Consensus creates power, but your ministers always choose to play people against each other and to keep experts away from your decisions. Exactly that highlights the differences within your government, Prime Minister. By postponing constructive proposals over and over again, you are only making the problems worse. Ministers must be aware of the importance of their statements. They should set an example here. Instead, in this government there are a number of champions in reproach. In times of insecurity, however, that is inappropriate. People need clear answers. More than ever, society needs commitment. Misconception ministers do not contribute to that. A secretary of state, who uses Twitter as a blasphemer, isn't supposed to do that. Everyone is needed to face the challenges. Then why doesn't this government understand? Let me give you some examples. Minister Jambon went into Molenbeek's office, a difficult job indeed. Secretary of State Francken called the refugee camp in Brussels a cozy tent camp; heavy about it. Minister Jambon spoke just after the attacks on dancing Muslims, yet this has never been proven. No one was flagged back for those statements, so they got legitimacy. Unfortunately, these reprehensible statements lead to a hardening of our society, whereas we, as policymakers, are supposed to provide sufficient counterweight. This divided government cannot possibly unite. Dear Prime Minister, dear ministers, you promised jobs. For sp.a, a job is an activity in which an individual can develop and be valued for. Every job must provide a decent income for a good life. Sp.a doubts that you are able to fill in that definition. Your medication has no effect. Your recipe was: pay additional invoices, become more flexible and accept the index jump. Then everything would get better. Of the 70 000 jobs created, only 9 000 offer full-time security. The other jobs are interim jobs and part-time jobs and even the flexi jobs in the catering industry are included. In short, most of the jobs created offer less security and less pay. The 10 000 people who have lost their jobs have no message of this. The winners of that policy are the employers. They'll get a blank check. What really matters is that you have forgotten great. You forgot to link to that blank cheque any job guarantee, a job the employee will be sure of next week, next month, next year. Your own quacks don't change the medication. The extra flexibilisation by the Peters Act does not help the employee. The 38-hour week goes on the shovel. Weeks of 45 working hours will become more the rule than the exception. Why do you only respond to employers' questions and not to employees' questions? How will employees still be able to combine work and private life if only the employer has control? How will people be able to fight burnouts and depression? It's making people harder and harder. Even the pregnant women are being targeted. If they have a risk job that endangers their baby, they are now obliged to work longer. And the young people, what assurance do they get? Your measure will enable them to be employed below the minimum wage. Only a dignified income guarantees our young people their independence, and that is now impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u62	Mrs Kitir, you blame us for not listening to experts. Can I quote poverty expert Ive Marx? He's the man of alternative Marxism, I'd say. Fortunately, Mr Van Hees is still here, the man of the real Marx, but I quote Ive Marx. I will confine myself to one quote on the measures taken:.. In Belgium, a relatively small group of people have a low-paid job, but having a job is the only real way out of poverty. Compare it to the Netherlands. There they have already implemented flexibility much further, where minimum wages for young people are also lower. Employment rates are better there, as are those on poverty. That is precisely the policy we are pursuing, Mrs Kitir. That is the only policy that fundamentally counteracts the risk of poverty. I find it particularly strange that you are against this as a socialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u63	Mrs Kitir, please tell Mr De Roover that our group, and I suspect yours, are not supporters of the Zuhal Demirdoctrine. That is actually what Mr De Roover says. That is what Mr Demir said in the newspaper a few months ago. If they're hungry, if they can't pay their rent anymore, if they're really in trouble, they'll find a job. Well, Mr De Roover, that's not our society. We don't believe in that because poverty doesn't work. In the meantime, after all these studies, Mr Marx should know that better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u64	Mrs Kitir, would you tell Mr Calvo that he obviously did not understand me? But that's not the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u65	Mr De Roover, thank you for the quote. The sp.a will welcome every job that comes with it. If you have listened carefully, Mr De Roover, there are only 9 000 people who really have security in those 70 000 jobs. All these other jobs are for people who work part-time or interim. Have you ever worked part-time, Mr De Roover? Have you ever worked through an interim contract, Mr De Roover? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u66	Me too, and there'll be a lot more. Then you know that having a job is very important, but having a full-fledged job is even more important, Mr De Roover. Those 70 000 jobs, if they were 70 000 full-time jobs, I could applaud. But there are many flexi jobs in those 70 000 jobs, Mr De Roover. So don't tell me that as a sp.a. I wouldn't agree that a job would eliminate poverty. I blame you, however, for not creating real jobs. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u67	Mrs Kitir, I must say that I am stunned. You say we don't create real jobs. So you tell all those people, all those Flemings, all those Belgians who are doing an interim job today that they don't have a real job. You tell all those people who work in the catering industry today that they don't have a real job. That's a blow to the face of all the people working day in, day out to turn our economy around. I don't accept that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u68	Mr Van Quickenborne, you may be surprised, you don't have to be so tough. The people at home have followed this debate. I got several texts today. You too, Mr Dewael, you are from my region, you quoted me. We have had severe shocks in Limburg but many of those people are in uncertainty, many of them shopping from one job to another. People ask for security, people ask for a full-fledged job. So, Mr van Quickenborne, do not come and tell me that all those people who are in an interim job are not doing their job properly. Those people are asking for security, and you're not offering them any security. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u69	Mr President, I have also been a worker and I have worked for the supply to Ford Genk. Most people in the supply to Ford Genk and also to other companies started in many cases with an interim contract. These can be day contracts, they can be weekly contracts or they can be monthly contracts. Is that the ideal solution? Not always, but it's a stepping stone to permanent work. In the firm where I worked, 90% of the people started an interim job, and they still work there, but over time they do work with a fixed contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u70	Prime Minister, yesterday you thanked the policemen, the teachers, the military, the air traffic controllers, the firefighters, for their daily commitment to our society. Together with many others, they give the best of themselves. Unfortunately, this government is also thanking them for their retirement. The impact is big. Teachers have to work four years longer for the same pension. Police officers have to work seven and a half years longer for the same pension. And also soldiers have to work 7.5 years longer for the same pension. But what, Prime Minister, if longer work does not succeed? What's that? In health care, too, there are so many needs that are not being met today. Help with stress and burn-outs is still not paid back. The same applies to spectacles and tooth brackets. Cancer patients are not receiving adequate care. This government would rather save a billion dollars on health care. This government is too busy with itself to see the consequences of its own decisions. It is too busy celebrating to see that this policy only leads to more problems, too busy to see that it is constantly demanding efforts from the same people. But those who put their money away in Panama or the Bahamas are left alone. This divided government cannot possibly unite. Dear Prime Minister, here you are. Probably tired after the long negotiations. Perhaps even so tired that you have long forgotten what you have ever promised. You are now celebrating a small party, for you are glad that you have made some decisions. After two years, however, I see mostly broken promises. You don't feel what's alive, you don't see what's happening, and you don't listen. Does it surprise you that people are on the streets? They are tired of always having to make the effort. They are tired of always having to pay, always being spared on them. They are tired of you deciding immediately that they should work until 67, which is still a bridge too far for this Parliament. You know what I'm really tired of? I can't believe you're acting like there's no other way. Like there was only one roadmap possible. For example, CD&V tries to keep its supporters quiet, so the N-VA gives up its Flemish profile, and so Open Vld accepts the budgetary gaps. However, there is an alternative. Awaken from your delusions and face reality. The sp.a made concrete proposals to actually impose a punishment on fraudsters and not to buy them off, to close all escape routes to tax havens in Luxembourg, Panama or the Bahamas. What did you do? You voted them off cheerfully and meanwhile gave the fraudsters a new chance for amnesty. The sp.a made concrete proposals for an added value tax so that the large assets would also pay their fair share so that the broadest shoulders would bear the heaviest burdens. What did you do? You always voted them away cheerfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u71	Thank you, Mrs Kitir, for your anthology of your proposals, but you should not forget that, in addition to making proposals, you have been pursuing real policies for some time. We shall see what that policy was. I think that we were all as shocked as we saw how immense the size of the constructions in Panama, the Bahamas and its associates were. Some will be legal, but a large part will be illegal. The size was immense. I don't know if you've read the files correctly. I'd advise you to do that sometime. When were these constructions set up? That was not in this legislature. These structures were set up in the 1990s and 2000s. Where was your party then? Your party was in the government then, Mrs. Kitir. More. If we look at these constructions, who was the court supplier of them? A large bank was a court supplier. Do you know who was on the board of that bank? Frank Beke and Patrick Janssens. Under the period of Frank Beke and Patrick Janssens, that bank has set up no less than 663 of these structures in Panama and its associates. That is the reality, Mrs Kitir. Then we're going to see how that was handled. Under John Crombez regularization was also done. What happened to the regularization, one of the biggest regularization rounds ever, by the way, under John Crombez? One could return his black money and pay a tax on it. What were they fined for? Only on the proceeds from the assets. They knew that the black capital was there, because they paid a rule on those returns, but that black capital itself was left completely untouched. That's what happened among the socialists. We do that differently, Mrs Kitir. We're gonna take care of that black capital, too. The constructions that were set up at a time when your party was in government will now be addressed with N-VA in government. That's the power of change. That's: more honest is better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u72	Mr President, I have a question to Mr Dedecker, who has just made shocking remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u73	No! We have to go through Mrs. Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u74	You're right, Mr. President. It's a ritual. I am therefore surprised to Mrs Kitir to hear Mr Dedecker explain to us that, in his view, most of the constructions that go through Panama are legal. I'd like to know where Mr. Dedecker says that. You have representatives in the Panama Papers Special Commission. We did the audition of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes. We did the judicial police hearing. We've been hearing magistrates. They all came to say that at this point, the files were under review. Obviously, Mr. Dedecker has information that we don't have. Perhaps he knows, intimately, Panamanian montages, I don't know. In any case, the words he has just made are quite staggering. On the other hand, I would just like to say that John Crombez, in two years, has brought more than two billion euros into the state's coffers in the fight against tax fraud. I'm still waiting for the results of your government, because so far, we haven't seen much!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u75	Mr Dedecker, not to repeat: the Panama Papers, the Bahamas Leaks and the Lux Leaks have all emerged under your government. [[Tumult]] You may recall all history, but today people see that people with great abilities hide their abilities on an island in order not to have to pay taxes and that the government does not act decisively against them. The sp.a also made concrete proposals to tackle the financial flows of terrorists, to combat the arms trade, to extend the arrest period and to turn Brussels into a police area. Those proposals were not voted off, they were not even discussed. The sp.a put a railway plan on the table, because we believe it is important to make the train attractive again, if we want to shorten the traffic jams again and make our cities more liveable again. What are you doing? You prefer to save three billion on SNCB and there is not even a management agreement yet. The sp.a put forward concrete proposals for our health care to completely abolish the supplements in hospitals, because good and accessible care should not depend on someone's wallet. We put forward a proposal to introduce the six euro brake money for everyone. The Minister thinks this is a good idea, but we are still making no progress. The sp.a put forward concrete proposals to tackle discrimination in the labour market through practical tests, because someone is too old or has a strange name. In the field of workable work, we also put forward proposals on slippery timetables, adoption leave, paternity leave and parental leave. With the index jump on rental prices and the VAT reduction on electricity, the sp.a submitted proposals to strengthen people's purchasing power. New, honest and simple rules that ease the pressure on work, prevent poverty and give the wealth created back to people, did not seem to be too much to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u76	Mrs Kitir, you list all the proposals that you have tabled and which have not been followed up. You also find it scandalous that people have to work longer to get their pension. You specifically mentioned the police. As you know, there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court that called into question the former pension scheme, which required a different arrangement. What proposal did you put forward to comply with the Constitutional Court? You may not have filed one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u77	The debate on longer working, Mr Degroote, is an important debate. This government has been given serious study work on how our pensions should look and how they should be made possible and affordable. I understand that this government has only memorized one recipe from all of that collection, especially raising age. There is no answer to all the rest. Mr Degroote, people are wondering how they should work longer, how they should be able to combine work and private life, what opportunities they have to do a little more quietly if they can't handle it anymore but still want to keep working. Those are the questions people are asking themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u78	You did not answer my question regarding your proposal, but you did not have a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u79	It's gonna be tough when the truth is told. I will conclude, Mr President. Prime Minister, there are alternatives, but you do not choose them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u80	Mrs Kitir, I have just come to the point. I sat down and listened very carefully. You said at the end of your speech you'd say how you'd feel about that billion extra. I would like to sum up: a track plan for more investment, the abolition of supplements in health care, additional leave schemes and a VAT reduction. Well, that's not a billion dollars, that's a billion dollars! That is an additional effect of one billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u81	You're selectively deaf. At home you can press the repeat button. Repeat, repeat, repeat. There are alternatives, but you don't choose. Do you want me to repeat them? Do you want to hear them? Do you want to know them? If you can't, why are you in this majority, if that's your answer to everything? I thought you were gonna do everything you could. It's easy to blame the opposition for everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u82	You were finishing up, Mrs. Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u83	Prime Minister, as I have said a few times, the quarrels within your government have been frozen, but the problems have not been solved. Everyone already predicts that we will have the same discussions within a few weeks, probably leading to the same chaos as last week. The division in your government is taking its toll. I'm concluding. Your policy is like a spider web: the big birds fly right through it, but the common birds and the little flies stick in it. You don't choose everyone's future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u84	Mr Calvo will share his speaking time with Mr Nollet, 15 minutes each.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, time is limited, so I am flying right in. Mr Prime Minister, I believe that after two years the questions are obvious. Are our countrymen better off? Are we doing what's possible in this country? Do we have all the odds? If it's all right with you, I'd like to talk about that in particular. Sorry, Mr Dedecker and Mr De Roover, I won't be talking about 25 years of socialism. I'll talk about what's possible in this country. Prime Minister, I believe that this State of the Union is still quite similar to that of two years ago. Then you had to make your maiden speech in special circumstances. Still, this is a majority that excels in division. What ordinary people do every day, in the sports club, in the workplace, in their streets, doesn't work out because of this majority. Yesterday it was about the added value tax, today it is about ARCO. There are still problems with the figures. We have a new Minister for the Budget, but she has not been able to solve the problem because we still have the same Minister for Finance. There is still, and this is the most important observation, zero ambition on the environment and climate. That is the great absentee in this debate on the State of the Union. Efforts are still being passed on to ordinary people, to families, single people, workers and people who are struggling. The same applies to this budget. You have spoken of an investment pact, but for that there is zero euro in the budget table. 70% of the effort is done by ordinary people and people who are struggling. For my colleague Mr Van Rompuy, I would like to say a few words: sick people, job seekers, pensioners, women with a wish for children, people on the run, development projects and young people. People who work are also affected by wage freezes and minimum wages. Prime Minister, you mentioned the government's DNA. That would be jobs, jobs, jobs. No, Prime Minister, the DNA of the current government is more injustice and more inequality. If there's anything that binds your majority, it's that. You rightly referred to a fifth of our compatriots who are at risk of poverty. However, with the current budget, our conclusion is very clear. It's about nothing more than crocodile tears. You're not serious and you're doing nothing or far too little for those people who are having a hard time today. You suggest that there is work to be done, that the government is doing well and that things are not going well here and there. I did the fact check with Mr. De Roover. There's a lot of things that aren't going well. There is no need for euphoria, especially after the dark September month with ING and Caterpillar. I am also struck by the fact that very few majority groups have spoken about this. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to give you the following. Hope to think very critically is naivety. That's why your State of the Union had something very strange and naive. That teaches the simple conclusion of a fact check. That's not gonna happen to us. It's not just the story of the attacks or the Brexit. Of course, there are difficult circumstances. These results and the fact that our country is doing worse in terms of job creation, economic growth, employment rates than Europe, are the result of your government policy, of a policy that is overly focused on profits, dividends and shareholders and far too little on ordinary people and the real economy. Colleagues, that should not be the case. Belgium has a lot of assets, to be at the top of the rankings. After all, there is little cause for optimism about government policy. However, there is a fearful cause for optimism when it comes to our country and our fellow countrymen. After all, many countrymen are already showing the way today. A lot of countrymen are hard at work today to do better. I'm thinking about Khalid, for example. It is a pity that Secretary of State Francken is not present. Khalid fled his country, Iraq, in 2015 without his family. Today he is a recognised refugee and founder of a project in which refugees with a medical degree stand with Belgian doctors. Khalid is a real doer, someone who is eager to be part of our society. Or take Paul, the founder of Greenway, who will know quite a few colleagues from the supermarket, in a restaurant or at one of our festivals. While Mrs Marghem and Mrs Schauvliege have been working on climate change, he has been working on a sustainable company with 16 employees for 18 years, with a strong turnover, because healthy and green, Mr Peeters, that works. Or Jihad, an Antwerp student, maybe that'll ring a bell. A young person, one of the many young people in this country, full of dreams and ambitions, but not naive. I got to know her two years ago in a college debate, then with an action for practical testing in the field of discrimination, a step that we should have taken a long time ago. Or Christel, 54 years old, working for years as sales in a private company, until suddenly half the staff were thrown out, the sick and the old workers of course first, Mr Peeters. Although it isn't easy, Christel is still looking for a new job, as unfortunately will soon be the employees of ING, Caterpillar, Douwe Egberts and Axa. Colleagues, these people really exist. There are a lot of them in our country. Khalid, Paul, Jihad and Christel are here. They are following the debate, a debate that is far too little about them and far too much about 25 years of socialism. Our group thanks those people for their efforts and leadership. You should do the same, Prime Minister. This has been about the efforts of Kris, Maggie or Johan for two weeks, but the efforts that really matter are the efforts of Khalid, Paul, Jihad and Christel. You don't have to applaud me, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not need to applaud for me, for the opposition and for Mr Kitir, who may be treated with more respect. For those four people you should applaud because they stand for the commitment and resilience that our society has to offer. Those four make it an honor to lead this country. It's four people, and so there's a lot of people in our country who don't yell. They can't even strike. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u86	Once again, that's a misapprehension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u87	Mr President, Mr Calvo, first of all I would like to express my appreciation for the people you are referring to. Indeed, they are people who make a strong contribution to our society. I am convinced that the government shares that view. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say something else today. I would also like to speak on behalf of all those young entrepreneurs, all those young start-ups, those people who are taking improbable risks today, with their own capital, to help this country move forward. When I hear how over the last few hours the opposition has been calling out to shareholders, to capital, to entrepreneurs, who would have to pay the bills all the time, I ask you to applaud for those people too, for those entrepreneurs who make the difference. You should! What you are doing here by permanently playing off a string of more taxes on entrepreneurs, more taxes and taxes for people who stick their hands out of their hands, that is what our country does not need. So give it up for them, but also give it up for our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u88	Mr Van Quickenborne, you are so biased that you do not even realize that one of the four people we are expressly thanking here is an entrepreneur. Listening a little more every now and then would help.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u89	I am listening very carefully, you have just said that this government does nothing for the common man and serves the shareholders. Mr Calvo, shareholdership is the essence of companies and the economy. That's the first lesson in the economy. If we ask shareholders today to pay 30% instead of 15% of withholding tax, you do not know how much we ask them. This means, in concrete terms, that in terms of billions, we have doubled the proceeds from the withholding tax in five years' time. That is an additional EUR 2.5 billion paid by entrepreneurs. 2.5 billion euros. You pass it by, but you don't know how that weighs on the entrepreneurs. That's the essence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u90	Mr Vanvelthoven, I would remind you that you must address Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u91	Mr Calvo, another lesson in the economy I would like to give you is the following. If this government decides to double the withholding tax, this means that revenue will fall. That's what the numbers show. I've got them right here. The first eight months of 2015 compared to the first eight months of 2016: 6% less real income from withholding tax with an increase in withholding tax. The reason for this is that instead of having dividends paid out on the shares, people are going to look for escape routes and, in other words, they are going to sell shares, in order to incorporate profits. That is why we support what CD&V requires, namely that if one sells shares, one pays at least a piece of tax. That is what we think is right, but that is what you reject. As a result, income on movable property in our country is falling, despite your grievance with the increase in the withholding tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u92	Mr President, I do not want to make it too much of a figure debate. Mr Calvo, would you please tell my dear colleague the following figures? In 2010, the revenue from withholding tax amounted to EUR 2 518 million and in 2016 it amounted to EUR 4 953 million. This is almost a doubling, especially if the withholding tax is increased to 30%. Mr Vanvelthoven, I do not know where you get your figures. It'll probably be socialist arithmetic. We know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u93	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne may perhaps write a doctorate on socialism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u94	Mr Van Quickenborne, I compare the two years in which you were in charge in the present government without socialists. The revenues for the first eight months of 2015 amount to EUR 2.9 billion. The revenues for the first eight months of 2016 amount to 2.7 billion euros. This is 6% less, while the budget was expected to generate 15% more. That is exactly what we are blaming Minister Van Overtveldt for. This government is making a gap in the budget by overestimating things. In reality, less comes in. Again, the ability you claim to tax does not burden you. Income from wealth is falling in our country and this is due to the measures that this government, including CD&V, is constantly taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u95	Colleagues, I was telling you that Khalid, Paul, Jihad and Christel are not shouting, but they deserve to be heard. Prime Minister, I think you can do more for them. You have indicated seven reforms, and I will be happy to put seven against them. Firstly, it must be a mix of savings, investment and fair income. A redesign exercise must be carried out in a serious way. It is also our belief that a social approach to health care excesses can yield efficiency gains. Secondly, make corporate tax simpler and fairer. That is ideal, Mr Van Quickenborne, for the entrepreneur in the gallery. Reclaimed that EUR 700 million in illegal state aid. Thirdly, shift the burden from labour to the greatest wealth. The 10% of the most wealthy in our country own EUR 1 000 billion. Fourthly, link tax discounts and subsidies to job creation. If companies such as ING and Caterpillar close, that aid must be recovered. Fifth, block the climate money. That's a message for Minister Marghem. Invest that in an energy pact. Sixthly, Mr Van Overtveldt, I would like to stress the importance of tax fraud. I do not know if you have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, but this budget table also contains only EUR 50 million extra on tax fraud. That is as much as it is for social fraud. Prime Minister, it is our conviction that much more is possible in this country and that what links our fellow countrymen is much stronger than what divides them, but it is making them very difficult at the moment. The largest party in your majority does not like Belgium, this country. I am not really very concerned about Mr De Roover's confederal study work. The question of how they will split this country will never be resolved. However, I am concerned, Prime Minister, about the divisions which they are permanently sowing in our Belgian society, the divisions which you as Prime Minister are allowed to sow permanently in our Belgian society. For you, Mr De Roover, it is no longer about language, culture or the hard-working Fleming. For the N-VA today, it is more and more about the others not giving anything. It alternates with the Waalen, the Muslims, the refugees, the sick and the job seekers. Who is fully supported? The greatest assets and the multinationals, even when they speak French. That is a version of nationalism, Mr Dewael, Prime Minister, which I hear far too little about. It is a version of nationalism that is basically selfish, divided and miserable, and in which people are set against each other and understandable feelings of fear are turned into hatred and intolerance. That, Prime Minister, is what people in your government share with types like Orbán, Le Pen, Wilders and Trump. We can still get rid of the American electoral debates, but in our country this discourse is gradually moving towards the Council of Ministers' table, because in your government there are people, Prime Minister, who condemn young people solely on the basis of their first name. Jihad, a girl in the bleachers, has been through it with one of your secretaries. Because it is working on an online bar, because the extreme right has to be charmed, the President of the Chamber dixit, because Mr De Roover even wants to make a majority with it. Those people are allowed to do that, including from our Prime Minister. There are in your majority, Mr Michel, people for whom the Constitution is a piece of paper. You stand here and talk about our values, but if they are violated, if they are dealt with casually, then we do not hear you as Prime Minister, then you remain silent and let that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u96	I fully understand why Mr Calvo swims away from the subject in this debate. I am still very anxious about the really meaningful proposals he is going to make, rather than going completely off-topic on a path that leads nowhere. What bothers me in particular is that you are the one who pushes people into every government measure by giving the impression that they are being disadvantaged, by giving the impression that the ordinary working man is being sucked out by this government, that you are creating constant fear among the people through your discourse, and that you are now coming to the impression that you are a sacred bean that stands for union and unity. Mr Calvo, every speech you make in this House is an argument that causes division, a argument that creates opposition, an argument that causes you to turn people against each other. In this respect, you are therefore the very last of whom we have any lessons to learn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u97	So that says the guy who tried to break the cordon sanitary this weekend. Mr De Roover, I do not need a think tank to know who is in this Chamber democrats. Apparently, you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u98	Mr Calvo, the fact that you do not use a think tank is clear from about each of your speeches, but I would just like to say that I did not see you in the audience last week. So it's very strange that you're testifying to something you weren't there. That again characterizes your discourse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u99	He didn't mean to, they're misunderstood, it's always that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u100	Mr Calvo, what I do notice is that every week when I look at that scoreboard, 90% of the cases of Flemish Interest are identical to your group. Nevertheless, I have never seen you leave this Chamber indignantly for that reason. If you accuse us of not imposing conditions on those who support us, that is a hypocritical thing because we take the same attitude as you do here in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u101	Prime Minister, you've established it now, haven't you? If you take the glove, the nationalists don't have much to say. I invite you not to let them occupy the premises, not to let them spoil the place, and to make your voice heard on that occasion. That is what we expect from you as Prime Minister. You rightly said that 2016 was the year of the terrible attacks of 22 March. Colleagues, 2017 will be the year in which it will be decided how we can deal with these terrible attacks; which pages will follow on those dark pages. There may not be an election. In the United Kingdom, in the Netherlands, in France, there are. However, it is my conviction, Prime Minister, that our country is also at a crossroads. You, too, stand for a number of fundamental choices. After two years as Prime Minister, as the youngest Prime Minister in patriotic history. Which prime minister do you really want to be? How do you want to make history, as a real reformer, as the first climate premier, or as a fossil? As someone who stands for a new way of doing politics, or as someone who is lost in the back room politics? As someone who lays a dam against the advancing nationalism and populism of Mr De Roover, Mr Jambon and Mr Francken or all those who have rolled out the red carpet for them? As author of an operation justice or as postman of many invoices? That's the choice! For two years now, you have been forced by them to make the wrong choices. As a country and as a society, we pay a high price for this. But we do not accept that, as ecologists. Every day we show that differences can be transcended, beyond the language line. This year, even more than last year, we will be the voice of hope in this hemisphere. And hope is not naive, ladies and gentlemen, as a realistic alternative to Mr Dewael's naive optimism and Mr De Roover's fearful closed pessimism. We, ecologists, are possilists, we're doers. Khalid, Paul, Jihad and Christel are also possilists and doers. You, Prime Minister, could be their guide. You could be their main ally. That is why we will keep reminding you of what you can do for them all the time, day in and day out, even if it bothers you. I decide. You manage this strange, divided coalition with a lot of horns and bumps. You're somewhat managing this coalition, but you're not running the country. Just in what is your most important assignment today, inspiring this country, bringing people together, connecting people, you are the most inadequate. For that reason, Prime Minister, we cannot give you the confidence. That is why we, ecologists, Dutch or French speaking, will continue to harass you with proposals and solutions, because this country deserves better, because those four people up there deserve much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u102	Mr. President, it's almost six o'clock. As my colleague Onkelinx has kindly asked, would you have any information on the documents we need to receive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u103	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u104	The answer is no, for those who have not heard, but the day is not over. The documents are coming. Prime Minister, you have been in this position for two years now, at the head of the government. You were here in the Parliament gallery in October 2014, and I'm sure you remember the commitments you made. I would like to return to a first point that you mentioned at the time, which you made a clear commitment to. It is rare, in a government policy statement, to have such precise and quantified commitments. This is on page 48, for those who want to check: "The 2015-2016, 2017-2018 and 2019-2020 wellness envelopes will be allocated 100%." [[100 percent!]] You were proud. You have even completed your text: "The government will therefore remove the 40% reduction in the envelopes initiated by the Di Rupo government." That was your encrypted commitment. And today, your government, your majority decides to step back and abandon this commitment. It's a renunciation, unacceptable. You do this on October 17, Day of the fight against poverty and poverty. In doing so, it is the most vulnerable, disadvantaged people who could have benefited from the 100 per cent, who are affected. Today, your signal, your answer, is to tell them, 75%. It's a renunciation, and there are others. Madam Minister of Health, we discussed this last Thursday. You made a public commitment, in the media, but also here in Parliament, not to make any further savings in the health care sector. You're getting out of the budget conclave with an additional 227 million savings! How can you justify this, the next time you give another interview with a commitment as clear as this one? I still have the headlines: "Don't touch health care! If we push savings further, it will be on the patient's back." Mr Ducrame, you yourself pointed out this: "No additional savings in health care. I'm with the minister." And today, reverse everything. Another renunciation! We can go further but on health care, let's stop for a moment. The Prime Minister recalled in his speech here on Sunday noon the numbers that are increasing, even exploding, people who are on long-term sick leave, that is, more than a year. They are actually 370,000 Belgians, or more than 14% since you were there, that is, in a little over a year. There has been a growth of 60% in ten years but admit that over a year, you are doing better than any previous year: 14% increase, Prime Minister! If we look at these figures, in terms of mental illnesses related to burn out, depressions – these are official figures from Securex in particular – we should be aware that 30% of workers suffer from stress at work and that 53% of long-term illnesses are related to burn out. You can smile! For these people, of course, you can smile! What is your answer? Today, in your 2016 government policy statement, what are your proposals? First, we're going to increase overtime, we're going to liberalize the sector. We're not even gonna pay them in overtime anymore. Second, we're going to increase night work. We're going to liberalize night work more. Thirdly, we're going to extend the career to 67 years. Do you really think that with this type of measure, you will be able to reduce the number of people on long-term sick leave? This number, you yourself have quoted, it legitimately scares you from that point of view and it is intriguing. It's obviously contradictory. It is impossible to say that we will reduce burn outs and stress at work and at the same time increase and liberalize overtime, night work, career length. That's impossible! But I want to go further in the analysis. Indeed, your answer to the suffering people is to tell them, as others have done in the past when addressing the unemployed, that they will be activated. After the unemployed have been activated, you will activate the sick. Long-term patients will be forced to return to the labour market. That is your answer today. This is truly scandalous. As if these people were waiting for a government to be more active to return to the labour market! In addition, this policy also applies to pregnant women. What is the signal that you give to employers who are in the recruitment phase, for example, that if they hire a pregnant woman, they will have to pay 10% if they are forced to exclude her for prophylactic reasons? Is that what you really want, Prime Minister? Your policy is unacceptable as a choice of society, as a response to the real problems of long-term illness and the cost of work. The choice you make today will reinforce the difficulties. The numbers are here. We can meet next year. The situation will be even more serious. That's your record. I repeat that your intentions are worse than what has been put in place so far since you deepen the problem, you widen the gap as regards people in difficulty, people in pain, sick people, women, but also young people. Earlier, you did not answer my question about the latter. When you decide to cut the current youth employment budgets by €20 million, when you step back from commitments made with the social partners in March 2013, you, Prime Minister, are undermining the rights of working young people between the ages of 18 and 21, the ones we need. So you're going to cut their wages. Indeed, we are talking about a reduction of 175 euros gross. You can do the math. You have not committed yourself that tomorrow these young people will be more affected than they are today. You're not even committed to getting them the same salary. But how could you do this with a saving of 20 million euros? Read the first reactions to this measure today, it's cynical! It's obviously cynical. For an employer, this may be interesting, but what signal do you send to young people? You're sending a signal to pregnant women, I said. You also send a signal to young people: "You don't deserve a real place in the labour market". That is the opposite of what we must do to include them in the society in which we want to go. I do not have time to develop, of course, but my colleagues, Benoît Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt, will do so later in the parliamentary work: the EUR 25 million you are going back to Development Cooperation, frankly! Also look at the numbers, your balance sheet. There was 0.63% of GDP in 2010, 0.49% in 2014. The decreases had actually already started under the Di Rupo era but you rose to 0.42% in 2015 and, for 2017, you are still withdrawing 25 million euros. There's not gonna be anything left! And then you will complain that there are so many problems in the world and that there are so many refugee candidates too. Shouldn't we just invest in upstream, in prevention? But he's the least of your worries! Other commitments have been made, including recently. Minister Peeters is no longer in the assembly, and I understand that. But the CD&V is still represented because the group leader is there. With regard to capital gains, on 13 October 2016, Minister Peeters gave us the hope of hundreds of millions of euros. That's what he said in an interview. October 16th, zero! In the budget tables which we have not yet received and which we will soon receive, that is zero! That's the commitment you made. Mr Ducrame, I will go back to the employment rate because, earlier, we did not have the opportunity to complete our reflections. You can, of course, quote other figures. It's important and I didn't deny the numbers you mentioned. But you know very well that in terms of employment, it is like in a budget, there are two columns. In the budget, there is revenue and expenditure. For employment, there is job creation, but also the number of people on the labour market. It is only by linking these two figures that this makes sense. Otherwise, you'll say, I have a balanced budget because I cut spending. Oh, yes, obviously, you are doing this right! But, as the Minister of Finance knows very well, we also look at revenue and, here, disaster! Let us now look at the employment rate. This is the parameter you chose and defended here in the gallery. Let's see where you stand in relation to the neighbouring countries. I went back to the numbers, Mr. Ducrame. Belgium is in decline and it is the only country with Luxembourg. All other countries, from November 2014 to May 2016, are on the rise. Belgium will not reach 73.2%. And that, Mr. Laaouej, is not because of Brexit. The average increase in Europe, Mr Ducrame, is 1.6%. While we do not say that everything is well, that everything is better and that employment is the priority. As far as the employment rate is concerned, you are down from the situation you inherited two years ago. You deny, Prime Minister. That's your right. But I challenge you, when you come to the rostrum, to come out of other figures in terms of employment rates. They are validated at European level. I'll keep them at your disposal. The same goes for the poverty line. In your commitment here in October 2014, you stated that the government would bring the minimum social security benefits to the poverty line. Your balance sheet is a flat encephalogram. In 2002, 77 per cent of social integration income; in 2012, 77 per cent of the poverty line; in 2016, 77 per cent. There is a difference of EUR 250 per month from the poverty line. For you, it doesn't mean anything, but for the people involved, it's huge. He had to be pointed at on this day of October 17. We could go on, but I don't have time to list all your renunciations. We will return to that in the budgetary debates. We expected the investment of EUR 1 billion in SNCB. At the moment, there's nothing in the budget. We need this investment plan. When will he come? That billion is already insufficient compared to the 3 billion you're returning. You may have the document with you. Maybe you can commit later. Where is that billion investment? On the other hand, the planned de-financing from the start in the expenditure column is very real. In the North as in the South, people feel it, every day, in trains: the number of places, delays, trains deleted, etc. We haven't seen a single euro of the investment you've committed to yet. According to page 99 of the declaration, "the energy pact will be implemented before the end of 2015". It's soon 2015! Oh no, it's 2016 and we're talking about the 2017 budget! The energy pact is still not there. Here too, give up! There too, late! I still have a lot to say, but I don't have time anymore. Prime Minister, I will tell them later. Your renunciation is a form of abdication in relation to the commitments you have made, in relation to the hopes you have created, in relation to the people who have believed in your word. These people have been waiting for results for two years, not in relation to what we would like, but in relation to what you yourself said. Even in relation to this, you are not able today to answer them and say "talk held". No, your word has not been kept, although there would have been a way to develop other proposals. We talked about it, we'll go back to it during the budget work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u105	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make two major political observations, which can be drawn from your statement yesterday but also from your decisions. The first observation is that last week you came to explain to us that the crisis within the government was justified by the need for an ambitious reform in terms of corporate taxes, fairer taxation, mobilization of savings, an investment plan. A game was then played between the different parties of your majority. From this game, between last Tuesday and yesterday, Sunday, nothing has changed! Niks, nada! Not a single extra point. We can then ask ourselves what are the deals that explain the exit from the crisis between last Tuesday and yesterday. If I believe the headlines of Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen, I really feel that the trench war is still open. No one's fooled. That is true; you have led to a budgetary exercise, but this is a minimum exercise, an accounting exercise; I will return to that. Questions about the soundness of your budget remain complete. But above all, you have postponed the heart of the reforms that Belgium is in dire need of. Frankly, we wonder if your government is still in a position to mobilize. Supposedly, this government showed a lot of cohesion and was a symbol of the goed bestuur. We can't see it! You only want not to fall. The central question is: are you still in a position to decide on ambitious reforms for employment, in the general interest, or will everyone camp on their party's positions? However, action is vital when we see the economic situation in Belgium; I will return to it. The second major political observation of the past few days concerns most of the economies you have decided. You got there late, but when I look at the timeline, I get a better understanding of the events. Look in the mirror and remember what happened on September 11th. The N-VA celebrated its 15th birthday in Plopsaland. There, the president of the N-VA, Bart De Wever, had declared urbi and orbi that the 2017 budget would settle on the account of social security and health care. That's what your government did. In a way, we can call your budget "the Plopsaland budget of the N-VA". Let us come to the seriousness and soundness of your budget. In September, the Monitoring Committee carried out an update. The target of 4.2 billion had been set for 2017, and 1.6 billion additional for 2016. By I don't know what magic, you decided to cut that $4.2 billion in 2017 to $3 billion, and you stopped there. We had not understood very well why he had gone from 2.4 to 4.2, except to speak in verlan: two four, four two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u106	I didn't think about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u107	Didn't you think about it? It was totally by chance! And then it turned into $3 billion. But on the other hand, the effort of 1.6 billion in 2016, which you had to make to get into the nails, is it, as by miracle, dropped to 300 million euros. Not a single word of explanation about it! Mr President of the Committee on Finance, you will still have to explain to us how magic these figures were, by chance, reduced. We'll see what the European Commission says. I would remind you that the Commission is imposing a minimum trajectory of 0.6% per year on Belgium. Here too, you invented a new model. I bet you'll tell me, I can hear you from here: 1.2% over two years. I bet that's what you're gonna do. You said it yesterday, absolutely. That is not what the European Commission demands. It requires 0.6% per year. We will see what the European Commission will say and whether it will follow your reasoning, because it is not really a sign of solidity and seriousness. You decided, I recalled a moment ago, to achieve the majority of your savings in social security and health care. You also don't talk, in the famous picture you gave us, about what it would take to achieve balance in 2018. So this is the nebula! There are numbers everywhere except here. I can't imagine it's not done on purpose. I think we would all have fallen to the ground to see the savings needed to reach balance in 2018. I'm not even talking about 2019 yet. But if you're so sure you get to balance, why don't you write the black-on-white numbers? Again, it would be a sign of seriousness. You know that this is an impressive figure, since the bulk of the effort to finance the tax shift will be marked at that time. There are a few other nebulous points in relation to your budget. The famous redesign of the administrations. I would remind you that in total, you had planned 750 million over the period 2015-2020, that is to say 300 million in 2016 and 2017. You said that you were abandoning him, rightly, because what you did was useless: a central wave of purchases that brought not much. It had to be done, I agree. But then these famous 300 million in 2016-17 are no longer on the track. What are they replaced by? Mystery. And finally, at this stage, I would like to stop for a moment on one point: the company car project. You know that we have tabled a proposal that the budget allocated to company cars, insofar as the citizens may wish to move elsewhere than by car, should stop financing the plugs. Good, so if we give them a choice! However, in terms of alternatives to company cars, in any case for drivers who do not live in Brussels, we must ask ourselves how they will arrive in the capital. Prime Minister and Minister Bellot, can you assure us that the two RER lines to Ottignies and Nivelles, which are essential, will benefit from a massive and rapid investment so that they are completed and have an adequate timetable? Not a euro appears in the government's budget set-up! That is why it is really time, Prime Minister, for you to make this clear commitment here and now. As far as company cars are concerned, there are several questions. First, do we agree to give their holders the full advantage? I'm hearing about the package. In this case, however, this does not correspond to the full advantage they had. Secondly, does this mean that there will be no new taxation, both on the employer's side and on the worker's side? Thirdly, will workers and employers whose wage share is not defied be able to benefit from the same advantage? Otherwise, discrimination would obviously be unacceptable. The interested parties therefore await answers to all these questions. We called for this budget to be allocated to a "quality of life" envelope, particularly for families. It is of course important that no loss is recorded at the expense of workers and that the benefit is fully maintained. I would now like to turn to the socio-economic aspect. To make good decisions, you first need a good diagnosis. It is the doctor who speaks; I cannot help it. All these figures have already been mentioned today, Prime Minister; I had already presented them to you last week. Between a portrait of only the situation in Belgium and only that one, and an analysis that takes into account the reality of our neighbouring countries, the picture is obviously quite different. If we look only at Belgium, we can say that we are happy with ourselves. If we look at our neighbours, whatever criteria we take, the situation is not idyllic. In 2016, GDP growth, whether taken from the Federal Office of the Plan or the IMF, was lower than that of Germany or the Netherlands. As far as private investment is concerned, you are still looking forward to their 6.2% increase. You know that this is partly due to low interest rates. However, the Plan Office estimates growth for 2017 at 2.5 per cent, a decrease of 3.7 per cent. You also welcome the increase in exports. Again, in 2016, it's good, but in 2017, according to the Plan Bureau, the trade balance is expected to be negative again. The purchasing power, I talked about it earlier. You're still talking about 2% and the Plan Office, commenting on real disposable income growth, estimates that it was 1.4% in 2016 and will be 1% in 2017. I come to Eurostat and to inflation. In Belgium, it is ten times higher than the euro area average. As you know, this is due in particular to the increase in VAT on electricity and excise duties on fuels, all of which are obviously due directly to your government's political decisions. Finally, with regard to employment, should I mention all the announcements of collective redundancies, which we are talking about for a moment and which we are forgetting in your government, reminding us of how well everything is going? It should also be recalled that growth in Belgium's employment rate in the second quarter of 2016 is the third lowest in the euro area. All this to say that the situation is anything but idyllic. That is why more must be done and decisions must be taken soon; I was also talking about them earlier. I would now like to turn to labour reform. The Minister of Employment has just returned. I went to review the government agreement on the various labour reform projects. The government agreement stated: "Large employment reforms must be carried out, with full respect for social consultation". On the form - I must say again here - you have not respected social consultation, or at least you have tried to pretend, since it is no longer social consultation, it is social consultation locked up. The content is not there and the procedure is not there either. You're giving a very strict pattern. Only details can evolve, when they can still. Mr Minister for Employment, as far as the WWW is concerned, I shall call it the "wensbaar and werkbaar werk", which is translated differently in French, the choice of government is astounding. In the background, what did you do? You took the "wensbaar" part and the "werkbaar" part is returned to we don't know very well when, or even with what result. In practice, your project today is a mega "wensbaar werk". Indeed, what have you decided? What did you decide? What will apply with certainty? This is the whole thing that employers wanted. On the other hand, all the other questions, which were particularly concerned with workers, were referred to social consultation, which could obviously block them. Whether it's family-work reconciliation, whether it's savings-leaves and savings accounts, whether it's floating schedules, whether it's occasional telework, whether it's on the employer group or training, all this, no, it's supposedly in, but it's not in the legislation. It's referred to social consultation. On the other hand, annualization is now. The increase in the number of hours from 91 to 143 hours and the credit for an extra hundred hours is now! I find it particularly unbalanced. Even Sarkozy says "flexible work, yes, but there is no question of working more to earn less" and he wants to continue to finance overtime. That's not what you're doing. I would like to conclude my reasoning on overtime. Not everyone earns three thousand euros a month or more. There are also small wages. In our personal capacity and on behalf of the party, we have always been in favour of moving forward on labour flexibility, but provided that it is a balanced flexibility, with progress and special attention for workers. You annualize, so you won't be 45 hours a week, you can do more a week and less another week. I agree, but you will agree that for a small salary or even a medium salary, the week you work 45 hours, and that you have no other possibility because the boss doesn't necessarily leave a choice, an hour of a week, it's not the same as an hour of a night and an hour of a weekend. In this respect, the hourly quotas you are announcing, without any recovery and without additional paid hours, are particularly appealing for small and medium-sized wages. I think there was a way to reach an agreement with the social partners. When you presented your previous grade, they were all unhappy. At the same time, the President of the UCM said that there was a way to reach agreement on the 1996 Act and on the IPA, since negotiations for a new interprofessional agreement would be opened. I therefore think that this was possible, especially since there are sectors that apply much more than the 91-hour quota. What is being done with the sectors that already apply 150 or 180 hours in the quota of the famous non-recoverable hours, for example the construction or automotive sectors? Are we going to say that, since there is an agreement, we are leaving them the possibility of continuing the agreement or are you going to add the 100 extra hours? I can assure you that the representatives of the workers, who were swept away on these matters while they agreed to move forward, are waiting for answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u108	Mrs. Fonck, you may be misinformed. We found consensus on the two bills, the 1996 law and the workable and flexible projects. I hope that we will take a decision in the Council of Ministers on the two or three projects as soon as possible. So what you're saying is not correct. The menu is also included in our project; it is not just the base. I am convinced that we have found an acceptable solution for trade unions, with the social partners, especially with regard to the 38 hours. All the elements you mentioned are in the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u109	...for the concertation while on the rest, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u110	In this regard, Mrs Fonck, we have asked the Group of Ten for an opinion. We've been waiting for months and months. Now we've decided. The decision we made is reasonable and has my preference. I am convinced that the unions have asked to play a role, for example in the 38-hour discussion. We have decided, according to Article 20a, that the annualisation of the 38 hours will be activated at sectoral and enterprise level. The union can activate the 38 hours as the basis for the annualization. I hope that you and the other Members of Parliament will disseminate the information that this is a consensus within the government, which is acceptable to the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u111	This clearly means that today you are not going to sink the annualisation part of working time by leaving the part on family life, telework, groups of employers to social consultation. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u112	The foundation is on the menu, but in the menu, the social partners are responsible in practice. They decide for example whether, in the menu of certain sectors, leave is in or not. This is the idea: to work with a menu in which sectors can choose which instruments are most reasonable and acceptable to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u113	The minister spoke; can I ask him a question? It's complicated. The great difficulty, if I am not mistaken, is the following. You have, as you say, "a base", mandatory, legally foreseen, and next to it, a menu to negotiate sectorally. You say that you will most certainly find agreements with trade union organisations. Agreements will aim to do the best in the context of sectoral menus. But the big difficulty is that, through the foundation itself, you impose a series of regressions on workers. I'll give you an example. Overtime without compensatory rest was, if I remember correctly, 78 hours and could reach 143 hours by means of a sectoral agreement. What have you decided within the framework of the compulsory common base? You have decided to increase the said hours from 78 to 143, without sectoral negotiations. In addition, you have decided to increase from 40 hours per week to 45 hours per week, without any extra pay for overtime worked. This is also part of the common foundation imposed on workers. We are challenging these measures. Indeed, measures that can be beneficial should be able to be negotiated sector by sector. In addition, you impose, through a law, measures that constitute a social regression.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u114	Mr President, I would like to point out that, as far as the 38 hours are concerned, we have found a technical solution. Thus, Article 20a provides that trade unions may activate annualisation at the enterprise level, at the sectoral level. This is the new step we have taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u115	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u116	There is still a difference between annualization (...) for a year and the measures you take at the level of 45 hours, overtime. In addition, with regard to the quota, you have decided to introduce a new system of 100 overtime hours, without any reason whatsoever. This is in the common base.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u117	Mr President, we will, of course, have an opportunity to have discussions on legislation in the parliamentary process, since the intention is to validate legislation very quickly in the Council of Ministers. Indeed, when it comes to such technical matters, there may be a number of confusions, if the texts are not available. Having said that, I would like to support Mr Kris Peeters' remarks. You are right to say that a commitment has been made, first of all, to a base and then to a menu. The core component includes the concept of annualization. You were right to point that out. On Friday, at the Council of Ministers, we validated an extremely important point that the activation of this principle of annalisation of the number of hours is not done unilaterally through the law, but through an initiative via the labour regulation or the sectoral convention. On this subject, we have since after Easter tried to start a principle of consultation with the social partners. Minister Peeters met formally and informally with the social partners on several occasions. Subsequently, from July onwards, a text was sent. And a week before the budget was finalised, I myself met with the social partners who, on both sides of the bench, told me that they would not be able to reach an agreement on this subject to give an opinion to the government. That's the reality! In view of this, we have taken on our responsibilities and I dare say that my conviction is that, thanks to this law and also to the 1996 law, we will be able to give a chance, in the coming weeks and months, to help reactivate the consultation within the Group of Ten on important issues concerning labour relations: flexibility, the wage margin under the 1996 law. And I will see, as I said yesterday, the social partners extremely quickly, probably later this week, in order to make sure to explain precisely, technically, the arguments in support, what the situation is and thus to give all its chances – this is our wish – to social consultation. One may not agree on the organization taken in the law. I respect our difference of view in relation to this, Mrs Onkelinx or Mrs Fonck, but the will - in any case in implementation - is to keep an important space for the social partners in the framework of the activation of the floor and in the context of the menu negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u118	Prime Minister, are you here to say that there will be no direct effects of annalisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u119	I'll explain here that the annualization...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u120	Yes or no, actually? That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u121	You ask a question in a way that does not allow me to say yes or no. So we can actually do simplistic things, but that's not my choice. (..) Do not feel targeted. Really, that wasn't the point. I repeat that the activation of the annualisation component will have to be arranged in the framework of a working regulation or a sectoral agreement. You will also have the opportunity to see the texts in the parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u122	I think the answer is not very clear, Prime Minister. And I'm not in a shortcut or an easy critique.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u124	It's actually very simple. Yes or no, will there remain room for the social partners, not to negotiate and agree on conciliation, leave, telework, training, etc. But will there be a concertation on the whole and, therefore, an opportunity to change the texts on the whole? The real question is that. If this is not the case, then we will see that there is an imbalance in the way you approach the problem. If so, we'll see. I take the example of training. If there is one subject that is a major issue in terms of preserving employment and the competitiveness of enterprises, that is the one. However, I would like to point out that 43% of the current jobs will be automated in 20 years' time. This demonstrates that this is an essential issue. You've already frozen the training, which represents 1.9% of the wage bill, for the last two years. It's time to move forward. I repeat that I have no problem developing flexibility - my group's position differs from that of Mrs Onkelinx - but provided that it is balanced and that the reality of families, women and even men is respected. Let's recognize that women are much more involved in family logistics – perhaps not everywhere, but they still do more. For the 1996 Act, again, consultation has been postponed. As far as starter jobs are concerned, I would like to make two comments. You lower the gross minimum wage. Earlier, I told you that you absolutely had to commit – and you responded positively – to avoid any net loss of wages. I have done a small calculation, Prime Minister: 45,000 young people under the age of 21 are concerned today. If we make a budget projection to examine how not to reduce their net salary, it represents an annual budget of 62 million euros, of which I have not seen the trace in your budget. However, with a quick projection calculation, it is the amount that is necessary for you not to reduce the net minimum wage of young people. I hope that when the government declares that the net wage will not fall, it is not because it refers this issue to the federated entities. I would point out that the measures relating to the target group have been transferred as a result of the sixth reform of the State. Of course, it is up to the federal government to ensure that the net salary is maintained. Finally, in terms of employment, I would like to address the gap between pregnant women. It's a subject that doesn't seem to interest much of the world. This measure, whether in a small business or in a hospital, where 90% of the staff is female and young, which consists of punishing the employer, who does not find another job for a nurse for example, will penalise women in their search for employment. When the employer goes to see them, he will tell them that, if they have not yet had children, they risk costing him a pregnancy. This is a famous problem, it is a terrible perverse effect on the commitment of women, and especially young women. I would like to address health care and link it to the fight against poverty. Prime Minister, you mentioned this yesterday in relation to the population at risk of poverty. This does not prevent you from making an extra screw spin. As regards the increase of the waiting period to 12 months for disability, a young person who has been working for nine months, it is "no luck" if he falls ill! You have increased the waiting period for disability from six to twelve months! This directly penalizes access to health care. In young people, cancers can happen! To hear you say that there will be no impact on the patient is therefore shocking. To hear you say that everything's fine and we cut the budget, it's a slap to all the health professionals who invest in the day-to-day for the sick. Don't need more health budget? What are you going to answer to the donors, the volunteers who, each year, are mobilizing for operations Cap 48 or Télévie? Through these operations, they say that there is not enough budget for patients, for cancer, for disability issues. The fact that we don't need an extra budget in the federal government, I think it raises a lot of questions. Madam Minister of Health, you said no once, twice, three times: "We will not make any extra savings." What have you done in this government? Did they take everything from you? You didn't say anything? You didn't resist? We have to fight! You remind me of Annie Cordy's song, which says, "I'd love to, but I can point." I thought a minister, when he's committed to saying we won't make any extra savings on health, he's fighting! If he doesn't fight and he doesn't get anything, this minister doesn't keep up the road anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u125	Mrs Fonck, I am very attentive to what you are saying, and you are right to speak on this. You remember the exchange this morning with the Prime Minister. He said, about the 900 million, that it would be kind of painless, that it would not affect patients. I have just heard this afternoon that the General Council has just rejected the budget. In the federal government's note, for example, 4,000 registered beds were removed, maternity services closed, emergency services closed, and intensive neonatalogy care services closed. Is that what the government calls "not touching the quality of care and not touching patients"?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u126	I will answer you in the place of the government, Mrs.Onkelinx, because the government will not have the courage to respond. The government does not realize that hospitals, as a result of repeated decisions, find themselves in major difficulty through direct savings imposed on them and the removal of beds. As if all of a sudden, when one in three hospitals is in an untenable financial situation, these measures would correct something! We've been projecting in hospitals. The hospitals have already done their little math. Removing and imposing additional savings clearly means depriving ourselves of staff, including nurses. Depriving nurses involves less time, less patient care. Do you know that nurses have less and less time to give patients, for the simple reason that patients are getting older, and have very heavy pathologies? Do you think that by removing 4,000 beds (and even if it was only 2,000) we will suddenly be able to get these patients out overnight? It's not a young man who has a hip prosthesis. I'm talking about elderly patients. The quality of patient care will be affected. Professionals who already have an incredible turnover will be severely punished. They're gonna have to do the same with fewer nurses. Madam Minister, if you weren't a doctor, you would be accused of not being interested in the field. As a doctor, let me tell you how completely hallucinating this is. Not only do you do that, but you also impose additional penalties on hospitals. Indeed, where will the fees you receive go? You know the system of revoking fees. Some of these, between 70 and 80 per cent, return to the hospital. Again, you sanction again! I'm going to the nurses at home. Do you also touch the fees of these? Is it worth reminding you that in terms of wage developments, they have received much less than the evolution of the cost of living in recent years? Do you touch it? Excuse me, I find that in terms of health, you're slapping all health professionals. You're going to destroy jobs, especially for hospital nurses. In addition, you will touch patients directly or indirectly. I heard you earlier, Mr. Servais Verherstraeten. You said the mutualities agreed. I would remind you that today the General Council has said no; I would remind you that you do not comply with the legal standard you have set yourself at 1.5%. I will not go back to terrorism, because my colleagues Georges Dallemagne and Vanessa Matz have spoken widely about it. We were waiting for the recovery plan. We were waiting for you to commit to what led to this bad government saga this past week. We expected to move towards a great social pact. In conclusion, I will quote you, Prime Minister. Yesterday you concluded your speech with the words: "We want a better, stronger, more prosperous future. We want a more optimistic future." I agree with you. I also share your reform objectives regarding support for employment and the economy. I share your concern to protect and develop employment. But what have you brought to those who are working to redress Belgium? I am talking about these conscientious and motivated workers. Yes, there are. What have you brought to these entrepreneurs and to these independents in the commercial and non-commercial sectors, small and large, which do not count their hours or the risks they take? I am also talking about these motivated, sometimes visionary, qualified researchers whose capacity for innovation will determine our future prosperity. What is your answer for all those I have just quoted? Your response is a one-week government crisis that results in the postponement, later or forever, of any decision, in corporate tax, in fairer taxation, in the mobilization of savings towards the real economy or in a national stimulus investment plan. That's where we expected you at the CDH. That is what, as representatives of the CDH, we wanted to lead as a policy. That's where we would have supported you. Yesterday you spoke about the question of poverty: what is your answer? You're putting a huge layer of savings back into health care. May I remind you that between 40 and 60 per cent of people have to postpone care because of a lack of income. You quoted Saint-Exupéry yesterday and said, "It is not a matter of planning the future, but of making it possible." Certainly, but on behalf of my group, let me add this: we must make the future possible with the citizens, we must build this future with the citizens and not with the citizens. As you will understand, we will not vote on the motion of confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u127	I would like to give an answer to Mrs Fonck, who has just taken the place of the Minister for Health. Mrs Fonck, we have followed three broad lines on the additional savings of EUR 227 million, because you know that three quarters of the savings are supported by the Insurance Committee. Firstly, we take as many measures as possible that we embed in a policy vision, prescribe more the cheapest medicine so that the invoice for the patient goes down. Secondly, we are taking a number of measures to speed up and support reforms in hospitals, given the precarious financial situation of hospitals, which you cannot give me responsibility for. That is because there has been no programming in the past, no intervention has taken place, there has been a proliferation of recognized but irresponsible beds. There's got to be some sort of order in the hospitals. They need to work more in networks. In the MAHA study you can see that the number of paediatric beds in 2014 was only 40% occupied. We can no longer afford that in the future. Thirdly, we have chosen to save the patient maximum in this difficult round of savings. You're sitting here talking about partial downsizing of the index, Mrs. Fonck. You say it must be in balance. Well, one cannot spare the cabbage and the goat. We've had to make choices. It is the strongest shoulders that bear the burdens. We are indeed calling for an effort from them, but I have always said that the patient must be spared as much as possible. What do you want now? You can tell me what you want to do now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u128	As far as networking is concerned, Madam Minister, we obviously need to work towards that. In view of the hospital landscape, a whole study of the Federaal Kenniscentrum voor de Gezondheid (KCE) was called for, which was to support a comprehensive reform. No one's calling that into question. You said, at the beginning of the legislature, that it would indeed be necessary, on the basis of this study and in consultation, to move forward to change this landscape. But what you are doing here, for reasons of savings, is abruptly, now, immediately, for 2017, save 92 million by abolishing services that are essential (emergency services, neonatology). It's a rare violence for me. Indeed, hospitals will have difficulties and will have to lay off. The consequences will also be visible on the quality of care. Compared to your remarks that, as the Prime Minister said this morning on the radio, you are going to go to the scalpel by doing almost nothing, that is not true. These are really axe savings!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u129	Madam Minister, first of all on antibiotics, you are increasing the moderator ticket, because that is what this is all about. I had already spoken earlier. Is there a problem of excessive use of antibiotics and, above all, inadequate use of antibiotics? The answer is yes, but the way you try to address this problem is not part of a public health strategy at all. You're gonna hit next to the nail. You will certainly have a little more money, but that is not to say that the use of antibiotics will be limited. An effective policy in this area goes first and foremost through those who prescribe. Secondly, on hospitals, you talk about their anarchic evolution in recent years. I'll give you some numbers. You're going to tell me that there are too many hospital beds in Belgium per 1,000 inhabitants. Do you know that among the OECD countries – I have them all here – it was in Belgium that between 2000 and 2013, the number of beds per 1 000 inhabitants was cut the most? All this to say that there is no anarchic evolution at all. These are OECD figures. Secondly, should the hospital landscape be changed? Yes. I've been saying it for a long time. Should hospital funding be reformed? Yes. Is this happening overnight by removing additional millions? This is not even done with the scalpel, not even with the axe, but with the chainsaw. Should we, in this way, remove beds? Is there a public health response in this way, minister? No, three times no. You will result in such a reduction in the budget of hospitals, which are already in a difficult situation and which all have to be rebuilt because they are more than 20 to 30 years old, that there will be job losses and that this will have a qualitative impact on the patient. Finally, I would still like you to give serious thought to the fees and the reality of the incomes of home nurses. What you said when you said that they all had big incomes is wrong, with schedules and a pace of work at least as important as that of a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u130	Mr. President, thank you. Some elements to the minister as she intervened. It must be said that the insurance committee supports the measures that you propose, while this morning the health care providers and representatives of the health care organizations voted against. It is also evidence of some contempt for these health actors. We have set aside moments in the Health Committee so that you can come and tell us where you are in the reform of hospital funding. Then, to add more than 200 million to savings at the last minute, you come to speed up processes by saying that it will allow 92 million additional savings, notably by aiming for bed closures in maternity and paediatrics. Madam Minister, I still wanted to remind you of your previous saving measure: 18 million by reducing the number of days spent in maternity. You had to go back because you did not cooperate with your colleagues in the Regions and because you neglected to set up the ambulance with the women who were giving birth. You are repeating the same process here. With regard to indexation, it is still fascinating to see that your reforms refuse to harmonise and limit the often excessive remuneration of certain categories of doctors. As you do not dare to take your responsibilities in this area, you are attacking the indexing of all health care providers. This again reflects contempt for general practitioners and nurses. Finally, for antibiotics, measures must be taken with regard to providers and prescribers. Similarly, citizens should be informed and made aware. But why punish the patient who, in any case, has access to these medicines only if they are prescribed to him? This is an outright outright provision that runs counter to a worthy public health policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this speech by thanking the various parliamentarians of the majority and the opposition who have spoken. To govern is to express choices; to govern is to form the diagnosis of a situation in the most lucid way possible and to undertake reforms to bring solutions to the challenges we face. Through this government statement, we wanted to...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, read Rule 48 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u133	I think we had a debate throughout the day where we managed to listen. The Rules allow the government to intervene in the debate after the group leaders, as all my predecessors have consistently done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was therefore saying that we have made choices by introducing a budget and activating a package of reforms. As far as the budget is concerned, we wanted to... [[Long Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u134	It is not very worthy to do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u135	At any time, the government can ask for the floor. That is even stated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u136	Mr President, my first objective was to approve the budget. It is a three billion euro exercise spread over 2016 and 2017, representing 1.2 % of our gross revenue. We made that choice. In addition to the budget, we have also opted for a second wave of structural and substantial reforms. Allow me to comment on the budget. Three billion euros. Six hundred million taxes, mainly on capital. No labour tax, no consumption tax, no reform of the indexation mechanism. No additional effort is required from the unemployed. And the growth of the welfare envelope by 15% compared to the previous legislature. EUR 3.4 billion to reduce the tax burden on labour, especially for low and medium wage earners. A clear choice and a coherent choice! We have also opted for structural and substantial reforms. Today, in the context of the discussions and our discussions, we have the opportunity to provide some concrete answers. An important point for us is indeed the conviction that it should be possible to create more jobs. Creating more jobs means more security for social cohesion, and that is our commitment, that is our conviction. For example, in order to achieve this objective, we have made an important decision on the reform of our labour market. What is reality? A few months ago, before the summer, we gave the social partners the opportunity to give advice. I also had the opportunity, one week before the start of the budgetary discussions, to have talks with employers and employees. I understand clearly that they did not intend to give an opinion on our concrete proposals. That is why we have decided in the bosom of the government to assume our responsibilities. What is on the table with regard to the labour market? A reform, I want to say, which is balanced. Contrary to what I have heard, it is not a matter of ensuring that this reform takes place in the interests of only one of the parties. For example, when we allow this reform, as we do, to make a gift of leave, when a colleague has a sick child...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u138	Is that outrageous, Mrs. Onkelinx? Is that your interpretation? I want to go on with it. For example, today, when you have to go to school, impromptuly, because your child has an urgent medical concern or appointment, you have to take leave. This will no longer be the case in the future thanks to the occasional telework which will now be granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u139	Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to stop with the counter-truths. Since this morning, it has been counter-truth after counter-truth. What did he just say about the Peeters Act? That it will be enough for someone to ask their employer to lighten their work week so that they can, of course, be granted it under the Peeters Act. That's bullshit! Your law doesn't say that at all. Your law says that you must now respect your employer's will to increase the number of hours worked per week to 45 hours, without any overtime. That's what the Peeters Law says! Don't come here to tell anything! Who do you think we are?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u140	Mrs Onkelinx, it is your right, you have decided to sow anxiety, anxiety, to say counter-truths. What is in the text does not correspond to what you have just indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u141	Mr Prime Minister, if I have heard you correctly, what you are now proposing as a model of solidarity is the provision by the workers of leave to other workers. Here we see a return at the beginning of the 19th century. It's no longer solidarity, it's charity! Is this your model? Is this the model of your majority? At one point, the Liberals fought to organize solidarity on the assumption that this should not only be done on a voluntary basis, that it should be framed. What are we witnessing today? A decline of at least a hundred years in social law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u142	With the law on the table, we propose, for example, that the days of leave that have not been used should not be lost, as is the case today, in the event of a change of employer. That's fairness for the workers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u143	Prime Minister, this is amazing! Since yesterday, you have been forced to keep telling, to make social communication because you feel that your communication does not go to the public. I'll confirm it! Are you saying today that anyone, in a company, who needs to take free time to pick up his child at school will have that right? That's what you just said! You're lying! The Peeters Act will not allow that! On the other hand, it short-circuits trade unions that negotiate this kind of thing by sector. We're going to individualize the relationship! Mr. Michel, go find your boss and tell him your daughter is sick! What will he answer you? I can't give you a day off tomorrow because production takes precedence! We must live in reality, Mr. Michel, and not live in a world of Bisounours!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I do think that applause for the Prime Minister is appropriate. He's missed all the deadlines for the past week. He didn't make it to his State of the Union. Europe does not have the documents. But congratulations, because you made the seven-hour news! I would like to take this opportunity. There's a question that hasn't been answered yet and the answer to that question has to be live in the journal. Instead of saying about everything and everything else...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u145	Mr Calvo, most of the news has already ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u146	Mr Prime Minister, can you tell the 11 million Belgians when this tax justice will come? Could you tell Mr Verherstraeten whether or not that link is coming? If you do organise a press conference, tell us the real news that this Parliament still doesn't know. Do that for all the cameras; then you will have done something right and otherwise it is a vulgar show of...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u147	The very, very big difference between you and us, Mr Calvo, is that you speak a lot and we act. We make decisions and reform the country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u148	Mr Calvo asks for the floor for a personal statement. Only Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u149	Mr President, Minister, it is not possible. You now have the unique opportunity to address all countrymen live. Then you don't just do that with slogans. Then you don't just do that with small talk to the opposition. [[Rumor]] You have the floor now. It's been granted to you. You're the number one in this country. However, take advantage of the opportunity. I repeat my question. I will not stop until you answer my question. That press conference won't stop until you answer. When is the fair contribution due? Is it linked to corporation tax or not, as Mr Verherstraeten said? Answer this question, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u150	Mr Calvo is very eager to listen to me and to hear my answers, but he is unable to let me speak; I regret that. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u151	Let the Prime Minister speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I intend to respond to the various questions, but I will begin with structural reforms. A second major reform concerns the 1996 law. That is an important signal that we are sending out, and it is an important point for the future. It is an opportunity to guarantee our competitiveness and to ensure job creation, but also to offer a margin to social dialogue. This is also an important signal for the coming weeks and months. We hope that in the first months of 2017 it will be possible to give the social partners room for a very important point, in particular the evolution of gross wages of employees in our country and competitiveness for our companies. On these two subjects, legislation will be submitted very quickly to the Council of Ministers and will, I imagine, be able to be debated with great passion in this House. The third important point is the willingness to move forward on the digital agenda. And contrary to what I have heard, this goes far beyond a law, of course important, the e-commerce law, which must promote the creation of tens of thousands of jobs in a changing sector and which is extremely important for the future. The digital agenda is also about continuing to ensure that our country is able to meet the challenge, not only for business life, but also for authority, for administrations. While it is possible today to shop and carry out banking transactions via the Internet, we also need to look at how we can promote relations with the administration, in a simplified way and by making greater use of the capacity offered for new technologies. A fourth important point, also a strong signal, is the reform of taxation in the area of mobility. We are aiming for a different tax on petrol tickets, with an effect on companies, not on employees. What's the meaning of this? I repeat that it is our intention to give the person who gets a company car more freedom of choice either to choose another means of transport or to opt for more net wages. There will also be an opportunity to present the proposals more precisely. And I am already answering a few questions on this subject: there are 650 000 company cars in our country; estimates have been made on the basis of an assumption that 100 000 of the people concerned would join such a mechanism and decide to move towards another mode of transport. It will, of course, have to be fine-tuned, because it is typically the kind of reforms for which forecasting is not simple. I continue with another important point on which my colleagues and I have tried to react. Several have indicated this – Mr Nollet, I think – with good reason: in recent months the employment situation has improved, but – as I said yesterday, read my comments again – the employment rate remains relatively stable. No one denies he's stagnating. But it is because many young people are entering the labour market and the youth employment rate is far too low and has fallen significantly in the last decade. That is why we are taking a step with the starter jobs. We can say what we want, I want to say that, as part of this measure, our ambition is not to allocate the net wages of young workers, Mrs Fonck, but to work on gross wages. I would also like to make it clear, with regard to the calculation you have made, that our reasoning is obviously about new jobs from 1 January 2017; this explains the differences in estimates between your calculations and the amounts taken into account. I try, on the facts, on the arguments, to provide a number of answers. The ambition is to create at least 1,000 additional jobs through this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u153	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the honesty of his comment on the parameters of the employment rate. Mr Ducrame has had difficulties in doing so, but you have just acknowledged that the encephalogram was flat in Belgium. But you have not answered a question that I would like to explore because the situation is worrying, given the objective you want to achieve by the end of the legislature. Europe says 2020, but your government policy statement talks about the end of the legislature. So you're claiming to be 73.2 per cent. You're, for now, much lower. So why is the employment rate growing in all other European countries? The average is 1.6 percentage points between November 2014 and May 2016. Why is Belgium - with Luxembourg, I agree - the only country to be negative? I'm asking you for an explanation, because it seems to me...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u154	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u155	We may know the external reasons, such as Brexit, but the latter case also concerns other countries. So I would like you to tell us why, as these progress, you are regressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u156	I'll answer you and you'll understand. This is directly related to a demographic situation. Not all European countries face it in the same way. Take Germany, for example, which has good economic performance, but which faces a real demographic concern. As I said yesterday, we want to be lucid and clairvoyant on the diagnosis. The positive aspects are extremely numerous: the revival of investment, the growth of exports, the highest number of business start-ups in ten years – 90,000 – and the increase in the number of people who choose to work as self-employed. But we are also concerned about a number of problems. Thus, we take the employment rate very seriously. This is why we are determined to step up business, investment and employment-friendly reforms in order to make progress in the coming months and years. The prospects are positive, since, as you know, the National Bank is announcing an additional 140,000 jobs. The Planning Office, for its part, is more optimistic in its forecasts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u157	Prime Minister, I am not intervening for the pleasure of interrupting you. Firstly, I would like to point out that while the target in terms of number of jobs in the 2020 strategy is clear, there are still 400 000 to be created by the end of the legislature. This is the European Union's strategy. We're far from it. The reforms to be undertaken are therefore urgent. Secondly, the challenge of starting jobs is important given the number of low-skilled young people who find themselves unemployed, without training and without internships. You made the commitment – and I thank you for that, since I asked you to – to remind you and, in any case, to say that the net salary would not be reduced. Of which act. However, I would like to point out that if this provision does not apply to those already in employment, it will have a terrible perverse effect. Indeed, these young people risk being put out so that the employer can hire another, with the key being a reduction in the gross minimum wage. The young person as such will not be adversely affected in terms of wages, but if he is replaced by another, we will see job rotation. I would therefore like to stress the need to analyse this point and to avoid creating more problems than can be solved. Having said that, I am in favour of making progress on the question of starter jobs, but provided that the net wage is maintained at its level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u158	Prime Minister, you still need an external cause for the failure of your employment policy. It was Brexit; now it is because too many young people are entering the labour market. Given the latest figures, I am a little surprised that at the beginning of your legislature, in 2014, according to official statistics, there were 1,320,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 24. Today, there are 1,308,000, i.e. fewer than at the time. We have to stop always looking for external causes. Your policy does not work; it is clear. We are below the European averages of growth in terms of employment rates. Belgium has nothing to boast about. The craziest part of your speech is that you're trying to make it look like everything's working well. However, people see - and the figures clearly show - that this is not the case. So, please, just ask yourself a little bit of a question. This competition on wages, this competition on flexibility, putting young people in competition with the old ones, it does not work! It is time to review your employment policy. In my opinion, this should be more based on stable jobs, especially those in the public service that you are detriculating today, and not on fictional jobs or increasingly temporary, flexible, etc. jobs that are unworthy for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u159	Mr Hedebouw, I respect your point of view. You do not believe in private initiative; you do not believe in innovation, research, openness to the world. You believe in retreat, protectionism, the denial of private initiatives. We have seen in many parts of the world where these choices have been made, which has given rise in terms of poverty, the decline of fundamental freedoms and human rights. We make another choice, full of freedom, tolerance, openness and we assume it! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the weeks and months to come, we will have the opportunity to continue this democratic debate, both through the budgetary debate, through the adoption by Parliament of the programme laws, also through all the reforms that will gradually drive this forum. I also believe and would like to confirm once again that the strategy for investment is particularly crucial. That's what we're trying to do. As part of the budget, we will have the opportunity to show in the next few days and weeks that we want to play an important role in this. We are convinced that it is crucial for mobility, for the digital agenda and for the future of the energy sector to make important choices today, with prospects for the coming years. We also want to fully accept our responsibilities in this regard. I also had the opportunity yesterday to show how security and justice are important points for us. Unfortunately, in Belgium, as throughout Europe, we were faced with a new, very difficult challenge: the defence of our fundamental freedoms and the protection of our fundamental rights. I also hope that it will be possible for the majority even occasionally to find an objective alliance with the opposition to achieve concrete results. Is that easy? No. Do we have to do it differently? Yeah, sure we should try to free up even more capacity for our security services. That is what we are trying to do again with this budget. You will also have the opportunity in the context of the analysis of the budget to see where we use the additional resources to achieve results. I would just like to conclude at this point, by telling you that we are, like you, measuring that the situation is not simple. It is classic on the part of the opposition to try to truncate the words of the interlocutor in order to offend. I tried yesterday and again today with my colleagues in the majority to draw a realistic picture of the economic and social situation. I put the emphasis yesterday, and I am still doing so today, on this fragility, which we are facing. I am thinking here of this poverty which effectively undermines the capacity for social cohesion. And perhaps the big difference between this majority and part of the opposition is that we believe that this issue of social cohesion will not be resolved with slogans or intentions expressed, but with decisions. These are reforms to thoroughly modernise our economy, our ability to finance long-term solidarity, health care, accessible to all, pensions, to ensure that today's decisions guarantee the payment of pensions tomorrow and the day after. I continue to say this, and I do not dislike some, the results are there: we will continue to work on difficult and important issues, such as corporate tax, the mobilization of savings to better support the digital agenda, to better support SMEs, to better support young businesses, taxation on shares as well, and including capital gains, on all these issues, Mr Calvo. Mr Calvo, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work on these proposals, which are important for the future of our society. We will carry out analyses and studies, not to put the dossiers in the refrigerator but to be able to make good and concrete decisions. Once again, we will always check whether the reforms are positive, economically efficient and fair. These characteristics go hand in hand, and we intend to monitor them closely. I repeat, we have an extremely clear and precise vision of the future. We will implement the reforms that are decided. We will work to ensure that the future is more optimistic, stronger, more prosperous. That is the commitment we make and act on!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u160	Prime Minister, I am very surprised!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u161	Just a moment, Mrs. Onkelinx. Apparently, Mr. Maingain wants the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u162	Mr President, I have been sitting in this House for almost 25 years. This is the first time that a Prime Minister considers that he must give the answer to Parliament before he has even heard the expression of all the Democrats. This is a deep contempt for parliamentary representation. I recall that, according to the Constitution, each elected representative of the entire nation in this House, regardless of his or her views. Mr President, it was up to you to ensure that all democratic expressions were treated equally in this House and not to caviar this debate because the Prime Minister had his watch modelled on television news broadcasts. That is the truth. The Prime Minister wanted to be in the JT!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u163	Mr. Maingain, I think you're absolutely right. A whole series of groups have not been able to express themselves. The Prime Minister didn't have the decency to let you talk. I'll give you my place. I will return to the floor once all the groups have been able to speak in this rostrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u164	I thank Mrs Onkelinx for this attention, but in these circumstances I consider that, since you have not enforced equal treatment, there is no need to speak in this place. We, too, can use the media to publicize the reality of your policy. Finally, Prime Minister, it is not because you once again go up to the gallery to make the same incantations and repeat, like a parrot, the same arguments that you have convinced us, no more than the citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u165	Mr President, I am addressing you. You are the President of all Members of this House and you should organise this sitting in such a way that all Members of this House can be addressed. I thank Mrs Onkelinx for her gesture, but I find it embarrassing that you are holding parliamentary meetings here with a TV record on a Sunday, at a time when there are television broadcasts, and that you are giving the floor to the Prime Minister at 7 p.m. I find yours embarrassing. You are not the President of all Members of this House; you seem to be the President of Parliament of the Government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u166	Mr President, despite my youth, I have been in this House for 10 years, and before that I was a parliamentary representative in the Chamber. So I've been in the game for a while. I've seen a lot of Presidents of the Chamber go and come from different signatures of blues, bitches, psychics, but I've never seen a President of the Chamber who's like you. Mrs. Onkelinx is right. It's always been the custom here. It has a greater democratic reflex than the President of the Chamber. It has always been the custom here for everyone to speak in a discussion. It is not normal for us to get a policy statement part 2 here in the middle of a debate, which happens to be in prime time, at the time of the news broadcasts. I insist that you maintain the traditional order according to the size of the groups before you turn it into a complete circus. People are talking about the self-declared democrats here. The Flemish interest would not be a democratic party, but I have not yet seen any democratic reflex or respect for the democratic rules that should apply in a Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u167	Mr President, I saw you at times: you were wrong when the Prime Minister came up, you said to yourself, "I have nothing more to say as president; if the executive shows up, he wants to go on the news; I as president will do nothing." It's not right, Mr. President, you know that very well. All colleagues agree on this. Normally we all intervene here, one by one, each group, and then the executive responds. It's always been like this. And here, all of a sudden, you saw him put himself there. What is the political situation in this case? It is that you are trying to grapple every second of communication because you feel that you are losing the battle of communication. You feel that people don't follow you in your reasoning and you think that if you go scratching a second on the right or left in the news, it's gonna work? You're completely wrong. I agree with Mr. Maingain today. That's outrageous, Mr. President. We will not intervene in this debate, but we will go outside this Parliament. People stay angry. If you think you can truncate a debate like that, it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u168	Mr President, as I am the last to speak, I would like to associate myself with all my colleagues who have been unable to speak because of a denial of democracy. Perhaps democracy, at times, is modelled on the grids of RTBF or RTL programs. Mr. Miller, please take care of your business and we're doing very well. Mr President, there is a big problem here and it is a shame. We also represent voters, the citizens. It is not just the majority that represents the people of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u169	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Maingain for joining us for the debates. We haven't seen you much, Mr. Maingain, all day. Mr. Hedebouw, we haven't seen you much either. But it is good that you are here to participate in this important debate. Mr. President, I've been in the house for a few years, too. I have seen Prime Minister Di Rupo go up to the gallery before, first respond to the groups, and so this is not new. I know you're burning all the wood. Everything becomes a scandal. If I am not mistaken, you have not put an end to the debate. May the debate continue, please. Let's get back to the bottom. I know you're agitating. It gives you, a number of you, the essence to pursue, but perhaps we should simply continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u170	I knew I could count on Mr. Ducrame to pull out an enormity. It is true that his majority has become accustomed to having his first party representative read the gazette while the Prime Minister is in the Chamber. But you see, Mr. Ducrame, this reproach, you can't do it to me because today I was at Mr. Desir's funeral. So maybe learn to think before you express yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u171	Mr President, I agree with the criticisms made by many Members of this House. I think your approach still had too many characteristics of your previous job. Today you are no longer the editor-in-chief, so you do not have to worry about ratings, but all the more so about the resilience of our democracy. Prime Minister, if you choose to hold a press conference, then you must also answer the question of the day. Together with Mr Verherstraeten, I note that you are not answering our question to clarify tax justice. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard a number of fellow Members, some of whom I resent, announce that they no longer wish to speak because of your actions. I believe that you can only do one thing, and that is to ask these groups, which also represent compatriots, to make their statements. You should commit yourself to answering the questions of those fellow Members. Last week we saw a huge spectacle. You have already missed meetings with Parliament and have not respected deadlines. In addition, you would not be praised for the fact that different countrymen do not make their voices heard in Parliament. I would therefore like to ask you specifically to engage with Mr Maingain and other Members of this House by staying here and listening to their statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u172	Mr President, very objectively, I regret this controversy somewhat. Why? I have also been a member of Parliament for a few years. I'm a little familiar with the Rules of the House. What happened was the simple application of this one but not only. It is also the practice of all my predecessors. The latter, systematically and without exception, after hearing the group leaders of the recognized parties, took the floor to give a first reply. I participated throughout the day in the debates by interacting with colleagues. I therefore regret the spectacle given. I did not want to participate in this kind of image of our Parliament. The democratic debate deserves better than what you have just lent yourself to!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, and for the sake of clarity, the debate continues. I assume that the Prime Minister will also remain in favour of the presentations by the groups which are not part of the Conference of Presidents and which will soon be discussed in accordance with the agreed modalities. For the rest, history is what it is; I know it too. Secondly, this is indeed the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u174	Mr President, as has been the case since I was Prime Minister, it goes without saying that I will remain until the end of the debate, unlike my predecessors who, for their part, decided at some point to leave when the government statement or the budget was being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u175	Mr President, I heard what the Prime Minister said. Can he explain to me why he did it differently in 2014 and 2015? Why did he show respect for the small groups? Why did he answer the questions afterwards? I have the impression that the government's application of normal democratic rules is deteriorating very quickly. In 2014 the Rules of Procedure were apparently different. Also in 2015, the Rules of Procedure were apparently different. And in 2016, thanks to you, Mr President, we seem to have a new, non-existent regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u176	Mr Vuye, I don't think so. For the record, I also expect the Prime Minister to reply after the statements by yourself, Mrs Pas and others. We can therefore, quite frankly, continue the debate. The Government's answer implies that there is now a right of reply which Mrs Onkelinx wanted to use, but she has renounced. Are there any members who wish to replicate? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u177	She'll do it afterwards. That's no problem at all. Does anyone ask for the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u178	Mr President, I am not going to reply to the Prime Minister to let other parliamentarians speak. Nevertheless, I would still like you, Mr President, not to conclude that we no longer have the right to reply. Because it would go beyond the limits!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u179	You will be entitled to a reply after the other interventions, Ms. Fonck. That does not alter the fact that a reply can now be given by whomever asks. Does anyone ask for the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u180	Mr President, I am obviously ready, I was already ready, for a reply. But as I said, I will give priority to groups that have not intervened. However, they are leaving the Chamber one after the other. In these circumstances, I will of course reply, but I really regret this candid move in parliamentary democracy. Prime Minister, in addition to the event that we have commented on a great deal, I would like to say that I have found your answer very brief. You didn't clarify anything. You've made incantations. You repeated great sentences with great words, in which we could not find a precise answer to our questions. This shows that what you were most interested in was making a speech like a party convention while the cameras were there for the 7 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. television newspapers. I find this quite a pity. I would like to return to the question raised by Mr Dewael, who surprised me. As I understand it, Mr Dewael, you have told us that you find it inconceivable that a region, under a mixed treaty, could prevent the federal state from signing the treaty, including the CETA treaty. You urged the Prime Minister to take his steps to sign it despite the opposition of the Walloon Region and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Prime Minister, since you did not reply to Mr Dewael, I would like to ask you: what about Mr Dewael's question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u181	Legally and constitutionally, it does not appear to me that the federal government can sign without the agreement of the Regions. We are facing a serious, very exceptional situation where an entity of the country, given our institutional reality, is blocking an agreement, a major agreement for the relationship between the European Union and Canada. The EU-Canada Summit is in danger. For the past few hours and days, I have received a great deal of concern about Belgium because of this choice, from colleagues from European countries, from Canadian colleagues as well of course, from colleagues from all political families. Apart from the Walloon government, almost all the countries of Europe have already agreed to allow the signature. I regret this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u182	Go say "Everyone wants us to sign this treaty" to farmers, go tell that to SMEs, go tell that to the associations that are mobilizing! On the contrary, as it stands, the treaty is not acceptable. You are right to reply to Mr Dewael, I stress, that under the terms of the Cooperation Agreement on Mixed Treaties, and under the terms of Article 163 of the Constitution, it will not be possible for you to sign it without the agreement of the Regions. That was a useful clarification, given our colleague's question. You have started your intervention in a strange way and you are systematically doing so. This morning, on Sundays too, every time you face a camera, you start your speech by saying "We didn't do it" and then you quote the horrors you accomplished in 2016, namely index jump, consumption taxes, etc. As if not repeating twice the same errors excused the measures you are presenting to us! I find it strange. As my colleague has said excellently, these measures are still applicable: VAT on electricity is still at 21%. Our citizens always pay taxes on consumption. Index jump is a measure that does not repair in time. So starting each time in this way is a bit surprising. You have gone back to the structural reforms and you have simply summarized what you have said, without any form of precision. The change in the law of 96, as you propose, by corsing inter-branch bargaining, will pose major problems in our model of social consultation, not only at the federal level, but also in each of the companies, and not only at the sectoral level. What is shocking, as has been said throughout the day, and I repeat, is that you have nothing specific about the taxation of capital gains on shareholders, and that you are going to prevent wage increases on the part of employees, which is shameful. As with the 45-hour bill, you did a micmac earlier between what is mandatory under the bill and what will be in the sectoral negotiating menu. I say and say again that, as far as the whole mandatory part is concerned, you will weaken the position of the worker vis-à-vis his employer. It will be malleable 45 hours a week, without payment of overtime and you will make it more complicated compensatory rest for those who make a lot of overtime. In this sense, you obviously did not convince us for a second on the fact that this was a balanced law between workers and employers. However, you were willing to acknowledge that our country was not doing so well and that alongside some of the indicators that I myself declared positive, you had a whole series of negatives. Whether it is debt, growth, inflation, the employment rate, our country is not doing well, and I am still waiting for the way in which you want to take on board this difficult situation in which you have plunged our country. You have also not responded to the major budgetary difficulties you face year after year. You make great projections and revise the Stability Pact every year, because you do not achieve your objectives. But where I'm particularly surprised, it's about health care. I recall that out of a budget of $3 billion, of which $1.5 billion is for health care, you take $900 million on health care. You said and repeated that it wouldn't hurt. We told you and told you that you were not telling the truth. The more the hours of this day pass, the more obvious it becomes. Earlier, the General Council refused your draft budget; the care providers and mutualities refused it. Ma'am, expect some tough reactions. Above all, however, the government's position was put before the interlocutors. We were able to see things a little closer. You tried to mask the whole thing by implying that the savings would be on antibiotics. I won't come back. We know you're going to double the price of antibiotics to the detriment of patients; it's not a public health policy, it's an increase in the bill at the pharmacy. Since then, we have learned that you have done many other things. We talked about hospitals and I told you that it was about closing 4,000 licensed beds, emergency services, neonatal services and other services. It will be a massacre game during 2017! And that's not all. You have declined, by setting out the government's position, a series of other savings. An example? You will no longer pay back certain medicines, such as nasal corticosteroids. Why? Not for a public health issue. These necessary medicines will no longer be reimbursed. You're taking $7 million from medical homes. You'll tell me why you're punishing medical homes. Is it because we usually take care of the most vulnerable people? You're talking about fighting poverty. Do my colleagues know that, in the memorandum of government, there is the decision to index the maximum amount to be billed? What does that mean? The maximum amount to charge is this system, which allows patients to be reimbursed for user tickets beyond a certain threshold. By indexing the MAF, which has not been done in recent years, you generally reduce repayments to the detriment of the most fragile, especially the chronically ill and those living in poverty and fragility. Prime Minister, in your reply, you have started again a verse on the fight against poverty, but a whole series of measures you have taken, especially in health care, will directly lead the poorest of us to have additional life difficulties. On this day of fighting poverty, I find it scandalous! I will conclude by telling you that, earlier, you cited statements that I had actually made while I was Minister of Health. I therefore wanted to take up some of your statements. On May 23, 2014, Charles Michel said: "Don't touch the index, the priority is the opposite!" Meanwhile, the Michel government made an index jump. On February 5, 2012, Charles Michel said: "Tossing with VAT? But that would be a very unfair measure!" Meanwhile, the Michel government has increased the VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%. On July 1, 2013, Olivier Chastel said: "Increase diesel excise duties? But finally, it's penalising the workers!" Meanwhile, the Michel government has increased diesel taxes. Finally, on October 5, 2014, Daniel Bacquelaine said: "It is not proposed to receive the legal pension age!" In the meantime, the Michel government has voted to reduce the pension age to 67 years and will make the situation of thousands of workers worse in this budget. You know the proverb: "The words fly away, the writings stay," but with you, the words fly away, the writings fade, run away, evaporate. Anyway, you say, "Don't believe me, I'll do the opposite of what I'm telling you." It's neither responsible nor credible. Let us believe, Prime Minister, that we, together with all my colleagues, will be eager to repeat to the envious that, when you make a promise, the first thing you strive to do is exactly the opposite. In this sense, you are not credible!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u183	Prime Minister, a brief reply, without wishing to repeat the debate we have had today. I have heard many promises, few deadlines, few concrete ones. You have said that you will take some measures if the opposition has to do so. Let me give you an example, Prime Minister. You said that we should work together on the safety of our country. Following the attacks in Paris, you came here to the House to announce that you would extend the arrest period to 72 hours. The experts in the Anti-Terrorism Commission have given their views on this. Everyone agrees, Prime Minister, that 48 hours is needed. No one's asking for 72 hours. That conclusion was made a year ago. What am I establishing today? No text has yet been tabled today to extend that detention period. Then what are you waiting for? If you say you want to take measures to ensure safety, what are you waiting for? Secondly, as far as the value added tax is concerned, I have heard different explanations from the four different parties. I fear that this government will not respond to this call for justice. The sp.a wants to compete for this added value tax, but if I have heard the four government parties today, I fear so. Thirdly, Prime Minister, you have always said that you would not touch patients. Your words were not yet cold or the RIZIV Council did not approve the 2017 budget. The medical syndicate has withdrawn. The patients do not know what rate they will pay for a consultation tomorrow. You wouldn't hit the patients, but all I can see is that the patients are in uncertainty today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u184	Mr President, first a question on services. Has the document arrived for Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u185	Not with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u186	Don't you think it's a pity that the document for Europe didn't make it to the 19:00 news? Don't you regret that, Mrs. Wilmès? In addition to the 19:00 news, I expected the deadline for Europe with a thick red or blue marker to be on your agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u187	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u188	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u189	Not yet, huh?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u190	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u191	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u192	Mañana, mañana, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u193	As agreed, we will receive the documents as soon as they are transmitted to the European Commission, Madam.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u194	Mr Prime Minister, perhaps you would be better advised to submit this in time for next year and perhaps to correct some of the issues, because what we have just seen was not a good idea. I am sorry that we have to end this way. Look at the banks. That is everyone's responsibility, but you can play a role in it. Normally, a State of the Union should be a moment to set Parliament on fire and inspire it. I note that even some Members of your majority find it a little embarrassing and opt for something else. Why am I making a point of this? If it were only a misapprehension of the opposition, I would still be able to live with it, but the same disapprehension was seen in Mr De Roover's speech this morning about young people; the same disapprehension was felt throughout the day because of the majority, who is only talking about the past and far too little about the future. That is what we read in the budget, which spends the effort on ordinary people, on women with a child's wish, on young job seekers and on people who are sick. If it is only a misapprehension of Parliament, then I could still live with it. Of course, as an opposition, we are critical, but not without mentioning that a number of parameters are evolving positively. In the meantime, we know the list. For example, we can say just fine when it comes to the number of start-ups and the number of bankruptcies. But I think you're moving too fast over a number of parameters that aren't right. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u195	Is it about Europe's documents? Have they arrived? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u196	I thought it was about this, or about the added value tax or corporate tax. I thought you were still discussing whether or not you were going to answer. The report we are making is not about objectives that we have invented. Mr Nollet referred to it. The level of effectiveness was your own goal. As far as job creation is concerned, I mentioned it very briefly this morning, but the Planning Bureau predicted almost as many jobs before your measures as the number with which you are knocking today. Even as far as your own budget objectives are concerned, was it not your ambition to have a well of four billion today? I don't think so. The report we are making is not about what we are making up, but about your own objectives; hence our encouragement to step up our efforts in this area. Fourthly, Mr Verherstraeten, do you know the answer: is it linked or not linked? Is it linked?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u198	What does the clutch mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u199	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u200	I found that the Prime Minister did not really want to answer that question. It will be studied together, but it is not certain whether it will be decided together. I encourage you, because, again, we both need it. We need the fair contribution of the greatest assets and we need the fair corporate tax. I would have liked the government to do so today, but the important question remains unanswered for the time being. I'll help you, Prime Minister. Our group will help you. We're gonna increase the pressure. From now on, a clock will be ticking for colleague Verherstraeten. I announced it this morning, and I'm sticking to it. If you, Mr Verherstraeten, and CD&V do not submit the proposal on added value tax before the end of the month, our group will do so. Clock's ticking. The call for justice will only be louder. I will give you another chance to do the operation justice itself, Mr Verherstraeten. Ladies and gentlemen, let us already mention in our agenda: if the proposal is not before the end of October, then we will submit the CD&V proposal here in Parliament in its entirety, however imperfect it may be. Then we will be setting it up every week in the Finance Committee. Then we will be quoting it every week in plenary because that call for justice, Mr Verherstraeten, has to be met, actually yesterday, preferably today, hopefully tomorrow, but not the day after tomorrow or the next legislature. Finally, we would also like to help you with the investment pact. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u201	Minister Van Overtveldt does not want to share the texts. If you share them, then the clock will be ticking in that area too, because those two things absolutely must be done. Mr Verherstraeten, note it in your agenda, and you too, Mr Michel: end of October. Feel free to regard it as an ultimatum of our group and of a social majority, and indeed of a political majority in Parliament for a fair contribution of the greatest capabilities. The last service is the investment pact. I congratulated you on that. It's one of the bright spots after the good words. Two days after 22 March, the call for the Investment Pact is the light of day with regard to the statements made by our Prime Minister last year. But it must not be an investment pact for 2030, ladies and gentlemen. It should be an investment pact from 2017. Unfortunately, I do not see any sign of the need for investment in the budget. Since we will not settle that debate today, Prime Minister, I have a concrete proposal. I am also looking at you, Mr President. You said that you want to work with Parliament for the investment pact. I would therefore like to make a specific proposal. Let us in Parliament, because the Pact will transcend the legislature, because it must transcend the limits of majority and opposition, set up a steering committee with the group leaders of the recognised groups to write to it together. That is at the end of a not so nice day my hand extended to you, to really do it together, not only to say that we do it together, but to actually write that together. That is a concrete proposal, Prime Minister. If you want to commit yourself to that, then there are not only unanswered questions today, because unfortunately there are too many.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u202	Mr President, I would like to continue my exchange with the Prime Minister on the employment rate. Prime Minister, your answer is to say that the number of young people is increasing. If this were to be the explanation, the rate of inactivity among young people would be increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u203	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u204	In order to allow you to react, I sent you the graphs on the inactivity rate of young people. The encephalogram is flat. So your explanation doesn't stand the way. If your argument to explain why Belgium, unlike the other countries, saw its employment rate decline, was correct, it could have been seen in the graphs relating to the age group concerned. So we find ourselves here in the face of a lack of explanation. The facts are here. Belgium – with Luxembourg, I agree – is the only country that is falling at the level of employment as all the other countries move forward. And no explanation is given to justify this situation. But the Prime Minister who listens to us carefully, and I thank him for that, will answer us in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u205	Mr President, my speech is a continuation of what Mr Nollet has just said. The Prime Minister referred to the demographic element He explained that Belgium had a larger population than other countries. He cited the case of Germany. What are your sources, Prime Minister? Are you able to justify this argument and provide us with a comparative analysis of demographic trends in the euro area countries which could explain that Belgium is one of the few countries to experience a decline in its employment rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u206	Mr. Chair, I will wait for the Prime Minister's response before I continue my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u207	Actually, Mr. Nollet, things don't work that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u208	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u209	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will have one comment and then two important conclusions to make in this reply. First of all, I regret that parliamentarians have been completely set aside from this debate. You replied that it was a strict application of the Rules of Procedure. But it is obviously not written in the Rules that at 7:00 p.m., live, you monopolized the rostrum. I admit it's just a matter of respect. For some, respect may be outdated, but in any case for me, it is a fundamental value.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u210	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u211	Now I come to my reply. We are prepared to work on issues that are crucial if there are positive developments. I want to quote three files. The first is to have a new social pact with a reform of work, a modernisation of work, but provided that it is with flexibility which is not imposed unilaterally and above all which is associated with concrete questions and advances such as training, balance with family life and the whole issue of thematic holidays, the question of overtime linked to these overtime and especially for small and medium-sized wages, floating hours and telework to take only some concrete steps that I think are essential to have a balance. Modernising work is necessary but must take into account the reality of employers and workers. There's text exchanges. If I'm interrupting, you have to tell me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u212	Not at all, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u213	If not! A new social pact will be indispensable. Beyond the reform of labour modernisation, there is also the question of the IPA. Do you still occupy the government bench? Or do you become a parliamentarian again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u214	Go on, Mrs. Fonck!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u215	I'm not staying here for half an hour. I'm gonna stay here for three minutes and break everything! For me, respect is not out of date, but it doesn't matter! I said that it is essential to move forward on a new IPA. Whatever you think of the unions, when some people get bogged down in primary anti-unionism... they're not here anymore, but whatever. Completing a new IPA will be important for both employers and workers. A second task on which we are ready to move if there are positive developments is security and the fight against terrorism. But there is a case that has not been discussed and on which no progress has been made, even if it is true that it is not linked to the budget: this is the revision of article 12 of the Constitution on the deprivation of liberty without the intervention of the investigating judge. Beyond that, regarding security and the fight against terrorism, we see overbooked teams on their knees: Justice, police, intelligence, defence. First of all, we must be able to recover the savings achieved in 2015 and sustain progress. Laws are one thing, but the operational, for human resources, the exchange of information or the new technologies that will enable us to be more effective in the fight against terrorism, is an issue on which progress is still expected. The third major project, which I pointed out to be the one that failed in this government's decision, despite the week of crisis that it brought about, is that of the more just progress in taxation, with an improvement of ISOC for small and medium-sized enterprises, in the mobilization of savings to the real economy, in the area of public investment plans, which you sold in September to the tune of several billions and for which there are only 100 million left in 2017. Mobility, energy, digital and innovation, and health are for us the four axes. We are ready to move forward; we have very concrete proposals in this regard. Finally, the last point I want to address concerns health. I'll fight for the sick, I'll fight for the health care professionals. I will fight again and again to show the Minister of Health, even if she is no longer there, that she would have done better to fight after her great declarations, her great commitments that there would be no savings after the 2 billion savings she has already made over the last two years. I will fight, I will come with all the possible and imaginable arguments, all the health figures. I will also fight to show you how much the decisions that are supposedly anodized and painless will have a major impact on the sector, on the patient first, in direct and indirect ways, on hospitals and on health professionals, including at home. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, these appointments will come very soon and I hope that all our parliamentary debates will bring you elements of response, ideas – even if some want to spend more time than attending parliamentary work – that these proposals discussed today will encourage us to review certain aspects of your reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u216	Mr President, we are in a particular situation. It must be recognized that parliamentary benches, especially those of the majority, are emptying at an incredible speed. We still do not have the budget tables promised by the government. Above all, however, the parliament was deserted by the small parties because of the lack of respect for parliamentary democracy. In these circumstances, it is not appropriate to continue this debate with a second round. That would be a reason for the Prime Minister when he showed his disrespect for the small parties, and it would also be a debate without a sufficient listening of the majority. I therefore propose that we finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u217	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u218	You know, Mr. Ducrame, those who know me know that at this level, I could show you! I have some experience. Look at this parliament. It no longer looks like anything: there are no more VLDs, the small parties have deserted. The image of parliament is a real problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u219	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u220	Mr. Ducrame, you would have done better to keep arguments when you were in this gallery. That would have been more interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u221	I may repeat myself, but obviously this is not a problem. It was agreed that a table would be presented for discussion. You got it from the start. The draft budgetary plan (DBP) is not, a priori, an element that is needed for the discussions. Why? From the outset, the work was organized as follows. The state of the union was to be made, then the debates, the vote of confidence, and only five or six days later, the DBP was to be handed over to Europe, at the same time as to Parliament. That was the deal. We're sticking to it. In the following minutes, we will send this plan to the European Commission. It's really a matter of minutes, Mr. Nollet. I'll let you know we're ready. At the same time, we will send it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u222	Mr President, Mr Borsus' commitment is important. He represents the government in the Conference of Presidents. This commitment was clear: we would receive these documents so that we could carry out the work in connection with the budget and the declaration. Why? At first, the calendar was uncertain. We were not sure whether we had the statement and the figures at the same time, since it was last Tuesday. In this calendar, indeed, I can join you. However, today the calendar is in a lag. Admit it. It is now that the figures have to arrive at the European Commission. It may have extensible working hours; perhaps it is already working under night work. Your attitude is a little cavalier. You let us note that at 8:30 p.m., the commitment made to give them to us today, the day the plan is due, is not yet fulfilled. This shows that there are some problems beyond the Brussels Region. We'll see when we're in possession of the documents. Mr Borsus has made a commitment that we will receive them when they are forwarded to the European Commission. This moment actually falls today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u223	Mr President, the end of Mr Nollet's remarks is correct. We are always committed, without any variation, to forwarding the documents at the same time to Parliament and to Europe. The Minister of Budget has just confirmed this. There was no shadow of a variation. So this is going to happen in a few minutes, as we had committed ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u224	Secondly, Mrs Onkelinx's proposal. For the sake of clarity, we must, in any case, take a technical break. We need to suspend the meeting for 15 minutes to reset the system. If, of course, the whole Chamber accepts Mrs Onkelinx's proposal, I can only say that it is what it is. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u225	Mr President, I believe that this is indeed the most wise decision. All in all, we have had a rich debate today. I think there are a number of points that need to be improved, and that applies to all of us, as well as to the government. I invite you to think about this together in the Conference of Presidents, in order to manage an important meeting such as this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u226	Good. And you agree with Mrs Onkelinx's proposal? [[Assent]] I'm going over the other groups. Mrs Kitir also agreed with the proposal and Mrs Gabriels on behalf of the Open Vld. Mr Ducrame, do you support Mrs Onkelinx's proposal? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u227	Just so we're clear, it's the Chamber that decides on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u228	Mr President, no, I do not support Mrs Onkelinx's proposal. She wants to stop the debate. A second round was planned, for which parliamentarians had registered. Mrs. Onkelinx, suddenly, asks us to stop. It is not up to her to decide the fate of the colleagues who have decided to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u229	Mr President, what exactly is the proposal? Is it supposed to stop today and continue tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u230	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u231	Or just stop?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip133x.u232	Mrs Capoen, the proposal was simply to stop, but I understand that a number of Members still want to speak. So we shall now take a technical break. It's now 20:33. Let's start again at 20:50. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Monday 17 October 2016 at 8.50 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Monday, 17 October 2016 at 8.50 p.m.
