ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u1	Minister, I welcome you to this afternoon's question and answer. Question No 8518 by Mr Terwingen is transformed into a written question. Mrs Caprasse kindly agreed to wait for Mr Demeyer, which I thank her for. Mr Gilkinet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u2	Minister, in France, victims of terrorist acts can make use of the Guarantee Fund for Victims of Acts of Terrorism and Other Offences, which has existed since 1986, which is financed by a levy on the insurance contract and provides for specific compensation according to the severity of the damage incurred. In Belgium, such a system does not exist, even if the terrorist risk is now taken into account by many insurance policies and it is possible for victims to appeal to the Fund for Victims of Intentional Violence, set up within the FPS Justice. This poses difficulties for those who are victims of terrorist acts abroad. Minister, do you think that the cover of terrorist acts is sufficient in Belgium? Can a Belgian victim of a terrorist act committed abroad appeal to the Victims of Intentional Violence Fund? Under what conditions? As far as the attacks in Tunisia were concerned, was this fund used by the Belgian citizens concerned? If so, what is the status of their case? What amount of compensation was awarded? As far as the attacks in Paris were concerned, was this fund used by Belgian citizens? If so, what is the status of their case? What amount of compensation was awarded? Have other acts of terrorism committed abroad received such requests recently? Which ones? On the basis of recent experience, is a project to reform and expand the Fund for Victims of Intentional Violence under consideration in order to better cover acts of terrorism committed abroad against Belgian citizens, possibly on the French model?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u3	Mr Gilkinet, compensation for damage resulting from terrorism is organised by the Act of 1 April 2007 on insurance against damage caused by terrorism. Coverage of the damage caused by terrorism is guaranteed up to an aggregate amount of 1 billion euros indexed. Occupational, motor vehicle, fire, simple risk, hospitalization and life insurance must now cover the risk of terrorism. Like a number of EU countries, it was decided to create a specific structure to increase the insurance and reinsurance capacity of terrorist risk while taking into account its characteristics. The insurance sector has formed the ASBL Terrorism Reinsurance and Insurance Pool (TRIP) for this purpose. This ASBL and the Belgian State jointly cover events in a calendar year up to EUR 1 billion for commitments entered into by participants in the insurance sector. The Belgian State is required to intervene only when the share of the amount of the LSA is exhausted. In summary, it can be said that there is good insurance coverage of the risk of terrorism in Belgium. A Belgian victim of a terrorist act abroad cannot currently appeal against the funds of victims of intentional violence. The latter may grant aid only on the following conditions: the act of violence was committed in Belgium (principle of territoriality); compensation for damage cannot be provided in an effective and sufficient manner by the perpetrator or civilly liable by a social security scheme or by private insurance or in any other way (principle of subsidiarity). These principles are inspired by the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes signed in Strasbourg on 24 November 1983 by 33 Member States. At European Union level, Council Directive 2004/80 of 29 April 2004 on compensation for victims of crime provides for the obligation for Member States to organise a scheme to assist victims of violent intentional crime committed in the territory and for a system to facilitate access to compensation for victims in cross-border situations, including the possibility of applying in the State of residence, the designation of central contact points in the Member States, etc. Belgian victims of acts of violence committed in Europe can therefore count on assistance. Outside the European Union, the organisation of a victim support mechanism is left to the discretion of each State. With regard to the attacks in Paris and Tunisia, no recourse was made to the Victims' Fund. Under the European instruments referred to above, it is for France to intervene for acts that have been perpetrated on its territory. I am not aware of any other terrorist acts that have resulted in an appeal to the Victims Fund. Every reform and expansion of the Victims Fund should be the subject of wide-ranging consultation within the government with the competent ministerial departments, specialised agencies and relevant economic sectors such as insurance and tourism. Diplomatic discussions ensue on the classification of a terrorist act taking place abroad. Are the Belgian authorities responsible for covering all acts of violence committed abroad in which Belgians are involved? How far do they have to go in this area? Is such comprehensive risk coverage not likely to undermine the current system of the Victims Fund, which is working well? The question of the financing of such an expanded system will also need to be examined in detail, as the Court of Auditors has already indicated in response to the bill introduced a few months ago in the Committee on Justice. The Victims Fund currently has only EUR 12 million to guarantee financial assistance to victims of violence committed in our territory. I would like to make it clear that these technical reflections do not detract from my sense of concern and empathy for the unbearable suffering that victims of terrorist acts have to endure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u4	Minister, I thank you for this rather comprehensive state of affairs. At the end of this report, I confirm a difficulty in the current framework of the various laws and aid mechanisms: Belgian victims of terrorist acts abroad are not covered outside Europe. I am thinking in particular of the Belgian citizens who were victims of the Tunisian attacks. I hope this wave of terrorism will stop. Nevertheless, we should collectively think about coverage for these people. It seems to me that a solution should be found in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u5	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday, 20 January 2016, Belgium passed its Universal Periodic Review (UPR) before the UN Human Rights Council. Among the points of attention was the establishment of a National Institute for Human Rights, a commitment that had been made by Belgium during the previous UPR in 2011. The creation of such a structure is a necessity. NGOs have been advocating this since the mid-1980s. Such an institution would create a general function of advising the authority, better monitoring of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, better consultation between stakeholders in the field of human rights, and the collection of informational data and statistics. Only through a broad mandate given to the National Human Rights Institute would this better protection of the rights of all the inhabitants of the country be achieved. The previous government had made a major step forward on this complex issue by successfully inter-federalizing the Centre for Equal Opportunities. This Government has resumed this objective, with the government agreement stating that "in accordance with our international commitments, a national human rights mechanism will be established". Minister, what is the current status of this work? What are the parties involved in the discussions on the establishment of this institute? What were the results you were able to present at the UPR on Wednesday, January 20? What is your vision of the link between the current Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the Federal Centre for Migration Myria and the Institute for Gender Equality? As an accessory, can you tell us what is the status of the discussions on the possible inter-federalization of the latter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u6	Mr President, Minister, on 20 January, no less than 40 countries supported the recommendation calling on Belgium to set up a National Institute for Human Rights (INDH). The founding principles relate to the competences and powers, the composition of the INDH with guarantees of independence and pluralism, its operating procedures, as well as complementary principles concerning the status of commissions with quasi-judicial powers. I recall that in your government agreement it is stipulated that: "On the multilateral level, the government wants the normative framework to develop, consolidate and eventually become binding (...) with priority attention as points of focus, including the fight against all forms of discrimination." I believe that it is desirable for our country to embark on the creation of this body by scrupulously respecting the Paris principles in order to make it an effective legal instrument that is not an "empty shell". As a result, Minister, can you let me know the federal government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the universal periodic review of 20 January, we have received the recommendation to proceed as quickly as possible with the establishment of an independent national human rights mechanism. This recommendation is fully consistent with the federal government agreement. So we accepted it. I have already explained this in the Committee on Justice, in particular on 8 July. Work is progressing on an ongoing basis. The case is managed by my office as well as by the Equal Opportunities Office, with the support of the Human Rights Department of the FPS Justice. The proposed approach has been the subject of intensive consultations with about 10 federal and inter-federal organizations with human rights mandates, such as the Privacy Commission, P and R Committees, the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the Institute for Gender Equality, etc. It was also discussed by a series of NGOs active in the field of human rights such as Amnesty International, the League for Human Rights, Liga voor Mensenrechten, the Defense of Children, etc. Each time, the reactions were positive. We then focused on a number of practical aspects, including the need for staff capacity to start the necessary new structure. This issue, which I discussed at the end of 2015, with my colleague Elke Sleurs, will be discussed at future federal and inter-federal inter-cabinet working groups with a view to a cooperation agreement. Such an agreement requires approval procedures before the various parliaments. I repeat that the objective is to be able to declare the human rights mechanism operational by the end of the legislature. With regard to your question on relations with the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the Federal Centre for Migration Myria and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, I can assure you that their independence and functioning will not be compromised. The human rights mechanism will be complementary and co-ordinator. Avoid duplication, recognize existing expertise, and seek efficiency in operating costs. The possible inter-federalization of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which you mentioned, is not a prerequisite for the establishment of a national human rights mechanism. However, in view of the competence of Secretary of State Elke Sleurs with regard to the Institute, I invite you to ask him also.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u8	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u9	Minister, we will wait until the end of the legislature. I hope that this measure will take shape as soon as possible, because it is our brand image.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I already questioned you in December on this issue, in particular with regard to the computerisation of criminal records and the elimination of delays. This is a follow-up question that looks at the current state of affairs. How many files are left behind? Are the 17 people you mentioned in December still working? How do you evaluate the temporary additional capacity of staff in the criminal record? How much longer will they be at work? With regard to computerisation, what is the current legal and technical timing for the planned initiatives? What possible intermediate solutions can be offered to the municipalities during the transitional period, with a view to the development of a Central Criminal Register? With regard to the greeds of the municipalities, you announced in December that you would consult again. Will direct access to the Central Criminal Register be provided for the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, with a view to issuing honorary signs? If no, why not? The municipalities also state that it should be possible for citizens to address their application directly to the Central Criminal Register, for example when they need that certificate for their employer. The citizen can register as a unique known user with his electronic identity card. In this way an intermediate step is eliminated. This too is therefore an administrative simplification. Is this piste under investigation? What possibilities are there? The municipalities also see a problem with respect to the different models. It is not always clear when which model is necessary. They need clearer rules. As an example, they point out that it is not clear which model should be provided for a football steward. The practice would not always be uniform and would depend on the interpretation of the official. Could you perhaps provide for an interpretative letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, we cannot talk about a delay. Indeed, no legal provision sets out the time limit for registering the data in the Central Criminal Register. It goes without saying that the Central Criminal Register aims to provide the information without delay in any consultation. To this end, the service has for several years used a priority order for recording the data. The most severe convictions are recorded as a priority. As I pointed out in the past, no extract from the criminal record will be delivered until all convictions have been recorded in the file. Since 1 January 2015, the Central Criminal Register has been automatically fed by the police court. This means that a large part of the sentences pronounced by the police courts are immediately registered with the Registrys in the Central Criminal Register. The automatic influx allows the Central Criminal Register service to deal with the older files for which an extract has never been requested. The 17 persons temporarily appointed from September to December last year have dealt with more than 250 000 files. The employment of those persons ended on 31 December. Of the 250 000 files, 140 000 were computerized, which means that the extract is immediately available in the event of an application. The operation also had a positive impact on the increase in the number of computerised files of the Central Criminal Register: from 74 % in September to 77 % at the end of December. Of the remaining 23 %, a part will be recorded immediately through an IT operation. For the rest, I can inform you that the staff of the Central Criminal Register are now immediately registering any new incoming conviction and, in the second instance, progressively eliminating the delay in the registration of convictions in order to increase the immediate response rate to the consultations of the Central Criminal Register. As you can see, we are therefore on the right track to arrive at a situation in which each application for an extract can be answered simultaneously. The solution chosen so far is to connect the municipalities to the Central Criminal Register in order to allow them to obtain an extract from the Central Criminal Register. The connection will take place in two phases. The first phase will allow the municipalities not to have to register convictions in their municipal file, except for the files that are not yet fully computerized in the Central Criminal Register, as I said earlier. The second phase concerns the connection of the municipalities to the Central Criminal Register, where the municipalities receive all the extracts from the criminal record. At this stage, the municipalities themselves will no longer manage convictions. The access of the FPS Work, Labour and Social Consultation will be investigated by my department. The question relates mainly to the type of extract to be delivered to this department. Each extract must be based on a specific regulation which defines its content. The issue of honour signs often concerns the absence of regulation in this area. The slope on direct access to the Central Criminal Register for citizens is being studied by my department with a view to the mentioned administrative simplification. Finally, as regards the complexity of the regulation of regulated activities and their impact on the content of the extract, I can inform you that in 2013 the Central Criminal Register published a list of regulated activities known by the service for the benefit of the municipalities, by means of a circular, in order to inform them of the rules to be applied when drawing up the different specific types of extracts for the respective regulated activities. In the future, the Central Criminal Register will itself manage and automatically apply these rules when delivering, either through the municipalities or directly to the citizen, the information from the Central Criminal Register on the extract intended for the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u12	Mr Minister, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 14 January 2016, with regard to the new regulation of the choice of name, destroys the partial provision which, in the event of disagreement or in the absence of a choice, prevails over the choice of the father. At the same time, it says that a new regime should be introduced by 31 December 2016. In the meantime, the current rules remain in place. During the previous long discussion, we expressed the fear that, when applying the principle of equality to change naming legislation, the provision that, in the event of disagreement, the choice of the father's name might not pass the test of non-discrimination. We were right about that. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court, a distinction is made between, on the one hand, disagreement and, on the other hand, absence of choice for the provisions to which legal effects may be given. However, both disagreement and lack of choice are on the same lines in the circular following the law. That is why I have some questions about the possible breakdown of those elements when parents report. In principle, the letter of conversion stipulates that there must be an agreement from the parents. They always have to make a choice and justify it. Either both parents are present and the official establishes that either one of them or a representative is present. A written statement must be submitted, among other things. In principle, this is an obligation. The question is whether the subsidiary scheme, if there is no agreement, is in one way or another addressed. Can you tell me in how many cases a joint declaration of name choice was submitted? Have the name choices always happened when the document was submitted? Is there an effective joint statement from both parents when only one of the parents returns the birth? According to the case law, that appears to be the case, but I do not know if it always happens. Is there a distinction between absence of choice and disagreement as to the choice of name? If so, how many times was one phenomenon identified? Does the official automatically establish that there is no choice if a joint declaration is not submitted? What happens in that case? In what way does the civil servant determine the dispute?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u13	The implementation of the double naming law is well known. That didn't happen without a hit or a hit. We have always believed that there were other priorities for justice at that time and still today. It was also predictable that the legislation would cause problems, as is now apparent from practice. In the meantime, there is also a judgment of the Constitutional Court which we have taken note of. We will now have to take action by the end of December 2016 to respond to the Court's observations. It is therefore of course important to have as many figures as possible in order to be able to draw up proper legislation in this area. That is why my question is also specifically looking at a number of figures. How many times has the father's name been chosen and how many times has the mother's name been chosen since the law came into force? How often was the father's name chosen because of a discussion between the couple? How is it established that the name of the father is granted for that reason? How often was a double name chosen? In what order? After all, there are many possibilities. Does the letter of 30 May 2014 also cause problems other than those raised by the Constitutional Court? Will you come to Parliament with a draft and when do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u14	Minister, I will not hide my satisfaction with the reading of the Constitutional Court's ruling: it was predictable. When we had the debate in Parliament, I did not fail to denounce a provision recalling the old regime: the power of the last word to the father in the absence of agreement between the parents as to the choice of name. In this regard, I remember a rather lively exchange of words with Mr Bacquelaine. Some defended the law at that time as a proposal. The Constitutional Court allows us to resume work on a more legal basis, less questionable also in the light of the principle of equality between men and women. It is often the woman who is discriminated against, especially when matters affect old heritages of Roman law. The government can thus decide to leave the initiative to parliament or, on the contrary, to take control of it. It would be interesting to know what your intentions were in this regard. In following this last hypothesis, have you ever outlined a beginning of reflection on an honourable way out of this debate? Comparative law offers us many possibilities and so we are not completely deprived of finding an honest solution. In my view, the principle is that the dual name should be in force, as is the case in a number of States at present. Unless, of course, parents choose to adopt either name, it is indeed a way of recognizing that filiation is not unique. We can, of course, discuss the order in which the names would appear. The drawing of lots would seem a bit surprising to me as a result of uncertainty. Perhaps the simplest rule would be to opt for the alphabetical order of names, this rule being sometimes to the advantage of the father, sometimes to that of the mother. If this can solve the issue without going through infinite procrastination, why not. It is time to take up this matter and to have an indication of the legal outcome of this debate. This bad legislation needs to be adapted as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u15	At the express request of Europe, the name legislation in our country was modernised. Europe had hit on our country a number of times, because children born here automatically got the family name of the daddy. The new law entered into force on 1 June 2014. According to the requested figures, on 31 May 2015 8 657 children already received the double name or the name of the mommy. A large group has therefore used the new legislation to give the mommy's double name or name. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 14 January 2016 annulled the provision that, in case of disagreement between parents or in the absence of choice, the name of the daddy is automatically assigned. How many times has the name of the father been given to the child since the entry into force of the law because of disagreement or absence of choice? My next question concerns the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. That is what the proposal has launched to automatically use the dual family name in case of disagreement or lack of choice, with a neutral rule to determine the order of the two names. As a neutral rule, it proposes a system of draw, an alphabetical order, or a particular system linked to even or odd years. Do you come up with a design? What solution do you see in this respect? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u16	Mr President, Minister, since 1 June 2014, the Act of 8 May 2014 introduces equality of men and women in the way of transmitting the name to the child. It is now envisaged that the child whose paternal and maternal filiations are established simultaneously will bear the name either of the father or of the mother, or the two names in the order chosen by the parents within the limit of one name for each of them. The father's name is only retained in case of disagreement or absence of choice until 31 December 2016, the date on which the annulment of this provision by the Constitutional Court will take effect, unless the parliament legislates until then. The application of the new Article 335 § 1 of the Civil Code seems to pose a problem for Belgians residing abroad, who cannot have their choice of name recognised by the Belgian embassy, which, on receipt of a foreign birth certificate, registered the father's name on its own initiative. Minister, while it is true that the foreign law is not applicable to the determination of the name of a Belgian national, even if he was born abroad and even if he also has foreign nationality, is the official having the status of civil registration officer exempt from the choice of name provided for by the Law of 8 May 2014 when the parents come to declare the birth of their first child for registration in the National Register? Is the answer to this question identical if one of the parents is of foreign nationality? Can the grievor impose, without giving it to the parents, the only name of the father? If so, on what legal basis? Does not the procedure found constitute unjustified discrimination between Belgians depending on whether they are abroad or in Belgium or whether one of the parents is of foreign nationality or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first of all address the issue of the presentation of foreign birth certificates at consular posts referred to by Mr de Lamotte. The FPS Foreign Affairs has informed my administration of the difficulties encountered by some consular posts in this regard. However, these difficulties are not systematic and occur only in very specific situations. As a reminder, these are cases where heads of consular posts are confronted with persons of Belgian nationality who, for various reasons (most often the issuance of a passport), present the birth certificate of their child born abroad. That act shall refer to a name determined under the rules in force in the State in which it was born. According to articles 27 and 37 of the Code of Private International Law, for the name mentioned in the foreign act to be recognized, it must be in conformity with the law of the State of which the person is a national. It is the nationality of the child that must be taken into account in determining the applicable law and not the nationality of the parents. If the child has, in addition to Belgian nationality, another nationality, the issue of the nationality conflict must first be resolved. On the basis of article 3, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 of the Code of Private International Law, the child will be considered Belgian, even if he or she has another nationality. The attribution of the name in Belgium is governed by Articles 335 and 335bis of the Civil Code. The new regime of the Act of 8 May 2014 enshrined the principle of parental autonomy. The parents must express their choice at the time of the child's birth declaration. The question of the difference between the name attributed in a foreign birth certificate and the name attributed by Belgian law to the child who has Belgian nationality is not new. The additional difficulty perceived by consular posts is that in order to give the child a name in accordance with Belgian law, a choice made by the parents should be taken into account in the declaration of birth. Several states have a system similar to ours. In this case, the situation is not problematic. This will be different when, for example, the State in which the child is born imposes a name at the time of birth. Since parents have not been able to exercise the right of choice recognized to them, the heads of consular posts feel that they cannot recognize the name attributed to them by the foreign birth certificate, even if in fact it corresponds to the wishes of the parents. Consequently, they still provisionally apply the default scheme of Article 335(1), paragraph 2, of the Civil Code, because they have not expressed a choice. In order not to penalize the persons concerned, it has been suggested to the relevant FPS Foreign Affairs departments to ask the posts to exercise pragmatism by offering parents, when faced with a problem as mentioned, the possibility of completing a declaration in which they indicate their choice of name. This possibility will of course only be available to parents if they are entitled to make the declaration of choice of name provided for in articles 335 and 335bis of the Civil Code. On the other hand, my colleague from Foreign Affairs and I are working together to develop a more definitive solution offering maximum guarantees. As regards the statistics requested by Mrs Becq, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I can provide some figures on the basis of the data stored in the National Register on the observation date of 2 January 2016. According to that data, between 1 June 2014 and 31 December 2015, out of a total of 166 561 births of Belgian children, 149 933 children received the name of their father and 6 469 their mother; 7 029 children received the double family name father-mother and 1 138 the double family name mother-father. The statistics relating to the name are obtained through the National Register. However, the joint declarations of choice submitted are not registered and the requested data are therefore not available. Figures on the division between choice, no choice and disagreement cannot be provided either. I come to the questions relating to the practical application of the law and the letter of conversion. On the basis of a first quick survey of civil servants, I can answer the following questions for the rest. Officials of civil status shall require the submission of a joint declaration by both parents if only one parent comes to make the declaration. However, many municipalities use the following method, whereby in certain situations no joint declaration is issued: when both parents come together, the choice is signed and both sign the birth certificate. In many cases, when either parent comes alone, the completed model of joint declaration in which the choice is made is included. Where either parent comes alone and the principal does not carry the completed model of joint declaration, the civil servant shall ask the principal what name the parents wish. If that is the father's name, it will be considered a lack of choice and the child will be given the father's name. If it is the mother's name or a double name, the principal will be returned to fill in the model of joint declaration and have both parents sign it. This method does not pose any problems in practice. The fact that the father's name was given, because no choice was made or because there was disagreement, is not mentioned in the deed, but sometimes in the minutes. The circular states that civil servants must satisfy themselves of the agreement of both parents by giving a written declaration from both parents. Civil service officials try to invite parents as best they can to submit the written statement by making the declaration and the corresponding information available on, inter alia, municipal websites, in case of prenatal recognition, at the materiality and at the social assistants of the hospitals. The forms with the choice of the family name are, according to my information, well completed, also by parents who wish the father's name. A general impression among civil servants is that there is little disagreement. Parents do deal very consciously and carefully with the right of choice, just as they do with the first names of their child. Finally, I come to the partial annulment by the Constitutional Court of the law on the transmission of the name. In its judgment of 14 January 2016, the Constitutional Court annulled article 335, § 1, paragraph 2, third sentence of the Civil Code. This provision provides that in the event of disagreement or lack of choice of father and mother, the child shall bear the name of his father. In view of this judgment, an amendment to the law is indeed required. It is therefore important that a legislative initiative be taken quickly. The objective is that the legislative amendment will enter into force on 1 January 2017 in so far as the Constitutional Court decided in the above-mentioned judgment to maintain the effects of the provision annulled until 31 December 2016. At the moment, I cannot give you a precise answer as to the direction that will be taken. The solutions are being examined by my administration. On the other hand, I can assure you that the teaching of this judgment will be taken into account. The legislative amendment will deal only with the provision overturned by the Constitutional Court, namely the default solution in the event of parental disagreement or lack of choice. Consequently, the freedom of choice of name by the parents will be maintained. Whatever the default solution will be, account will have to be taken of the role of the registrar in ascertaining certain facts or acting on what the parties declare to him. It is not equipped to play a more active role in the search for a practical solution. It is therefore important for me to consult the associations representing the registrars. Finally, I will take into account the views of the applicant and intervener associations, such as the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. However, I do not want to limit myself to the views of the parties who intervened in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u18	Minister, thank you for this technical and eminently legal response. I note that this is all about the future. However, people are already in these situations. This will only be possible by means of a change of name procedure or will alternative solutions be possible? I know that a reply implies that no question is asked, but I would like to come back with you later on the existing situations posing some problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I find it particularly interesting to hear what is happening in practice on the services of civil status. This confirms that there is not so much disagreement. Joint declarations are often presented. If nothing is said and the name of the father is chosen, it is immediately regarded as the absence of a choice or disagreement. That is the simplest solution. I think that equality should be brought to the attention of the public, whether it is a lottery ticket, throwing the tar or going alphabetically. If you look at the long-term alphabetical factor, you only get the names at the beginning of the alphabet and not, for example, the names with a v. I'm Becq. If I were married to a v, the b would be chosen. This will eventually lead to the disappearance of a number of family names. So I'm not sure that's the best solution. I don't like the lottery either. We will therefore have to think seriously if the solution consists of the dual choice of name.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u20	Minister, we will see what solution you come up with. I think that some thought will precede this. After all, there are many possibilities. It's hard to find an ideal solution. We will have to think very carefully about how to make the decision. I also regret that no figures are kept when the father's name is chosen because there is disagreement in the couple. We look forward to a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u21	Minister, the question is whether you are going to give your name to a law. So far, we've thought potpourri was a double name... [[laughter]] It is time to erase this survival of Roman law. My professor of Roman law at the first candidacy was pleased to remind us that the authors of Roman law, in order to justify the discrimination against women, said "Propter imbicilitatem sexus". The professor of Roman law said that above all we should be careful to make a translation too literal. This does not mean "because of the imbecility of sex", which would mean nothing, but imbicilitatem means "the weakness of sex". Maybe it's time to say there's no weakness of any sex anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I recall from your figures that on 31 December 2015 and since the entry into force of the law, more than 14 600 children have already been given the name of the mother or the double name. The option, which now exists, is thus taken by many young parents with both hands. I am also reassured by your answer, which shows that there is little disagreement so far and that young parents are carefully dealing with the choice of family name, as they do with the choice of their child's first name. I take note of the fact that you will take a decision carefully and after taking various opinions. So to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u23	Question No 8796 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, this is a recurring issue on my part. Indeed, I have asked you several times about the investigative means used by Belgium to contribute to the establishment of a judicial truth, whatever it may be, in the Kazakhgate file, also known to us as the Chodiev file. In my last question on the subject, you have confirmed to me that information is also under way in Belgium and that, in this context, intensive contacts have taken place with the French judicial authorities in recent weeks. Since we are almost a year later and this is a sensitive case, with strict respect for the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation, I wish to enquire, here, about the progress of the investigation and the duties of investigation carried out, both on the charge and on the discharge. You assured me, at the time, that the file was being followed closely, which I have no doubt. Given its important symbolic character, however, it must be ensured that it does not fall into oblivion. That's the purpose of my questions. Minister, since my last question, have there been any new investigative duties on the part of French investigators in Belgium and Belgian investigators in France? What was the purpose, if any? In X's case, which you told me existed on January 14, 2015, were any new investigative duties carried out? Which ones? What are the next steps in this file and the forecasts of its completion time, whatever it may be? Does the King's attorney intend to speak in the near future on this matter, as we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, in response to your question, the College of Attorneys General provides me with the following information. Since the outbreak of this case in the French media, at the beginning of a report of suspicious movements of funds by the French Financial Intelligence Unit, Tracfin, Belgium has been cooperating in establishing the judicial truth in this case. The investigation, initiated since October 2014, continues without disempowering with the will to determine whether offences, including alleged corruption in the form of influence trafficking, have been committed in Belgium and, if so, who the alleged perpetrators are. Since the opening of this information in Belgium, many duties have already been performed and ordered, and this is still the case. You will understand that the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot give any details of these duties or fail to respect professional secrecy or even obstruct the proper conduct of the investigation. The numerous investigative duties carried out or programmed concern both the analysis of the documents in the French file and the analysis of the various Belgian aspects of the file. To date, almost 20 hearings have already been conducted in the framework of the Belgian survey. Apart from all these duties and various orders, it goes without saying that cooperation with the French police and judicial authorities remains particularly close. It is clear that the cross-transmission of information between Belgium and France through the international letters rogatory, as well as the coordination of actions in one country, are appropriate and desirable on both sides in this type of case. To discuss the next steps envisaged in this dossier, as well as the forecast of its completion time, seems not only undesirable for the proper conduct of the investigation, but also somewhat risky, since the final development of this survey, as well as the time taken to achieve it, still depends on the content of the items collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u26	Minister, I take note of your comments. These are potentially serious facts since you are talking about influence trafficking. I note that the investigation continues with numerous investigative duties and hearings. That seems necessary and I understand that you cannot yet express your views on the outcome of this case. As a curious Member of Parliament who is anxious to see an important case find a judicial truth of any kind, of course I hope that things do not go on. Indeed, for these and other facts, the longer the time between the dispute and the judicial truth, the more difficult it is to establish. In the absence of any news on this matter, I shall therefore allow myself to ask you again in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u27	Minister, in response to a question in plenary on Thursday, 21 January, you announced that you would meet with the members of the Muslim Executive on 22 January and that you would present your plans for reform, including the constitution of the language wings for this representative body. Dialogue is indeed useful and all forces of good will must be used to improve the living together in our country. A form of democratic organization of representatives of the Muslim religion therefore seems to me to be a vehicle for better understanding and prevention of more serious events. So I would have liked to have information following this meeting. What assessment do you make of it? Were all the current members of the Muslim Executive present? Were members qualified as ultras present? Is dialogue also possible with them? How was your proposal to split the Executive into two linguistic entities received? How would this split take place in terms of allocation of resources, affiliation, skills? Will it require new elections? In what form and within what time frame? What missions will continue to be undertaken jointly by the two language wings in a federal entity? Were other avenues of work identified during the same meeting with a view to improving the functioning of the Executive but also its positive influence in preventing radicalisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u28	Minister, I have almost exactly the same question as my colleague, Mr Gilkinet, on the state of play in the consultations on the Muslim executive. I asked you a question about this at the plenary session on 21 January. If I am not mistaken, you had the opportunity to meet the Muslim Executive on 22 January 2016. Part of your reply on 21 January was as follows. There is a royal decision on the division into two sub-Councils, Flemish and French. I'm gonna put that up for consultation one last time on Friday. There is a royal decision on an internal regulation and also a distance from a number of procedures that have so far been carried out for the Council of State. The four radicalising members of the Muslim executive that were mentioned in the press will be present. I don't think they're responsible for that threat, but they're causing a lot of excitement and trouble. We will make the best of that and at the end of this month the royal decree will be signed by the King and myself. I would like to ask you three specific questions. How did this meeting go? Has an agreement been reached? If so, which one? In the meantime, has the KB been signed? If not, when will it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u29	The meeting of 22 January, which continued on 27 January, was a very good and constructive meeting with most members of the Executive, namely fourteen. Given the short time between the invitation and the actual meeting, it should not be surprising that some Members had to give up absenteeism, especially since all members have full-time jobs. In any case, the various main protagonists were present. The proposal to operate the Belgian Muslim Executive in language colleges can count on significant support, especially since in fact the Dutch-speaking part has already been organised for some time. The regionalization of religious skills creates a different reality in the different regions and communities, and the operation of language colleges must enable the Executive to take it into account more efficiently. However, there is still a federal hat that determines the general strategy of cults in terms of temporality. The royal decision can count not only on the support but also on the enthusiasm of the Muslim executive. At present, the Royal Decree is before the administrative and budgetary authorities. However, as previously announced, I wish to sign the royal decree shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u30	Minister, I take note. I believe that all means must be used to prevent radicalisation, that the Muslim Executive can be a vector of prevention as long as it works more optimally and with the necessary means. I can only encourage you to continue. I do not have a negative opinion on some form of regional division of competences and dialogue. There are indeed competences that have been transferred to federated entities and it is not illogical to work in this way, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u31	Minister, I am very pleased that you are concerned about this and that you are not letting go of the matter. Witness to that is that you kept your word and met the Muslim executive on 22 January, and apparently again on 27 January. It's a pleasure for you. I can only encourage that. However, I have another question. Fourteen of the 17 members were present. Were those four more radical members among those 14?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u32	In my reply in plenary, I spoke of soi-disant........ radicalising. I did not have the impression that someone was radical, but when I say that the various protagonists were there, it is certainly true that the four people you mentioned were present and very constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u33	That's even better news. We will continue to follow up on this dossier. I am also pleased that the royal decree was welcomed enthusiastically in the Muslim executive and we look forward to its signature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u34	Mr Minister, I am asking you about a problem that I am dear to as a representative of a territory full of history, in this case the territory of Thudinia. As a municipalist, I see that we are facing a major problem. Recently – this is part of the anecdote but the problem is much more general – the Thudinian Center of History and Art has noticed, in a book published in English by experts in the field, that some Celtic gold pieces, discovered on Thudinian soil and not listed, would now be in the hands of the Tongres Museum, which is also a high-quality museum, I emphasize in passing. As a result, these parts were allegedly sold and bought illegally, without first being reported or without any request for searches from the owner, i.e. the city of Thuin. This is an example that reflects a much more general reality. This problem of soil looting remains important in Belgium, as is the difficulty of pursuing these lines, which it seems would be organised. Mr Minister, in addition to the arrangements put in place at regional level, can you give us more information on what is provided for in federal legislation against soil looting in Belgium? Have you ever received any such complaints? If so, what is the percentage? What follow-up have you given them? What are the penalties for this? What actions can be taken to recover these coins?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u35	Mr Blanchart, in answer to your question, Celtic gold coins discovered on Thudinian soil and not listed could be awarded several civil legal qualifications. First, it could be res derelictae. It is a shame that Mr. Maingain left because it is Roman law; it refers to things that have been abandoned by their previous owner and no longer belong to anyone. In this case, the person who discovered the pieces could appropriate them, since they do not belong to anyone, and become through the occupatio, i.e. the possession of the pieces, their new owner. Second, and more likely, Celtic gold coins could be a treasure within the meaning of article 716 of the Civil Code. Treasure is defined as anything hidden or buried on which no one can justify his property and which is discovered by the pure effect of chance. As for the property of the treasure, article 716 states: "The property of a treasure belongs to him who finds it in his own fund: if the treasure is found in the fund of others, it belongs to him who discovered it for half, and for the other half to the owner of the fund." Under this provision, if the gold coins considered to be treasure have been found on their inventor's fonds, they belong to them in their entirety. On the other hand, if the rooms were found on land that is privately owned in the city of Thuin, Thuin could claim ownership for half. It is only if the documents have been found outside private property, i.e. on the public highway, on a fund which serves indistinctly for the use of all or which has been specially assigned to the public domain, that they must be handed over to the municipal administration, pursuant to Article 1 of the Act of 30 December 1975 concerning property found outside private property or placed on the public highway in execution of a judgment of expulsion. However, this law does not explicitly derogate from article 716 of the Civil Code, which may well be applicable. It is therefore not certain that this 1975 law applies to treasures. Third, Celtic gold coins could be wrecks. Wreckage is property that has been lost by its owners. Unlike treasures, they were not buried or hidden voluntarily but were simply lost. There is no provision in the Civil Code for wreckage. However, it is accepted that, in the absence of a specific rule, the wrecks are attributed to those who discover them, who only become owners of them after an inquisitive requirement of thirty years. With regard to the remedies available to the City of Thuin, in the event that, under the above-mentioned civil rules, it would own all or part of the Celtic gold coins discovered on Thuinian soil, it could claim them in accordance with articles 2279 (2) and 2280 of the Civil Code if the conditions were met. In addition, article 508 of the Criminal Code could be applied. Undue appropriation of a treasure, even partial, is an offence. On the other hand, the nullity of the sale of the thing of others provided for in article 1599 of the Civil Code can only be invoked by the buyer against the seller. In this case, Thuin could not claim this nullity. The facts presented should be further clarified in order to determine how these gold coins should be legally qualified, the identity of their owner and the remedies that the city of Thuin could bring. In addition, it should be noted that cultural heritage is covered by the Community matters referred to in Article 127(1) of the Constitution, in accordance with Article 4 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms. Decrees regulate the procedures to be followed for the classification of movable cultural property.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u36	Minister, regardless of the measures being taken on the ground to eradicate the phenomenon, this is a territory owned by the city of Thuin. These are well-organized and well-equipped gangs that have been looting in the field for several years. It was already the fourth successive treasure that was discovered. Of course, we never mention the public place where it was discovered. This, of course, took place in a private garden, thanks to the use of a detector. But the problem remains general. Thank you for your answers. We will therefore study the matter and consider what needs to be done in this regard. In addition to legal action, there will certainly be a meeting with the Community institutions which can help us to organise scientific excavations worthy of this name, which will make it possible to highlight the city of Thuin, capital of Gauls, which is now recognised by several European universities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 8968 was dealt with in the Committee on the Interior. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 8988 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u38	Minister, at the end of last year, a returned Syrian fighter demanded compensation of as much as EUR 100 000 from the Belgian government. The reason for this was a case in which the judge had held that the person in question had to be thoroughly observed first in order to determine whether or not he was responsible. The internment law of 1964 provides that an observation in a psychiatric ward in a criminal facility should be possible. Also the later repair laws or laws to amend or supplement, provide for the establishment of such a Penitentiary Research and Clinical Observation Centre, simply POKO, to investigate in a thorough manner whether or not someone is responsible. Now, more than fifty years later, this POKO is still not here. Yesterday you referred to it in connection with the explanation of potpourri III and I saw that it contains a number of initiatives, but my question dates from before. What happens to people who are being put to observation at the moment? What should or can be done to provide a temporary solution, pending the introduction of the POKO? I have already read that potpourri III meets at least part of this. Do you already have any idea where and when such a POKO would be set up? Have any complaints been made and compensation paid in the past? If so, how many complaints are involved and for what total amount? Or are we talking about a predator, in the negative sense of the word?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u39	Mrs Uyttersprot, the expert investigations can take place today in prison, where the person under investigation is in remand. Depending on the severity of the alleged mental disorder, one or more experts go to prison to investigate the defendant's state of mind in the presence of the suspect. The study includes interviews, testing and observation of behaviour during the study itself. Article 217, 1° of the Law amending criminal law and criminal proceedings and laying down various provisions on justice, potpourri II, has postponed the establishment of the Clinically Secured Centre, as provided for in the Law of 5 May 2014 on Internment, until 2020 at the latest. This delay is justified by the construction of the prison in Haren, where the observation center is housed. The demand for the layout of an observation center is a question of the location of the center. What is important today is the guarantee that the expert review can be carried out in accordance with the provisions and criteria laid down in the Law of 5 May 2014, even though, in an initial period following the entry into force of the potpourri III Act, which amends the Law of 5 May 2014, there will be no inferences in a specialised centre. Subject to the file to which you refer in your question, I am not aware of any complaints or requests for compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u40	Minister, the latter is particularly important. I had already received an answer to the other questions in the last few days, as I said, in the speech on potpourri III. It is true that an investigation is not evident at the moment. A penitentiary centre is not directly an environment where such research can be carried out in a quality manner, but an FPC is not designed for that purpose either, as this puts the treatment and care first and not the observation. I understand, of course, that you cannot solve everything at once and that this requires both structural and financial effort. I look forward to the prison of Haren and I suppose this point will be discussed extensively during the discussion of potpourri III.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u41	Minister, when parents divorce or break up, respect for rights of access is often a difficult issue. Too often children are used as weapons in divorce issues. If an ex-partner then prevents the beneficiary from exercising the right of access in a normal way, then in principle it has different possibilities on a legal basis. On the one hand, this can be done in criminal matters, by lodging a complaint with the police or the investigating judge. There is also the possibility of subpoenaing directly. It is also possible to make progress in the civil sphere by imposing coercive measures against it. At the end of September, I asked you a written question on figures to get a look at complaints, dismissals, proceedings, subpoenas and prosecutions in the context of non-compliance with rights of access. Unfortunately, I had to read in your reply that there seems to be no statistical data available and therefore we do not have reliable figures. For what reason can the figures not be made available? Is it not desirable to keep up with these data, so that at least the evolution can be better monitored in order to evaluate and optimise the legislation? Is such a module foreseen in future in the context of computerisation and digitisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u42	Mrs Uyttersprot, the registration of penalties in the event of non-compliance with rights of access is not correct. At the level of the parquet, registration is done on the prevention code 42F which is linked in the court system to the qualification codes corresponding to the old articles 369 and 369bis of the Criminal Code. There are currently no codes for the new Articles 431 and 432 of the Criminal Code. The registration in the IT application is therefore in accordance with the old legislation, so that the information does not correspond to reality. I agree with you that it is important to keep up with this data and to get a clear picture of the complaints and the consequences that are being made at the level of the public prosecutor. Work is currently under way on the creation of codes to resolve the problem as soon as possible. At the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, a Nomenclature Committee was set up to examine the nomenclature of parquet statistics linked to the qualification codes. This committee was re-established last year and should ensure a more harmonised integrated nomenclature for criminal statistics. I will also refer the problem that you raise to this committee with the request that it be given an appropriate follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u43	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. As you know, I have already requested figures in similar cases. It is not always clear which legislation is effective and is responding to citizens if we do not know how to prosecute or how to condemn them. It is a pity that such things are not possible at a time when everyone is talking about computerisation. In the private sector, people would be surprised. Of course, we can't do magic either. It is essential that it can be discussed in this committee within a very short period of time in order to ensure proper evaluation and optimization of legislation. Thank you for taking that to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u44	Mr President, Minister, since 2009, the law on business continuity, the WCO, has been in force. In practical applications, however, there is often uncertainty about cost. In addition to the legally foreseen EUR 1 000 roll-over rights introduced since 1 January 2015, a number of judicial districts also charge fees for court fees, whereas in other districts this is not the case. I assume that some of these differences will have been eliminated by reducing the number of judicial districts. In practice, however, they still exist and there appears to be no uniform treatment at different Registrys. In addition, there would also be differences about who already charges the court fees, the FPS Justice or the entrepreneur himself. That's why I have the following questions. Does this difference still exist? Is it normal to charge costs to companies in different ways, depending on the judicial district? With a view to uniformity and legal certainty, can it be ensured that all districts apply the same rate? If you think this should be done, do you plan an initiative for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, since 31 December 2014, and in application of Articles 44 and 62 of the Law of 27 May 2013, which amended the Law of 31 January 2009 on the continuity of undertakings, a Registry Law of EUR 1 000 is levied upon an application for the opening of a judicial reorganisation procedure provided for in Articles 17 and 59 of the 2009 Law. It is not clear to me what fees on court fees you mean. Since bankruptcy proceedings are initially dealt with within the civil pillar of the judicial organisation, they are referred to as court fees in civil matters. If an expert is appointed in this civil context, the price of the investigation shall be the subject of discussion between the various parties, the experts and competent persons within the judicial organisation. The likely amount of this expertise should be paid in advance by the parties to the competent authorities within the judicial organisation and should be considered as court fees in civil matters. For these costs, the Minister cannot impose uniform tariffs, because these cases form part of the parties' private interests, as opposed to court fees in criminal matters. If the second point of your question concerns expenditure on judicial costs in criminal matters, it may be that in cases of a pro-Deo case or, where appropriate, in the context of a civil court order, the costs of such expenditure may be advanced through the commission of court fees in criminal matters, but at the rates applicable to court fees in criminal matters. The court costs incurred shall then, where possible, be recovered from the party concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u46	Mr Minister, my question was different, but it may be because of the question itself. It wasn't so much about expert fees. After all, I am aware that they cannot be determined in advance in any case. It differs on a case-by-case basis, whether civil or criminal. It was rather my job to do the cost. Just think of the necessary publications in the Belgian Official Journal, or of a situation in which foreign debtors must be registered as part of the WCO. Apparently, a different regulation on costs is applied by the Registry. This difference in costs can apparently amount to EUR 1 000. That's a huge difference. I do think that some of this has already been eliminated by increasing the scale of the judicial districts, but apparently there are still considerable differences. If we then look at exactly who the target group of the WCO is, it often turns out to be about companies in difficulty. If an additional budget of EUR 1 000 is then requested, which is different from one location to another, this will increase legal uncertainty. I would ask you to take this with you, since the question was not entirely understandable. It is therefore a question of the additional costs that are in one place in the roll right and are charged in the other place in a supplementary way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u47	Minister, the law on business continuity (WCO) aims to give firms in difficulty maximum opportunities to overcome the difficulties and to save the company or part of it. In 2013, a number of important changes were made to prevent abuse in the application of the law and, on the other hand, to strengthen the role of external stakeholders such as an accountant, a tax consultant or a company auditor in order to prevent it. The objective of the judicial reorganisation procedure is clear and threefold. Either a friendly agreement is concluded with one or more creditors, or a collective agreement is concluded, or a transfer of the whole or part of the undertaking comes under judicial authority. The procedure has therefore been conceived as a portal, making available to the entrepreneur several options for carrying out a reorganisation. Once the proceedings have been opened, the company is temporarily protected against enforcement measures by creditors. The law aims to reduce the number of bankruptcies by giving companies a fresh breath. In addition to preventing bankruptcy, the aim is also to protect the employment of workers within the companies using the WCO. The law itself is almost seven years old, but the 2013 repair law to adjust the WCO may require an evaluation. That is why I have a number of questions. First of all, does the law comply with the idea of giving companies a second chance? Did this reduce the number of bankruptcies? I happened to see the figures yesterday: on the Flemish side, that would certainly be the case. Do you see a direct correlation between this decrease and the WCO? Secondly, how many companies have so far benefited from the WCO per year? Thirdly, are there any significant differences between the various judicial districts in relation to the number of companies using the WCO? Is there any evolution over the years? Fourthly, how many companies that have appealed to the WCO since the 2009 Act went bankrupt after that? Are there differences in this area by judicial arrondissements and is there a trend in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the objective of the law on the continuity of undertakings is to enable the debtor in difficulty to get the company back on track by means of a friendly agreement, by means of a collective agreement or by means of a transfer of the undertaking or business, without the debtor completely losing control of his business. In this context, the law meets the idea of giving companies a second chance. According to statistics relating to 2015, available on the website www.graydon.be, the number of bankruptcies decreased by 6.06 % compared to the same period in 2014. According to another Graydon study, also available on the website www.graydon.be, there were 7 564 judicial reorganisations between 2009 and March 2015. I keep available the divided figures per calendar year, as well as the breakdown between the regions. The same study carried out by Graydon shows that, until 2012, the percentages between the different regions are stable and constant. Following the amendment of the Law of 27 May 2013 of the Law of 31 January 2009 on the continuity of undertakings, a shift occurs. Since then, the number of pronounced suspensions has been higher in Wallonia than in Flanders. According to Graydon, this is not or little linked to cyclical factors, such as the number of bankruptcies, but is due to the approach or vision of the legislative changes, which are different in the courts of each region. Finally, according to the aforementioned Graydon study, the percentage of companies declared bankrupt within nine months following judicial reorganisation is 28,57 % respectively for 2009, 30.01 % for 2010, 28,95 % for 2011, 31,32 % for 2012, 31 % for 2013 and 29,64 % for 2014. From what preceded, it can be concluded that the percentage remains more or less constant between 28,57 % and 31,32 %. My services do not have any relevant information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u49	Minister, I will take my time to look at the figures. The most important thing to remember is that there is a decrease of more than 6 %. It is possible that the WCO will have a positive impact on this, especially given that only a relatively low percentage of less than a third will effectively fail after the WCO procedure has been completed. So we can only draw positive lessons from the second chance policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u50	I've got numbers for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u51	Minister, a few weeks ago, the government announced that the Aliens Office's pre-reception services were now being accompanied by the security services in order to detect possible false asylum seekers who might have links to terrorist, jihadist and religious radicalism circles. On 27 January, some media outlets echoed the arrest of an asylum-seeker in a Fedasil centre in Jumet. It appears that the arrested person did have such links. At the Franco-Belgian summit in which you participated on Monday, there was still a question of the control of refugees entering Europe because it is clear, even if this is probably a large minority, that this influx of migrants is used by radical terrorists to hide and thus gain access to the Schengen area, and therefore also to our country. If a question is asked about this to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I would like you to answer the following questions which, I believe, depend on your competence. During the preliminary processing of a pre-reception request, what identification analysis is carried out by the State Security in collaboration with the services of the Aliens Office? Is there a systematization or is it random? Is there a procedure at the analysis level? Furthermore, in the particular case concerning the arrest in Jumet, had an analysis been carried out by the security services? Are the proven facts relating to the El Group subsequent to the registration of the asylum-seeker by the services of the Aliens Office? Finally, is the discovery of the connection of the arrested person in Jumet with the terrorist circles the result of a special monitoring of the justice services in the reception centres for refugee candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u52	Mr Pivin, the Office for Foreigners and the State Security have been working together for many years under a memorandum of understanding. Given the current context of the migrant crisis and the related threats from the Islamic State, a systematic screening of asylum-seekers has been put in place. Between 7 September and 21 December, the Sûreté conducted screening of Iraqi and Syrian asylum seekers. Since 21 December, the intelligence service has been responsible for screening asylum seekers from all nationalities. To date, 12,014 of them have been verified in the State Security database, including the international list of foreign terrorist fighters known on the basis of the "hit/no hit" principle. In the event of a confirmed hit, the service transmits relevant information to the Aliens Office and the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, in addition to a copy to the General Intelligence and Security Service and the Federal Police. It should be noted that the State Security Service is a defensive intelligence service and, for this reason, since asylum seekers are usually first-time arrivals, most of them are unknown to the Security Service. This screening is not a definitive response. The Aliens Office and the Office of the Commissioner-General may contact the State Security at any time in the proceedings in order to inform them of a problematic profile. A more in-depth investigation may then be undertaken by the Intelligence Service. Apart from this procedure and, having regard to its powers, the Sûreté obviously remains attentive to all the signals related to the migrant crisis. Moreover, in addition to the local task forces of the "radicalism" plan, which meet regularly at local level, a new working group on asylum and migration has been set up at the federal level within the R plan. It brings together the various intelligence and security services as well as the asylum and migration authorities. The aim of this working group is to promote the exchange of information between the various services on radicalism and terrorism. An article published in Le Soir on 27 January deals with the arrest of an asylum-seeker. The person concerned is an Iraqi who was registered as such on 24 August 2015, in other words before the beginning of the screening in question. The police's finding that this individual is visible on the photos with an Islamic State flag is based on his recording. This information was shared with all relevant departments. Because of the secrecy of the criminal investigation, however, I cannot say more about this individual case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u53	Minister, I think you've told me enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u54	Mr President, Minister, on December 2, you gave us some information about the attacks in Paris. Of course, I know that a series of information is covered by the secrecy of the investigation. Nevertheless, could you take stock of the situation? In fact, contrary to what is happening in France, we do not have a national magistrate to give us regular information on the state of the investigations. So how many authors have been arrested in Belgium? What possible complicity has been revealed? What about the modes of intervention and the number of charges? Can you tell us about international links concerning, inter alia, arms trafficking? Finally, what can you tell us about logistics bases or caches in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u55	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, at present it is not possible to communicate more about the attacks in Paris than what has been communicated by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Since 13 November, no fewer than 39 press releases have been issued by the press officers of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, as far as the investigation directly related to the attacks is concerned. I'd like to send you back. Such communications to the press have, on each occasion, provided the information necessary for public opinion, provided that such disclosures are not prejudicial to the investigation and to the right of defence of the persons involved. The secrecy of the investigation is a primary guarantee of our judicial system, which explains the caution of the judicial authorities in their communications. As you know, the survey has now been able to update an extensive logistics support network with three caches discovered in Belgium and three in France. It also refers to the use of forged papers made in Belgium, weapons, multiple rental vehicles and the manufacture of handcrafted explosives. Eight persons were thus placed under arrest. Some of them are suspected of being actively involved in the preparations for the attacks. One person was released under conditions. Two others were charged. An international arrest warrant was issued against Mr. Dahmani arrested in Turkey directly after the attacks. Moreover, the Belgian services have allowed the recent DNA identification of one of the protagonists of Belgian-Moroccan nationality in the house stormed in Saint-Denis. This development allowed the Moroccan authorities to arrest an additional suspect in Morocco who had been the subject of a Belgian international arrest warrant since August last. The federal prosecutor assures me that the investigation continues without disrepair. It can still, at every moment, experience new developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u56	Minister, thank you for the few pieces of information you have given me. You're right, a series of communications were made by the magistrates. What I find interesting, and you just did it succinctly, is that you provide consolidated information on progress. As Minister of Justice, it would be good if you could report regularly to parliamentarians on progress. We know all the work that is being done by Committee P. I think it is normal and justified for parliamentarians to ask you about these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the press on 25 January echoed the decision of the Municipal College of Coxide not to prohibit access to the pool for asylum seekers. The proposal, considered discriminatory, had been launched by the mayor following several incidents, in particular following the filing of a charge of alleged assault of a minor by a person residing in the reception centre. The Prosecution found itself in fact to be a gross error of appreciation or the result of an unhealthy climate of manipulation. Beyond this surrealistic outcome, with multiple twists, basic rules of law and common sense were lacking in this case. Indeed, the young Iraqi was detained even before the end of the investigation and any conviction. Would the migrant now be presumed guilty? How can we explain that no one reacted when the Secretary of State for Asylum, Theo Francken, placed him immediately in a closed centre for deportation, without waiting for the conclusions of the prosecution's investigation? Shouldn't we see the traces of two-speed justice in our country? Should it be considered that the current context would make it possible to put the rule of law in parentheses, that there would no longer be a need to respect the presumption of innocence, that asylum-seekers could be detained and expelled without a review of guilt by the existing courts? Minister, in what capacity did this deprivation of liberty take place? Who decided this deprivation of liberty? On what basis? In view of all these elements, what measures have been taken? What are you advocating to avoid this kind of moral harm? How do you intend to defend the presumption of innocence in this kind of case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u58	Colleagues, as far as the Coxide incident is concerned, I can tell you the following. On the judicial file, the resident of the asylum centre in Coxide suspected of indecent assault on a ten-year-old minor girl with a slight mental disability was still present shortly after the incident and was taken to the office for interrogation. The girl's companion was also heard. After the hearings, the magistrate held that the facts were not of such a nature that the suspect should be taken before the investigating judge. The person concerned was able to dispose. The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore found that there were no grounds for pre-trial detention. The investigation is in the final stage. For the time being, there is no evidence to hold the indecent charge. On the administrative file, after his release by the prosecutor, he was made available to the government on 24 January 2016, with a view to his return to the border. The reason for this decision of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration is that the person concerned was arrested on 23 January 2016 for indecent assault on a ten-year-old minor girl caught in flagrante delicto. He allegedly, with his personal conduct, seriously harmed public order. Appeal was lodged against this decision before the Chamber of the Council of Furnes, which, on 2 January 2016, decided that the person concerned should be released. For more information, I refer you to my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u59	Minister, your answer is complete. On the justice side, there is no charge. The work seems to be over. At this stage, there is nothing that could lead the justice system to arrest the person concerned. At the same time, at the administrative level, a procedure was initiated by your colleague. This was the subject of an appeal, which forced the authorities to release the person concerned. If I understand correctly, since he is a foreign national, there has been a twofold procedure in place: judicial and administrative. Is this not a problem for a dual procedure to be set up at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u60	Our legislation provides for these two ways and does not exclude their coincidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u61	In terms of Belgium's image, why is there not, in the judicial or administrative investigation, a time when it is possible to talk to each other to make all the clarity? The signal sent to the population was a first signal. Your services then sent a second signal that was quite negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u62	Mr President, Minister, this weekend should have been held in Brussels the Baby Bloom event, a show for surrogate mothers, promoting pregnancy for others. We're really in lucrative business. The amounts quoted are extremely high. It is therefore not within a framework which leaves any doubt in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u64	The mother is chosen on a catalogue based on a whole series of characteristics. We're shopping. One can understand the desire to have a child, one can share the pain that some couples may experience in not having a child, but it is totally unacceptable that associations, often American, take advantage of this distress to make it a lucrative market that reduces the child to a commercial product, which reduces the woman to a uterus rental and a gamete purchase. We rent the woman and buy the child once he's born! This isn't the first time. There was one almost a year ago. But most importantly, Minister, a new show is scheduled for May next. It'll be the third. The second one looks like he didn't stand up. You have already been questioned on a subject of the same type: when you follow a procedure abroad and then you come back with the child. I'm not going to quote your entire response at the time. I have retained one element: "Jurisprudence considers, for example, that the use of a surrogate mother in exchange for money is incompatible with public order." I have, of course, been back in the legislation. First of all, we have the Civil Code. This is clear: "all or part of the body cannot be used for commercial purposes". You're going to tell me it's the Civil Code, but there's also the Criminal Code. Article 4 of the Act of 13 June 1986 on the removal and transplantation of organs prohibits any transfer of organs or tissues for profit. The law of 6 July 2007 also seems very clear to me. It deals with medically assisted procreation. We are well within this framework here. The gift of gametes must be free. This legislation expressly prohibits the marketing of human embryos and gametes, in accordance with the extra-patrimonial character of the human body and its components and products. We can of course draw the conclusion that there is a general ban on the lucrative marketing of the human body, its components and its products. If the legislation makes nuances for certain aspects, these can only be achieved without any benefit. Here, in this area, we are in a trade show that organizes the marketing. Yet there is an existing legal framework that seems very clear to me on this kind of lucrative approach. How can we get to the situation where this type of trade fair is held in Belgium? He's not the first. There's still one in the near future. What is your opinion on the matter? Has the College of Attorneys General addressed this issue? Does it not seem to you to be useful, important and necessary for the College of Attorneys General to take a position? Is it not simply time to take an initiative in this regard? So I'm turning to you. It's February. We have time before May. I find it particularly unfortunate that we are waiting for the arms to be rolled again until May before we can send out a very clear signal on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u65	As far as your first question is concerned, I should like to point out that while France has a prohibition of pregnancy for others in principle, the Belgian Penal Code does not contain any specific criminalization of pregnancy for others, or of the sale or purchase of children, which may nevertheless constitute the following more general offences: substitution of children (article 363 of the Criminal Code), offence of adoption (articles 391quater and 391quinquies of the Criminal Code), forgery and use of forgery (articles 193 et seq. of the Criminal Code), degrading treatment (article 417quinquies of the Criminal Code), trafficking in human beings for the purpose of services in conditions contrary to human dignity (article 433quinquies of the Criminal Code, as amended in 2013). These latter incriminations could be used in the case of pregnancy for others in the case of recruitment of a surrogate mother under conditions considered unworthy by a judge. In the event of a serious form of trafficking in human beings, i.e. with the use of coercion or abuse of the person's vulnerability, proceedings by the Belgian courts are possible, even if the acts were committed abroad, provided that the author is found in Belgium. Participation is punishable on the basis of articles 60 and 67 of the Criminal Code. I quote the House's report, document 53/2607/004: "The extension of the terminology of trafficking in human beings meets the requirements of the European Union and the Council of Europe, which call for national legislation to leave sufficient room to take account of modern forms of trafficking in human beings. This extension goes beyond purely economic exploitation. It is also intended, for example, to force a woman to carry a child for the benefit of a third party, to force a person to carry packages of drugs in his stomach, etc. The proposed amendments shall provide sufficient flexibility to permit an evolving interpretation of the offence in question." In addition, the Act of 6 July 2007 on medically assisted reproduction and the destination of supernumerary embryos and gametes, known as the LDC Act, contains a general penal provision. This Act, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Public Health, requires that a fertilization centre be established through a convention, etc. It does not prohibit the use of surrogate mothers in an LDC within a fertilization centre, nor does it prohibit the use of surrogate mothers outside fertilization centres without LDCs. Finally, the bioethics ban on the marketing of the human body is not provided for as such in a law, if not in relation to organs. The Organ Removal Act 1986 prohibits advertising for an organ offer for lucrative purposes. We are therefore looking at what legal basis exists to prohibit the holding of a trade fair inviting the violation of Belgian bioethics standards. I will not fail to inform you when we have found her. I regret to have to make it clear that it will be impossible for the College of Public Prosecutors to answer your second question within the time limit, especially since it will be necessary to ask the territorially competent Public Prosecutor's Office to forward information on any initiatives that it might have been considered appropriate. I will not fail to pass on this information to you as soon as it reaches me. The Government Agreement does not provide for a government initiative on pregnancy for others. Nevertheless, this practice raises serious questions, as the recent news to which you refer recalls. However, the Senate took the lead and issued an information report on December 4, 2015 – document 6-98/2. In addition, several bills are pending in the House. Parliament therefore has a hand in this matter. In any case, know that, like you, I consider the human body and everything related to it to be out of trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic334x.u66	Minister, thank you. I am not a lawyer but with regard to the two laws, the one concerning the LDC and the one concerning the removal and transplantation of organs, my reading is not the same as yours. In fact, it seems to me that in the preparatory work, things had still been framed. On the LDC gametes, you say that the obligation is carried by the Centre and that, basically, it does not exclude the salon. We are out of the center here, we agree, but in this LDC law, the articles are very clear on the donation of gametes and prohibit their marketing. Here we are obviously on two sides: that of the child - you talked about it at the beginning - but there is also necessarily the purchase of the mother's gametes, since the surrogate mother in a number of cases sells her gametes. As for the law on the collection and transplantation of organs, you say that we cannot refer to it. I find it disturbing that this legislation cannot be applied in the case I have just mentioned. Again, tissues and organs are given up on at least two aspects: both on the mother's side and on the child's side. However, the law imposes a complete prohibition when the purpose is lucrative. Despite the limitations of my legal knowledge, I note that a fairly thorough legal analysis has been carried out. The Bioethics Advisory Committee also conducted a very thorough analysis of existing legislation and jurisprudence. As much as what needed to be done later, there were several interpretations, as much about the legislation as it exists today, there was still a common vision of all members of the Bioethics Advisory Committee on these aspects. It is always a little difficult, when there are laws, to find elements that make it possible to escape them. But the legal framework is there. I think that justice should take a very close look at it. Is there a need for a more detailed legal analysis, if existing legislation is to be decoded? On the other hand, you have referred to GPA more comprehensively. Here I was allowing myself to put a particular focus on a gestation for another commercial, purely for profit. I think, minister, I would like to insist, that we cannot stand by until the next show is held in May. We still have a little time ahead of us for this aspect of things that is totally unacceptable and unbudgetable. Thank you.
