ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u2	Prime Minister, my question will be simple and direct. What initiatives are you going to take in the hours or in the days to come for a quick exit from the crisis? The situation in the country has been deteriorating for more than two months now, with a huge economic impact and a dramatic social impact. Workers, citizens, students, everyone is tired of this inertia. Prime Minister, since you're done with your fluo, I'll give you a little advice. Spare us your consideration of each other's responsibilities. Turn to solutions. What proposals will you make for an exit from the crisis? Making proposals is your job. If I may repeat the title of your own communication, Prime Minister: "At work!" It is now up to you to make proposals to get out of the crisis. Let's be clear, don't come back with the four million of your big communication plan. I am talking about solid proposals that will allow each other to return to the table without the sword of Damocles from those blind and linear savings that you impose on every public service. Prime Minister, the citizens of this country are entitled to expect, in your reply to Parliament, a clear exit strategy, and a plan of investments in the future, and in their future. I hope that you will not disappoint the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the face of any crisis situation, there are two ways of reacting, either to its certainties, as do those who call for the privatisation of the railways in the midst of a strike, or to remember; to remember that our country was built on the basis of permanent social consultation, with mutual respect; to remember that our country has become the fifteenth economic power of the world, thanks to the efforts of all its citizens, including millions of workers; to remember that our country had, until recently, succeeded in going through the economic and financial crisis, without increasing inequalities and preserving to the fullest the purchasing power of citizens; to remember that public services are the good of each of our citizens and that they should be protected and strengthened. Of course, remembering all this will not forget the jump in the index, the rise to 67 years of pension age, the increase in VAT on electricity or the savings in health care, all of which are unfair measures that are imposed on the citizens of our country when, at the same time, some have the means to cheat and not to contribute to the community. I condemn, Prime Minister, like you, every act of violence, every attack on physical integrity and every outrageous approach that targets people, not ideas. But how can we not understand the anger and feeling of injustice that more and more citizens are experiencing? Together, let us remind the world that the Belgian model is successful in bringing together communities of different opinions and opinions! It is not a confession of weakness to take a step on the path of dialogue on the path of compromise. Political courage is to confront its certainties with the reality of citizens' lives. Political courage is to leave the discourse that claims that, in order to get out of the crisis, there is no alternative to your austerity policy. More recently, the International Monetary Fund stated: "The increase in inequality diminishes the level of vitality of growth". Today, reality requires you, Prime Minister, to rise above the mound while involving you more in conflict resolution. Today, two ways are possible: to persist in confrontation or to choose appeasement and to open a real dialogue. I call on every part of this social conflict to take a step. What is your step, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u4	Prime Minister, you launched last weekend in the northern press an idea that is not new, and certainly not in the ranks of the political formation that you represent: the idea of a referendum on societal issues and, perhaps, on the political choices of your majority government. Given, if so, that you are not certain of the public's confidence in the government's policy choices that you impose on the country, without even having taken these choices of society in the declaration of your election campaign. When we compare the NCM program of the election campaign and what you are doing today, there are more than big gaps. I understand that you wish to return to the people by referendum. It can be expected that when the Prime Minister speaks with such a strong choice, the majority will be united. Nothing like that has happened. So, what do we have to understand? Is this an idea to think about in the Constitutional Review Commission? Is it a confession of doubt or even failure? Or are you really going to give yourself the means to the ambition you have announced? Are you going to propose, I do not know on what legal basis, a realistic way to achieve the objective you have set yourself? Or is it simply a smokescreen to make the country believe that you are concerned about the voice of the people, as you move away from it more and more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say a few words about a criticism which is often expressed and which means that the government does not have a majority in one part of the country. That is being targeted today, including by the PS. The previous government, led by Mr Di Rupo, had no majority in the Flemish part of the country. At the time that was not a problem for the PS at all, but it was a stone of offense for the N-VA. Today they're both in the other camp, but it comes down to the same thing. Secondly, I would like to say that, when we talk about social dialogue, the intention of social dialogue still comes down to making agreements. Quod nun. After all, what do we see? We see that agreements that have been made at some point, both at the guard strike and at the rail strike, are not being honoured. If the basic systematically the negotiators whistle back, then the union has a legitimacy problem. Then the leadership of the union has a serious problem, not your government, Prime Minister. You always fall back on a majority here in Parliament. I note that the social dialogue, which should basically mean that agreements can be worked out, fails to honour and implement the agreements concluded. Thirdly, what have the events of the socialist government syndicate taught us in recent days? Pure Kafka. Minister None has continued to negotiate. The Flemish wing has repeatedly, faced with an existential problem, asked the Minister to stop making new proposals, because they had actually received what they had asked for. On the French-speaking side it has been said that there has been a further ceasefire. For what reason? There is a ceasefire until the fall of the government. It has a name, it has a qualification, it's called a political strike. That is a political strike! The group chairmen of the Flemish and French-speaking socialist parties have sent a letter to the trade unions. They ask their trade unions to stop this Community division, because they are playing into the hands of forces they are hostile to. Who let the ghost out of the bottle? Those who play with fire will suffer the consequences. Mrs Onkelinx, first of all we are eagerly using trade-union measures to promote opposition work in Parliament, and then when we see that the trade-union actions become uncontrolled and distasteful, becoming degout at the market square in Mons, Mr Di Rupo, we try to distance ourselves from them. Who let it come to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u6	(...) the general situation of the country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u7	When you tell the truth in this parliament, you start screaming! Only the truth hurts! Mr Prime Minister, I come to my urgent question. I only have one motto for the government: talking to unions and social partners can and should, but not fold. Prime Minister, I see the issues involved, namely building up railway compensation days during holidays. An employee takes a vacation, but wants to build up compensation days during that vacation. If people are told that this demand today is the use of blind syndical anger, I would tell you not to fold, to continue and to continue with the reforms. You can continue to count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, the strikes of recent weeks must not forget that the vast majority of Belgians, including those working for the government, have worked and have not stopped. We must not forget that, and we are very grateful to them for that. Some actions, such as sabotage on the track, violence against people or wild strikes that do not allow travellers to return home from work, are unacceptable to us. Colleagues, however, it is not unusual for workers to try to retain acquired rights which they have. That's human. However, the world is changing; the economy is changing and we cannot stand still. We must reform. Stand still is reverse. Some want to take advantage of the uncertainty that exists today to turn people against each other, to polarize and to push the blackbird through. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is not participating in this. There is a sense of uncertainty in society and we must have empathy for it. Empathy, as the Minister of Justice has shown with a great deal of effort for weeks. In this way he was able to convince two thirds of the trade unions and reach an agreement that strikes a balance between acquired rights and reforms. Empathy, Prime Minister, as you and the Minister of Work have demonstrated over the last year and a half by concluding social agreements in many areas which have also been implemented and respected. That is the way forward, ladies and gentlemen. A comparison has been made with the Unity Act. Those who have done so are mistaken. The Single Act was a law approved by the government and deposited in Parliament. Social measures were then taken against this. If there is uncertainty and action today about........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's no text yet. Read the notification, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of budgetary control. After consulting the Group of Ten, the Minister for Labour submits a draft law to the Council of Ministers. It will consist of, on the one hand, general rules and rules directly applicable by undertakings and, on the other hand, a menu of measures which can be activated sectorally. We will first negotiate with the social partners and then a draft law will be discussed in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u10	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u11	That is what the notification says, Mr Calvo! Read the notification! All four majority parties have committed themselves to this! That is the path we will follow! Prime Minister, how will you and the government organise discussions on manoeuvrable work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, if we are to carry out these reforms, it is because they are of general interest; reforms that have their first results in terms of employment, purchasing power and business creation. The results are here. They can be consulted outside of the intoxication that is regularly done by the opposition. We want to bring these reforms to an end, with that majority. We also want to continue to consult, but what we no longer accept is trade union violence, especially that resulting from the socialist union. In a few months, they burned cars, blocked highways, injured police officers, broken and sacked a ministerial cabinet, put pressure on the TEC drivers who wanted to work, going so far as to dismantle the bus batteries to prevent them from taking the road, put pressure and threatened prison guards who wanted to work. Do I also have to talk about language violence, the qualifications of "shit game" – excuse me for a little – in Mr. Goblet's head to talk about the members of the government? The President of the CGSP tells us that he will implement guerrilla means, if necessary, if necessary. A gallows mounted on the Place de Mons, under the windows of the mayor of Mons! Does he often allow himself to set up gallows on his Grand Place? Did you condemn him? And your elected officials, your bishop, Mr. Sakas, and your municipal councillor PS Meunier who were posed before the gallows to which the effigy of our Prime Minister hanged? They did not condemn; they laid in front! Is that the Socialist Party? Is he so afraid of the PTB that he runs on the ground by putting his ethic in his pocket? Prime Minister, the Belgians, whether in the North or the South, are tired of seeing their freedom of movement confiscated, their freedom to work. I ask you, Prime Minister, to ensure that this violence and savagery do not go unpunished. We want to talk. We are a majority who want to remain the hand out in spite of the excesses mentioned. I ask you to set out your plans for consultation for the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, the blockade was complete last week. Since then, the situation has worsened. It has become bogged down with outbursts and provocations on both sides: wild strikes, sabotages, the boss of a union that can't imagine that the students can't find an alternative to go to their examination, the Minister De Croo who is calling in the middle of a strike for the privatization of the SNCB, the CGSP who organises in Mons the false hanging of the Prime Minister, the boss of the SNCB who refuses to freeze the famous circular against the railwaymen or the president of the N-VA who compares the unions with terrorists. So many ideological positions on both sides! It's an infernal escalation. It is not by rotting the lives of commuters, workers or students that we will improve the lives and daily lives of Belgians! I would like here, Mr Prime Minister, to be the spokesman for a silent majority, a silent majority of citizens who, today, are the victims of these overbiddings; a silent majority who awaits only one thing: to regain serenity, dialogue, calmness, a sense of the general interest; a silent majority who wants to make this country work; a silent majority who agrees to move forward on flexibility, but otherwise, by being attentive to family realities and personal realities. Yes, Prime Minister, it is possible to break out of the current deadlock, but for this, it is absolutely necessary to put in place a truce, a moratorium on both the trade unions' side to stop and freeze these strikes, but also on the government's side to freeze all the latest extremely provocative measures. Prime Minister, this is your responsibility. Are you going to commit yourself, with the government as a whole, to a moratorium, a truce, and are you going to call on the unions to do the same in order to return to the path of dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, the second speaker this afternoon has exceeded his time, but I thought for a moment: I would not give him my two minutes' speaking time, because I can hardly imagine better propaganda for this government than his speech. He has sketched here the picture of the non-change. He has sketched the image of the social model that this government is about to oppose, because he is also a wonderful illustration of the beautiful Flemish proverb: if the fox preaches the passion, farmer, watch your geese. It is, of course, godly to call for dialogue here, to call for unity here, to be called to concert by a representative of a political party who has specialised for months in an extreme form of disinformation of public opinion, and who even with his group in this hemisphere, with the regularity of a clock, has applause when the extreme left attacks the government here and thus gives the impression that they are one front against the forces of change. The forces of change, which say, for example, that we need to create jobs. This week we got a very interesting picture in the media: on the one hand, an article that says that this government has created 65 000 jobs, and yet this government is represented by the Prime Minister, on the other hand, a picture of the reaction of some people in which a picture of the person who created 65 000 jobs has to be burned up. That is the comparison between, on the one hand, working in a constructive way and, on the other hand, permanently saying no to any creative way of looking to the future. Prime Minister, the bilan of creating private jobs for those who are now advocating consultation is very small. Today, for the first time in years, we have the highest private employment we have known for the long term. The only private employment created by Mr Di Rupo is in the sector of speech writers in the hemisphere, because he has given an extensive reading here, but I have not seen any alternative. That is why, Mr Prime Minister, we are calling for consultation with those responsible for implementing this policy, after Parliament has drawn up the outlines of the policy. However, let us place the responsibilities where they are. The social dialogue has the room it deserves, but the policies must and will be drawn up in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u15	Prime Minister, I have been following the debate for half an hour and I feel one emotion: substitute shame. Shame on the claims war, the accusations that fly back and forth and the total lack of feeling with the mood of the population. The population has had enough of this. Enough. Enough of the blames, enough of the wild strikes, enough of the attacks on civil society, enough of the polarisation that is already tangible within the majority. Enough! Enough of the manifest unreasonableness! Me too, I didn't go into politics to pursue a conflict strategy, to perform a show here every week. There's the laugh. Even we can't listen to each other for a moment. We can't even afford that respect anymore. That's the mistake. I have gone into politics to make constructive proposals, to find solutions, to take responsibility with my party and my group and to work on this day after day. Soon we will visit Minister Peeters to present one of our works to him, and a little later another piece of work will follow: first on workable work, then on circular economy. That is our job as politicians. I do not want this constructive attitude, the sense of an honorable compromise without breaking into the ground of certain political parties and spokesmen as well as certain militants of the unions. I was genuinely shocked this week when I saw a picture of our Prime Minister being hanged at the demonstrations. [[Applause]] That's what you're applauding for. Will you also applaud for this? I was equally shocked when I saw on social media a beautiful pamphlet by Mrs. De Coninck about union terrorism. I was shocked back then! But then you don't applaud! That's what this is about. We must get out of this impasse, out of this hopeless bid, the outcome of which is determined only by the strongest, out of that bully strategy of bending or bursting that you have made your own. Mr Prime Minister, I come to my point. Now we are in times when we need to get away from party and Parliament, where people outside expect us to do that, in order to restore serenity. I am not asking you to leave your ideology behind; I am asking you to stop this bid, in advance, from the political parties. That is what those doers in our society are asking of us today, people who pay their taxes faithfully, who want to make efforts but who also want to see justice and see everyone, including this Parliament, jump in the bathtub. That's gonna have to come from all of us. Prime Minister, how are you going to ensure that that message is understood in advance within your majority?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u16	Prime Minister, obviously you have a big problem! You cannot convince the population of the validity of your ideas, worthy of the nineteenth century, of oubollige ideën van deze regering. Last weekend, by the way, a Flemish newspaper held a poll to find out what the Flemings, Walen and Brusselsers thought of your corny ideas. They were thinking about asking those questions. I'm gonna take a few questions from that poll. People were asked whether they agreed that the government's efforts were fairly distributed. 28.2 % agreed. This means that 62 percent of people do not agree. It has not yet been done, a second question has been asked. (Rumbling) What did I say?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u17	It's a miscalculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u18	71.8%. Second question. I agree with the government's ruling on general savings, which is far too much for me to accept. 58% think you're going too far. The third question concerns the reform of the 38-hour week by Mr Peeters. With the ruling on the reform of the 38-hour working week, I think a good thing is said to be 40.7 %. On all the measures, people say they do not agree. Fourth question. With the ruling, I believe that the government does not listen enough to the workers. 59.7 % agrees. Almost 60% of people find that you don't listen enough to workers. Last week, you said you were reaching out to social consultation. What's happened since last Thursday? On Friday, Mr. Bacquelaine intervened by saying that careers would be mixed at the pension level and that pensions would be reduced for officials who would be appointed later. On Saturday, Mr Peeters made an exit to say that wages must be linked to productivity and not to seniority. Tuesdays, Mr. De Croo's making an exit to say that the railway would have to be privatized. On Tuesday, Mr Jambon intervened on the status of firefighters. You, Mr Michel, were interviewed by a Flemish television channel and you said: "Concessions are not my logic. I am ready, as part of the consultation process, to look at what improves and strengthens the government's action." Prime Minister, you're saying that you're just going to discuss the things that strengthen your action! It is very clear, you are not interested in consultation, you want to run like a bulldozer because social democracy does not interest you! Colleagues, this is the issue today. Is there still a place for social democracy in Belgium? You want to push for provocation, you push for chaos for this country! People will not be allowed to do so, in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the various points made by arguments, and I will try to do so calmly and calmly. I believe that parliamentary democracy justifies this ability to agree with one another and to respond to each other's concerns. The first point I want to point out is the following. We are aware, I am aware, that the reforms involve a number of concerns for some of the population. We listen to people's concerns. I am also aware that it is crucial to have an opportunity to explain properly what this government intends to do, and what the foundations are, the basis, of our strategic projects for the future. This is obviously an important point: to listen to each other and to dialogue. In the same way, I want to point out once again, as I have already done here, that we recognize the right to strike. But today we are facing wild strikes and abuse of this right. Indeed, the right to strike is limited by the freedom of those who do not strike, to move, to study or to move. I would also like to point out, as some have done in the majority and also in the opposition – and I thank them for this – that, for this government and, I hope, for a significant part of this Parliament, it is not acceptable that the right to strike be diverted by acts of violence. When we hit the ministries or the SNCB infrastructure, and therefore endanger the safety of the users, when we commit such violent acts, there is an individual responsibility. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would add that I also regret the situation in this assembly. One may disagree with a strategy, one may disagree with the means deemed necessary for the success of the policy, but one must nevertheless try to accept reality as much as possible and not close eyes to a number of clear results. Yes, we made difficult decisions a few months ago. It was not simple and it is our responsibility to explain the meaning of these decisions. But I want to see with you and no one can dispute it here, if it is a few moments of good faith: the number of bankruptcies has decreased dramatically. Yesterday, the Institute of National Accounts - not the government - announced 65,000 jobs created in recent months. Mr Laaouej, what you are saying is false, and I will answer that. The Plan Office announced 65,000 jobs with a significant flat. The Plan Office expected higher economic growth than is known, with three quarters remaining until the end of 2016. There are 65,000 jobs that have already been created today! That's the reality! This is called a flagrant misinformation offence. And this more caricatured disinformation cocktail feeds the anguish of our fellow citizens! I come to my answers to the questions asked. Mr Nollet, Mrs Fonck, you were right to ask what we will do to bring about a serene situation again. Well, it is crucial for us to remain particularly committed to positive and constructive social dialogue. That is what we want to do! Very specific, this evening Minister Peeters will meet with the trade unions with a view to modernising the labour market. That's a logical process. A few weeks ago, the government set out a few political orientations with a view to modernising our labour market. There is room, under the responsibility of the relevant ministers, to listen to the social partners. During the summer, in July, we will have the opportunity to consider in the Council of Ministers how it is possible to take account of the constructive and positive proposals made by the social partners. This shows respect for parliamentary democracy, on the one hand, and also the opportunity for social democracy to improve decisions, on the other. That's what we're trying to do. Another example is the reform of pensions. We have indeed taken a decision of principle on mixed pensions. It is now up to Minister Bacquelaine, in the context of social dialogue with the social partners, to examine how we can implement this decision with respect for social dialogue, taking into account social dialogue. Minister De Block is on health care every day, every week, in consultation with health sector actors, to see how the best decision can be made. So I am responding to the inquiries that are made. We are mobilized at 1 000 per cent to continue the work, to continue implementing the reforms that are essential. We are 100% mobilized to give a real chance to social dialogue to improve our decisions. We plead for the responsibility of each of the social partners who must also participate in this effort. We condemn the violence. We condemn slipping. We call for serenity. We call for avoiding escalation. That goes without saying. In a word, I want to say it with great calm and serenity: this government has set a course. We know where we want to go. I repeat once again, as I will repeat many times, that there is room for the social partners around a table to initiate these reforms and ensure that they produce results. It's a government that knows where it's going. It is a government that is truly social, not with slogans, with decisions to create jobs and guarantee the financing of solidarity!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u20	Prime Minister, with the same calmness that you called at the beginning of your answer, I would like to ask you one more question. I know that the Rules of Procedure do not allow this. Prime Minister, at the bottom of yourself, don't you feel like you're going around a little bit? "I'm 1 000 per cent mobilized." We heard the same thing a week, 15 days or a month ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u21	It's called constancy, Mr. Nollet! Constancy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u22	Mr President, since I asked a question, the Prime Minister answered me and I thank him for that. It's called constancy. Let me tell you that it is also called being bounded and not hearing what is required in order to find a built-up solution. Mr Peeters will receive and listen to the union partners tonight. No! No! We need to build a solution. We have to open the game. That's your job. That is what is expected of you today. It's not just about saying "I'm mobilized." We know that. We hope so. Beyond being mobilized, what is your strategy? What is your new proposal? Rather than say you're going to go on because you know it's okay. No, I don't! Listen! Hear! And change a little at a time! Get out of this blind austerity framework. That's just what you're asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, we can hear the figures you mentioned, but it is still the case that at present our country's economic growth is below the euro area average. Once you have regained superior economic growth, we will be able to discuss it again. But to return to the subject we are interested in today, it is somewhat disappointing that you are calling for serenity without taking a step, without taking any initiative. As far as I'm concerned, I pleaded for everyone to take a step, both on the union side and on your side. We are really waiting for you to act, to take a concrete initiative. To pretend that the situation is not degraded and that we are not close to social breakdown is really ignoring reality. Prime Minister, as I said in my speech, I really plead for calm. But by the way you act, by the way you respond, you actually stir up a protest that is seen in the South and the Central of the country, but that you will also see in the North of the country. Thankfully, I adjure you: assume your role as Prime Minister, take initiatives, and let us return to serenity together!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u24	Prime Minister, I have obviously not heard you speak on the idea of the weekend. You are like those who know the prayer of Sunday, but forget it the week! [[Laughs]] More seriously, if you have spoken of a referendum, it is because you perceive very well, that beyond what can, in fact, be regarded as excesses coming from certain movements in society, there is a deep concern. This concern also exists among those who do not strike. It also exists among those who want to work, but who know that the income from their work no longer guarantees them the dignity of life to which they can claim. Today, this is the conviction perceived by an immense majority of citizens. And if you don't want to hear that, it's because your majority made an economic policy choice based exclusively on the competitiveness of businesses. And that was not to be overlooked. But today the OECD comes to say – what it could have said earlier, because it itself has pushed for regrettable unilateral choices – that economic recovery in Europe cannot be achieved without supporting growth through domestic demand, i.e. by increasing labour incomes. And that's not the tax shift, Mr. Miller! Go collect their worksheets from citizens, ask them how they end their months and you'll see what their life difficulties are. You're out of reality, Mr. Miller! As long as governments in Europe are not aware, what Germany has just done, what the United Kingdom has just done, that growth must be revived by increasing net wages, far beyond what you are doing, until you have taken this step, people's dissatisfaction will continue to grow and the referendum will be held in the elections. But I think it will be with a different sanction than the one you're waiting for!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u25	Mr President, it took about two years for the former Prime Minister of our country to take part in a political debate. I must tell you that I was delighted. But that aloofness is a bit in contrast to what happened two months after the formation of the government. Then Mr Di Rupo took the lead in a demonstration which called for a number of measures which were still taken under his term of office. For example, there was the degressivity of unemployment benefits and the wage freeze, which was unilaterally decreed. The cancellation of working time is a decision taken by Mr Di Rupo, whom I remember very well, and published here by the Prime Minister. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if, after two months, you try to take the lead in the social resistance against the government, when you appear on television and you apologize for the measures you yourself have taken in the government, then I say to you very calmly and very quietly: the predicate statesman is no longer spent on you. You have indirectly spread the bed of extreme left. Now listen carefully to this analysis: this way you make extremely left-wing dormant rich. I can tell you that the people always prefer the original to the copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u27	Mrs. Onkelinx always screams when you tell the truth! Oh, there! What a tragedy! Let me give you a second example. I will give you a second example of political incivism. This weekend, he says he's gonna give us a scoop. A former Socialist Party minister put in difficulty at that time a project of a company rated on the stock exchange. Yes, he did!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u29	Would you like me to explain the difference between Mr Labille and an average parliamentarian from here? The difference is 50 warrants. 50 mandates, that is the difference between Mr Labille and a typical Member of Parliament. It's political incivism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u30	You must conclude, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u31	I will conclude, Mr President. Reforms are taking place throughout the European Union. What the socialists are concerned with in the government are supporting these reforms. Where the Socialists are in the opposition, they are trying to turn it into firewood. It's a matter of political opportunism. Can Mrs. Onkelinx do anything other than get upset and interrupt?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u32	One more sentence, Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u33	Do you mind? It's amazing. The political debate is contradictory, Mrs Onkelinx, and you have to listen when I have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u34	Now it's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u35	Mr President, I am making a point of this now. I do not think it is a style that, when a speaker is on the floor and has the floor, a gang of shouting and screaming parliamentarians tries to make any debate impossible. It's not like that in a parliament. You are not at the house of the people. You're here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is logical that, in times like this, not only in our country but elsewhere, the social debate is sometimes intense. That makes sense, because there are a lot of interests at stake. However, may I make an appeal, perhaps in vain, to all of you, majority or opposition? Milder our tone. Let's stop hitting people against each other. It doesn't do anything. I would like to make the same request to the ten social partners. Stop your rhetoric of the last few months, dare to take risks and go to your supporters to convince them that reforms will only succeed if they are balanced. Finally, Prime Minister, and I would also like to address the Minister for Work, sit down today with the social partners, the workers, and sit down with the employers around the table with them in the next few days. They know that the aim of the reforms has a perspective, in particular to ensure a future for our families and entrepreneurs in our country. That's where everyone's gonna have to put water on the wine. It's always been that way, and it'll always be that way. Reforms without support will never succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u37	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We were able to appreciate the measure, the balance, the willingness to continue to produce together the reforms essential for our country and our growth, by reaching out to the social partners in the name of consultation. You have also been very clear about the trade union violence that Belgians have been experiencing for a number of weeks. No impunity for these acts of violence! Mr Di Rupo, I adjure you to assume your responsibilities as President of the Socialist Party. Take your distance from this trade union violence, distance yourself from a joint action that is tainted by this repeated trade union violence and by these wild strikes! Finally, it is clear that the Belgians have had enough and want them to be more guaranteed their freedom to go to their place of work. We want to give them that guarantee for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u38	Prime Minister, "don't bend", "it's not a union that's going to run the country": these are words that your majority constantly repeats. Prime Minister, we cannot reform either without listening, with brutality. Nor can we reform people against each other. We can't reform people. You're engaged, you say, in dialogue. However, dialogue and consultation are not limited to chatting with trade unions. They also assume that they will be offered a real negotiating space. The right example is certainly in terms of employment, since it is possible to take more balanced measures while allowing significant progress in modernising work. Some colleagues have shouted in this House. But think of this silent majority who doesn't scream, who has enough and who is the victim of these sterile escalations and blockages! Today, Prime Minister, the urgency is to look to the future. This requires, first of all, a return to the path of serenity and dialogue. To do this, I repeat, we need a moratorium and a truce. At the CDH, we are part of this dynamic which requires a freeze of strikes as well as the latest measures. Symbolically, I'd like to give you a white flag. Prime Minister, I hope you will take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u39	Mr Dewael has just explained the Unkelinx Act, namely: the more the truth is spoken, the more it begins to shout and scream. If that's true, then I think there's a way to shut her up. Let us read a leaflet from the FGTB, there is very little truth in it and that will certainly calm her down and calm her down. Mrs. Fonck, I'm very pleased with your gesture. After all, this white flag indicates what it is really about with the demand for a moratorium, in particular stop your policy. That is, of course, what we will not do under any circumstances. If people are prepared to take part in the operation that this government is engaged in within a concerting sphere, with critical questions, then I believe that we should not only want to enter into this dialogue but also engage in it. Let us be quite clear, however, that this government's project has a content and will not be able to lead to dialogue with the most extremist forces in this society. If we strive to do so, we shall come to a standstill and a status quo. Then we come to the white flag that we do not want to raise under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u40	Late moments after a call are then given such an introduction which I am glad to distance myself from. There is no one here who looks to whose care you have taken away by attacking certain persons again; the people for whom it is about have no message. We are free to discuss projects, but please do not remain stuck in one's own great equality, with terms that are not respectful, with which one cannot have a proper debate because the mistrust is banished from the beginning and one no longer gets out of the argument war. Those who want to implement real reforms are putting them on the track with a language that is not offensive, in a way that can bring people around the table without being pre-empted. We are certainly overwhelmed when we see this, this silent majority, those people who are genuinely concerned today about the path that this country and our politics are taking. We are the representatives of the people, that is what we are called. People expect us to represent them, but they have not seen that today. Today there is aversion that goes towards indifference. It's that call I wanted to make to you today. It is that feeling that I wanted to give along, but today, unfortunately, many have missed it once again. Yes, there is support for reform. Seven out of ten citizens are now asking for a mobility budget. Eight out of ten citizens demand a contribution from the greatest capabilities. People are asking for a different approach to our energy policy. Can we discuss this with each other, across party boundaries and across the different parliaments? There's a consultative committee. To work with the prime ministers, use this with a Flemish government which reflects the same majority but which has a different type of energy policy from the federal government. That's what people want to see; they want things to turn around, that you talk to each other, that there's another perspective and that you represent them. I missed that feeling again today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u41	Prime Minister, you have not answered the question of the real scope for current negotiations, whereas, and I quote, you want to take only what strengthens the government's action. This is not the conception of a discussion in democracy. When we talk around a table, we say, "Here, we have room for manoeuvre." What you are saying clearly to all the social partners is that you are not interested in what they are saying. What you're saying is, "It's taking it or leaving it, we're going to go for it." This weekend, five ministers of this government made new exits and put oil on fire, while complicated discussions are under way between the social partners. You could think of a little miscommunication. When Mr. De Croo is issuing his idea of privatizing the railway, is that a mistake? I am convinced that this is not a timing error. The purpose of this government is to provoke a rotten situation. Your political goal today, and the N-VA set the tone, is to put out of the race any form of social democracy in this country. And for that, you are provoking on provocation, as we have seen in this House today. Prime Minister, don't play with fire! Respect the social democracy of this country. Stop saying that, because people voted for your parties two years ago, you have the legitimacy to flout all forms of social democracy in this country, for points that were not even included in your programmes. Open up real negotiations, because the polarization you put in our society really risks... This social polarization does not make me laugh, sir of the N-VA! Let us give way to social democracy! Let room for real negotiations and stop provoking!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u42	Mr Minister, last week the labour court in Ghent considered that in the case where an employee who had applied but was not invited to a meeting because, according to the e-mail he had received, he was too old, there was discrimination and that this should not be done. It is therefore discrimination in our country to refuse to allow someone to apply solely because of their age. There are hundreds of such examples in Belgium. You say employees have to work longer, but when they go to a pattern and ask for a job, they say they're too old. So that's discrimination. I then thought that the Minister of Work, since there is a ruling from the labour court saying that such practices are discriminatory, would confirm that discrimination should not be allowed. But what does our Minister of Work say? However, he admits that discrimination should not be allowed and at the same time proposes reducing the wages of older workers and linking them to productivity, as this would eliminate discrimination. Mr Peeters, the fact that you want to link workers' wages to productivity is a very old idea; it was also done in the 19th century; it was then called pay per piece. It was the piece salary, the productivity-related salary. This is nothing new. That's 150 years old. It's old, it's dusty. What are you telling me today that you are coming with modern reforms? It's old times, all of it. Think in an open minded way! Think a little modern! Don't come back with 19th-century ideas! Minister, my question is very clear. Do you intend today to confirm your intention to link wages to productivity rather than seniority? In this way, you will reduce the wages of older workers, who you will push to work up to 67 years of age and whose productivity will decrease because they will be exhausted. Are you going to continue in this direction or are you going to reverse your reform? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u43	Mr Hedebouw, that was a testament to how people can be put on the wrong track. I do not blame you, but it was also underlined just now how one can ask very provocative and challenging questions, even misleading ones, and turn things around.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u44	Firstly, I have made it quite clear and I would like to emphasise once again that age-based discrimination is not allowed. My fellow Secretary of State has also said this, and I repeat it here once again in full clarity. Thank God we have an anti-discrimination law, which criminalizes an employer's refusal on the basis of age. Fortunately, that is now clear, with a court ruling. I hope that many employers have heard it well. Secondly, Mr Hedebouw, you must not mislead people by saying that we are going back to the past. On the contrary, the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, in Geneva, is discussing the future of work. What will be the future of our jobs? At OECD level, the question of what the work will look like is being discussed. It is being discussed at European level and, thank God, we have incorporated it into our coalition agreement. It says that, after consultation with the social partners, we do not want you to repeat the same thing again in the shortest time in front of your constituents, because we know that your communication is about to come up with a new career model. You know the coalition agreement. It also states that we need to adapt wages more closely to competences and productivity. Is that new? No, that is not new, because my predecessor, Mrs De Coninck, rightly wrote this in her policy paper in 2013, referring to the OECD, which finds that our country is characterised by a high age tension in wages and a low chance of recruiting 50+. That is what my colleague has rightly referred to. We also received an opinion from the High Council for Employment in 2014. It also contains a nuance which is completely strange to you, namely that a link between wage growth and seniority affects the employment of older workers. For the sake of clarity, it is said that it is not only about seniority, but also about other elements, such as early retirement, inadequate continuing vocational training and low job mobility. However, the issue of seniority-related wage increases must not be ignored. That is to say, Mr Hedebouw, you are completely mistaken. The debate is very delicate. I am convinced that we must do this with the social partners, but it is absolutely wrong not to engage in the debate. I hope that you will do the same and think about it, without resorting to reactions dating back to the nineteenth century.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u45	Mr Peeters, there is no need to be angry, there is a debate here. As a minister, you leave a little room for the debate. A little calm on the right wing may be, this is the place for the democratic and social debate. One would think that there are real activists here; let's argue a little calmly. Mr Peeters, first of all, when it was stated in the Hautekiet broadcast that there is discrimination, you replied that you no longer want discrimination and will therefore reduce wages. That's just your answer. That's point one. I think the ideological weight is great because you put dozens of communicators to try to make it look like old ideas are modern. The question you're asking is the productivity-related salary, that is, a salary that's related to what you're doing at work, that's exactly the salary formation framework of the past century. That was to say, you produce so many pounds, you're paid as much. So your idea is quite old-fashioned! She's 150 years old! And you pay dozens of communicators who will put a little bit of Photoshop, a little bit of color. That's a modern idea? But not at all! You are the as van de oubollige ideën.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u46	Now you have to finish, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u47	Finally, I address myself to CD&V, the family party, the party that strives for cohesion. Such a reform will increase competition between generations. The young guys in the companies will compete with the elderly. Where is the social face of the government? Let's get some cooling off and build a social society together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u48	Deputy Prime Minister, in your house, it's almost a Pavlovian reflex. They say "public enterprise" and you say "privatization". If the consequences weren't so serious, we could almost laugh. But the summit, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, was reached last week when, with regard to the abyssal difficulties that the SNCB is facing today, you replied: "Let's get private and everything will be better!" Now, you know better than anyone that the 3 billion savings requested from SNCB are at the root of the strikes and are now making workers desperation. Deputy Prime Minister, ideologues, it's you! The Conservatives are you! You're going back to Thatcher and Reagan! The PS Group is not afraid of the change and we are not opposed to the takeover of the Dutch post, but to one condition: that the post remain a public undertaking, i.e. that the State remains a shareholder in it at more than 50%. But you want to privatize to privatize! What is a company that is privatized? This is the reduction of the quality of the public service, without a management contract, with a precarisation of employment, with a risk of disappearance of the decision-making centre. The government has never been transparent about its intentions vis-à-vis bpost. However, you have a duty of transparency, both at the level of citizens and at the level of workers. Deputy Prime Minister, when was a mandate given to bpost to negotiate the purchase of the Dutch post? What was its scope? Is there an agreement within the government to privatize bpost before the end of the legislature? Has the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement been mandated by the government, as you announced on May 8, 2015, to assess the opportunity to disengage the bpost state? If so, what was the result of this evaluation? What are the government's intentions with respect to SNCB? Is it really about privatizing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this happened on Friday with the potential merger between Bpost and PostNL. Too bad there's an understatement here, because bpost is a highly listed company, Mrs. Lalieux. It must be able to evolve with the market, a market of fewer letters and more packages. E-commerce is everywhere. Bpost with PostNL seemed like the perfect symbiosis. It is a missed opportunity to see all these Dutch vans replaced in our street image by Belgian ones, especially after our government gave the Belgian e-commerce a big push in the back. It would not only have made bpost stronger, it would have mainly created more jobs, including for low-skilled people. We could have made that effort, Mrs Lalieux. But the deal was torpedoed. From an unexpected angle? I don't think so. Of course, it is no secret to all of us that former Minister Labille is in favour of a collective economy and of state-owned companies. Let us be clear: bpost is not a state-owned company from the 19th and 20th centuries, Mrs Lalieux, it is a modern publicly traded company where management and management are the responsibility of the board of directors, not of the government, not of Parliament, and certainly not of a former minister. The fact that this former minister is deliberately and unsolicited leaking crucial information, even in order to cause social unrest, that Mrs Lalieux, is crapulous. Minister, I have two questions for you. Can you give us more information on the deal that jumped off? Will bpost continue to seek synergies to strengthen market position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u50	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the events that took place last Friday. A former minister, who has about 50 mandates, as Mr Dewael recalled, spoke on the radio saying: "In a short time, bpost will lose its status as a public enterprise and the state will sell some of its shares". As a result, bpost action was suspended and ongoing negotiations with PostNL failed. It seems inconceivable that Mr Labille, a member of the political bureau of the PS, with his fifty terms, loses as much the notion of the State and of the propriety of the public enterprise as bpost, by disclosing information which, at the very least, had to remain confidential. On both sides of the Belgian-Dutch border, he murmurs that this flight was clearly instrumentalised in order to trigger a strike in the bpost services. The matter was quite clear and thus announced the failure of the ongoing negotiations. In which country are we witnessing such sabotage? We had sabotage on the SNCB lines. Here we have economic sabotage, organized in contempt, as some say, of the law. I don't dare venture into this case, but I think there's something to dig into. How can we imagine that a former minister could encourage companies, for which he had previously been in charge, to strike? This is unacceptable! Minister, can you give us some details about the negotiations that were under way with PostNL? I also recall that the CEO of bpost said that such statements were totally displaced. Can you clarify this issue and recall the immediate negative consequences of these statements? Finally, as Minister of Public Enterprises, do you not think that in the near future such statements will have a negative impact on new negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u51	Mr Minister, last Friday, negotiations have intensified on the purchase of the Dutch post by bpost. As a result of these rumours, you said on the same day - I almost want to say my hand on the heart - that "the Belgian state is today the majority shareholder and we have no intention of selling our shares". Last Monday, it was reported that, in the end, the operation had not been possible and that, had it been done, the State's participation would have fallen to about 38 per cent, thereby de facto losing the State's majority position. Minister, why do you stand up to the public status of bpost? The purchase of the Dutch post could have been economically meaningful, that's right. But why take advantage of it to privatize? Why conduct this ideological struggle with so much fervour, as we have denounced for months? Is it the fear of seeing the word "business" associated with the word "public"? That would be a real shame, for in a modern democracy we must be able to have efficient public enterprises that deliver quality service to our citizens and also in the capacity to provide sustainable employment. In fact, minister, bpost is one of the best examples of this reality. Today it is a company whose satisfaction rate among our citizens reached 88% in 2014. It is a company that now has significant financial results and a constructive social climate. Why do you want to privatize her? Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you not only about your vision of the public status of bpost but also about the negotiations that took place this weekend, so that you can make it clear to Parliament today. What would have been the impact of the acquisition of the Dutch post on employment and bpost activities in Belgium? Furthermore, at what level would the Belgian State's participation in bpost have been located after the transaction? Do you confirm that this would have been below 50%? What did you negotiate at that time in terms of status for the 25 000 workers in the group?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u52	Minister, there are three aspects to this issue. The first aspect, already mentioned by colleagues, is that of leaks. I have a little thing to give you to avoid leaks, an unstoppable technique. It's called transparency! Why can't users and bpost workers, in such an important case, give their opinion? Why aren't they associated? Another problem is the operation itself. You see only the aspect of the OPA of a multinational over another company, but also the question of the share of capital that the state will retain. That's essential! A third aspect is profitability. Indeed, we know that bpost is much more profitable than the Dutch post, but at what price? At the cost of abolishing half of the bpost staff: 20 000 jobs were abolished. At the cost of closing more than half of the post offices. And at the price, that is the case, of rising tariffs, because the price of Belgian stamps is among the highest in Europe. My questions are as follows. In terms of transparency, why not involve workers, their representatives and representatives of users? Are there any other transactions in progress? What was the mechanism? If the project had been successful, what would have been the State's share in bpost or in the new group? Would the universal service have been maintained? How many jobs were envisaged in this operation? Finally, would the Belgian post imitate the Netherlands by hiring part-time workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u53	Mr President, Minister, your former Minister, Mr Labille, has expertly torpedoed the cooperation between Bpost and PostNL in the old PS tradition by leaking information into the press at a crucial moment when the advanced negotiations ended. It's another economic sabotage. Just now we could hear from Mrs Onkelinx: 'Il a bien fait.' She's very proud that he did. Mrs Lijnen, the reason is not only that former Minister Labille is in favour of state-owned companies. Nor is the reason why the PS does not like the focus of our companies to move abroad. After all, the list of Belgian companies whose headquarters have moved to Paris is too long to mention within the time frame of Question Time. It is only a question of abhorring economic alliances with the Netherlands. It is better to be bankrupt than Dutch, for decades the motto of the PS, even if you are laughing at it now, Mrs Lalieux. Think of the repeated sabotage of your party of Sabena, who wanted to cooperate with KLM. The PS prefers to see massive job losses rather than the horror that a company would become modern and efficient, or, worse still, that you would hear Dutch speak in the less politicized boards of government. Minister, we have already heard a lot of details about this failed deal. A lot of questions have been asked. In such deals, you should not only guarantee employment and good working conditions. The fact that the majority share of the Belgian State would fall below 50% in bpost also has other consequences. One of these consequences has not yet been mentioned, in particular the disappearance of language requirements. My specific question is whether in the almost completed deal with PostNL there were guarantees on the language obligations. Will you ensure that the Dutch language services are guaranteed in Flanders and that bilingual services are provided in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stress enough that the time of the Directorate-General for Posts, which Mrs Lalieux remembers with nostalgia, is far behind us. The old, archaic Directie der Posterijen is today a performant company where the service to the customer is central. It has become a company that is growing again in the e-commerce market, thanks to the commitment of so many motivated employees that put customer satisfaction at the centre. Moreover, they do so in a climate of social peace. The route that has been taken there is absolutely magnificent. The roles were reversed this time. A few years ago, the Dutch postal services wanted to take over our post. Last week it was the other way around. Bpost has become the strong player and wanted to take over the much larger Dutch neighbor. That would have been a very good thing, ladies and gentlemen, for the shareholders, we are all taxpayers who own part of this public sector and for the staff. Staff benefit fully from a bpost that is stronger on the e-commerce market. This would provide an ideal scale to compete effectively in that market with the big players genre DHL and associates. The takeover operation has been led very professionally and discreetly, until this weekend. To former PS Minister Labille, to the great satisfaction of Mrs Onkelinx apparently, sabotaged the place with a well-targeted quote. Of course, that wasn't a slip of the tongue. He said, "I'm gonna give you a scoop." That wasn't an accident the course. It's even said: "Il a bien fait." Ladies and gentlemen, that is irresponsible. This is opposition against the shareholders/taxpayers and the staff of that company. This is opposition in such a way that it seems that it is no longer possible to do so in Parliament. This is the technique of the burned earth. This is destruction of shareholder value. Minister, I do not know the motivation of the person concerned and I do not really care about his motivation. Was it because of his nineteenth century vision of public enterprises that he wants to re-create political administrations? Was it because he wanted to uphold the tradition of the sale of our crown jewels to France? I don't care. However, what interests me, Minister, is to know what you will do about this. Will you file a complaint? Will you be a bourgeois party on behalf of all the corrupted taxpayers who have had to watch a miserable former Minister Labille destroy shareholders' value and in fact seriously harm us all?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u55	Mr President, I shall begin with two observations. Today, bpost is one of the strongest postal companies in Europe. I would also like to commend the efforts made by all the workers and the management of this company. bpost is one of the largest employers in Belgium, but its sector of activity is changing. The volume of letters decreases by 5% each year while the volume of parcels increases by 15% each year. So it's perfectly normal for a company to be proactive. I have indeed asked the management to consider the future of the company and to develop a strategy to ensure that bpost can remain relevant to our residents and our economy. As far as the details of a potential deal with PostNL are concerned, I cannot give you details because there is no agreement. Without agreement, it's impossible to give details. I didn't conduct the negotiations, nor did the government. It's management. It is not the government that negotiates. I don't consider bpost to be my sandbox. What I do know is what mandate I gave to the board. I've asked you to consider reinforcements under three conditions. The first element is that the rights acquired in relation to labour relations are guaranteed. It is very clearly stipulated in the law in 1991 that I amended in this Parliament. The acquired rights are concrete. Every person who tries to sow confusion makes pure misinformation: the status of the worker would not change if the status of the enterprise changed. A second element is that there must be an industrial logic. That makes sense. It must be a future project to guarantee employment as much as possible. A third element is that a transaction must ensure that the company is economically anchored. There has never been a pure sale at any time. The criticism of the left surprises me a little. And I quote Paul Magnette: "I have no ideological blockage on this. I'm not a 51% guy. It is quite possible to sell a share." Paul Magnette said this in the newspaper La Libre Belgique. In 2013, he was talking about a pure sale. For once, this does not happen often, so I agree with the PS. There's no need for blocking. And what we certainly don't need in this country, and certainly not at the moment, is that a former minister sabotages plans for the future of one of the biggest employers in this country with one reason that is a political reason! Koen Van Gerven, the CEO of bpost, called these statements irresponsible and misplaced. I agree with him. That statement was pure sabotage. Just as some trade unions sabotaged the tracks, in order to compromise safety, that statement was pure sabotage. That is the only word that can be given. I have indeed spoken with the Minister of Finance about the dossier. He has confirmed to me that the FSMA has initiated an investigation. The FSMA has sent a letter to the person concerned with a list of questions to answer. Bpost has also confirmed to me in the coming days that I will transfer a list of all insiders, of all those who were aware of the conversations. I'll leave it to the FSMA to see what measures are needed. To conclude, I would like to talk about the intentions and all kinds of declarations of intent that are being made about me. I want to be very clear. Sacks below 50 % shareholdership is not taboo. However, it is not a fetish either, it is not a reason in itself. It is an opportunity, which exists, and which might allow bpost to strengthen itself internationally and become a major player in Europe, to offer better guarantees to workers and to better ensure that jobs are created in our country in a market that is in full swing. We do not think in taboos, we do not think in fetishes, but we think in economic logic, which is good for all employees of bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u56	Deputy Prime Minister, I agree with you on one thing. Indeed, bpost is a very beautiful and strong company. But thanks to what and who? You have a very short memory. Don't miss it, it is first of all a public company - like Proximus, which goes very well - with a stable shareholder who has been able to bring about the changes from within. It was because the state was the main shareholder that bpost was able to transform into stability. Recognize it! We call for stability for tomorrow and for the state not to reduce its participation by less than 51 per cent. It is also thanks to its workers who have made enormous sacrifices over the last ten years in terms of productivity. Make the tour with a factor: it runs, Mrs. Lijnen! With pounds on your back! It was the workers who did so with the trade unions that guaranteed social peace. Don't miss it! So stop; you have ideology, you are an ideologist; the laws you continually lay show it! You want to privatize this position. Let's say it! By the way, you haven't answered half of my questions. I will come back to the committee on the role of the SPI, etc. Let us say, therefore, now that it is the statement of one man. Because I took my information. The negotiations had been going on for six months, although it was not clear with which mandate. We know it was the Netherlands that broke them up. But not after a statement; long before! I agree with you: that the FSMA should investigate, but that we should stop talking about "crazy", "sabotage"... Mr. Ducrame, you have so many great words at the moment. At least congratulate the workers and perhaps also that the FSMA will do its job, but stop saying that only one man would have changed the mind of the Dutch state, the board of directors and all the shareholders. PostNL is going very badly, too. It must also be one of the causes of the breakdown of negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u57	Madame Lalieux, I understand the whole situation is making you terribly uncomfortable. Mr Dedecker also mentioned it earlier: more than ever, you represent the state and the state business of the last century. This is a state-owned company where the PS itself controls, can make the dolls dance, instead of a performant, independent, listed company in which the government has a strategic share. We choose that second option. Mrs. Lalieux, I'm going to give you a scoop too. You can tell your colleague cumulard-socialist to play stratego at home and not to play stratego with our economy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u58	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. One thing is certain, Mrs Lalieux, there is clearly a question of economic sabotage here. Moreover, the will was simple and clear: manipulating workers at a time when the social-communist unions applied a single policy, that of burned land.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u59	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. Having said that, the debate at hand is disappointing. Indeed, this is a completely ideological debate. We are told that state-owned enterprises belong to the last century, that they do not operate. However, bpost is a company that proves by a + b that a state-owned company can be efficient and modern. It is therefore possible, in a modern democratic state, to have modern and efficient public enterprises. Let's stop with this cliché and stop saying that all this is old, filthy, rotten! That doesn't make any sense! But laissez-faire and everything in the market doesn't make sense either. We must be anchored in reality and in public service. Here, we are talking about a company where public service is important. And that's the point you didn't answer, Mr. De Croo. On the other hand, there must be no fetishism in the matter of chiffon, including on our part. There must also be no fetishism at the level of political games. We talked today about the political games between Mr. De Croo and the former minister, Mr. Labille. This kind of discussion is totally uninteresting, including for the 25,000 bpost workers who are concerned about public status. It is this question which interests us and which the ecologists would have wanted to see at the center of the debate. Indeed, the public status leads to the presence of a post office in all the Belgian communes, the presence of a ticket distributor in the communes of the country, the daily passage of the factor, the social role of the factors and the status of the employees. This is what is important and not the political games, your ego, nor the fetishism on the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u60	Minister, I have heard you thank the bpost workers. I'd like to know what workers you're thanking. Do you thank the 20,000 workers who are still in the company or the 20,000 who are no longer there? Do you also thank the auxiliary factors which, at the end of your career, will receive 1,743 euros gross per month? One thing is for sure, that we did not have an answer to the operation itself. On the other hand, we were able to rehearse your ultraliberal speech, as worthy heir to the Reagan, Thatcher, De Croo. It's a little normal, you'll tell me! Minister, you are dreaming of privatization. You want to privatize SNCB. We have a government that breaks down, destroys public services to better privatize them. You look at the numbers, the financial performance, but you don't have to do anything about postal workers, users. You talk about efficiency, but stamps are among the most expensive in Europe. And finally, we're wondering if we're not gonna get to a Canadian bpost scenario. We have already taken over the Georoute system from Canada. We know that universal service in Canada is no longer provided, that is, where it is not cost-effective to distribute mail, it is no longer distributed, simply. This is your vision of the society of the future, focused on profit. I have another vision, a vision of a society focused on people's needs, on the social role of factors, a society with a human face, warm, and not based on the cold figures of profitability that govern you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u61	Minister, it is becoming a weekly habit that I do not get an answer to the questions I am asking in the hemisphere. Nevertheless, you can draw two lessons from the situation. Mr Labille's misbehaviour has led to a lesson in the depoliticisation of administrative boards. The mere fact that those who are appointed politically can subsequently pass on crucial information to those who have appointed them is a reason why the government must stop all political appointments. In addition, for all those who are so proud that there is a government without the PS, it may be a lesson that the PS successfully sabotages from every level. You're right to say it's sabotage. In any capacity, the PS can successfully commit economic sabotage. Belgium is a failing state, this country with the PS is not working. Then just stop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u62	Minister, you have talked about modernisation, growth and, above all, about the anchoring of the company. That's a very nice ambition. Who could object to that? It is therefore incomprehensible. We are all losers in this story. Bpost and his thousands of employees were re-emphasized by former Minister Labille as a company with which to play political games, with which to oppose. That's very sad. It is indeed, as you say, an act of sabotage, a tactic of scorched earth, as the same PS unions have been applying to SNCB for days. That must be done, dear PS. Mrs Lalieux, perhaps you didn't know it yet, but the nineteenth century really is over. Stop clinging to the past with your spasms. Let us take advantage of all the opportunities to modernise public enterprises, to solve the political grip, to re-grow them, to flourish and to be ambitious. All taxpayers are entitled to that. The proud staff is entitled to that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we know a lot more than we were told about the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris and Brussels. We already knew about the Abdeslam brothers. You wanted to resign when it was learned on 25 March, three days after the Brussels attacks, that Ibrahim El Bakraoui had been expelled from Turkey. Now, the French press reveals that Mohamed Abrini was arrested in June 2015, when he returned from Turkey, and then released and placed under police surveillance. This has not prevented him from preparing for the two most important attacks that Europe has experienced in the last decade. Then we also learn that Khalid El Bakraoui, Maelbeek's suicide bomber, was arrested on 21 October, a few weeks before the attacks in Paris, while he was preparing them. He has just booked an apartment in Charleroi, rue du Fort, for Abdelhamid Abaaoud and for the Abdeslam brothers. We hear he's being arrested for arms trafficking. At home we discover links with the jihad, which he follows on the internet calls for hatred and jihad and terrorist chants. At home, there are equipment that allows you to scramble phone taps and check that you are not using a phone tap on your own. I'll remind you that at that time, he's on parole. Despite all these charges, he is left at liberty. You're going to tell me that it's the judicial investigation that will make this clear. But concerning Mohamed Abrini, it is incredible to say that he was under police surveillance and that he managed to commit two terrorist attacks! Minister, I believe that the government is seriously responsible for these issues. What about the measures that will finally make it possible to combat terrorism better? What is the status of the increase in the period of police custody? It has been promised by the government for six months and is now in limbo. What is the status of the systematic arrest of people returning from jihad? No action taken by the government! What is the status of the Salafist mosques that continue to spread their speeches? When will these SABLs be dissolved for the management of certain Salafist mosques? Minister, I expect you to take urgent responsibility for these issues that continue to threaten our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u64	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, as I understand it, your questions do not relate to the two specific cases. I could say that the secrecy of the investigation does not allow me to tell you everything. The only thing I can do is refer to the discussion that took place in the Committees of the Interior and Justice on 25 March 2016. I can also confirm that, as of October 29, 2015, specific research measures and methods have been implemented in relation to Mr Mohamed Abrini. Moreover, during the same month of October, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office opened a case against Mr. El Bakraoui for the purchase of Kalashnikov shippers and was released by the investigating judge. I can give you some of these elements of inquiry into these two people; they complement what I said at the Committees on the Interior and Justice. With regard to the parliamentary committee and the period of police custody, these elements were already included in my Justice Plan, Mr Dallemagne, in March 2015. Parliament decides, not the Minister of Justice. If I could decide, it would have already been done; you realize that. Indeed, the measures to be taken towards those returning would require a change in the Constitution, Mrs. Lalieux. You have to take part. With regard to the return of foreign fighters and the sanctions imposed on them, I have already submitted several "Terro" projects which have been voted on. Three of them are on their way right now. One of them provides exactly that pre-trial detention is simpler for those who return. You will find this in the projects. I agree well with the Ministers of the French-speaking, Dutch-speaking and German Communities and I hold meetings with them on the electronic bracelet and its use in this context. So I don't think you can say we're doing anything. Finally, regarding the financing of terrorism, the government will soon take concrete measures by royal decree regarding the freezing of foreign fighters assets. The decision of the Council of Ministers has been taken and the royal decree is under way. Don't say we don't do anything! That is not the case at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u65	Minister of Justice, I don't think you're doing anything, I think you're acting too little, too late, too slowly. This is a form of nonchalance for an extremely serious problem. You are telling me that Mohamed Abrini was put under special investigation on 29 October. It's a very heavy piece of information. This is an individual who is monitored by our police and who, while being monitored by the police with special methods of research, commits two massive attacks. Don't you think this is absolutely amazing, hallucinating? In any case, I am shocked by this news, minister. Secondly, as far as reforms are concerned, you are telling me that you are acting. But I don't see anything coming. You are telling me that it depends on a parliamentary majority. We have made proposals to increase custody of terrorism. I note that we are not being brought together on this issue. The commission responsible for it does not bring anyone together to try to find a solution. It is true that a two-thirds majority is required. As far as foreign terror fighters are concerned, we have also made proposals. And I'm waiting for us to discuss it quickly. As far as the financing of mosques is concerned, you have not answered me, Minister. It is important: the law is there, it is enough to apply it. All you have to do is ask for the accounts to be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u66	Mr President, Minister, you could tell with me that the trade unions and the trade unions' actions were full in the hemisphere, that the majority was almost fully present and that there was a rather hot atmosphere. I do not want to talk to you about an association of workers but about the action of the associations of magistrates. I would not call it a union of magistrates, they may have to worry about the little attention they have for their action. Nevertheless, we must be concerned about this. I questioned you about this two weeks ago, when actions were announced. You said publicly that the government should listen to that. I also understand that you have received those involved in your cabinet. However, last night, 14 days later, I saw that all associations of magistrates announced that they would take action next Tuesday. That is, of course, important. We have three major powers in our democratic society: the government, Parliament and the judiciary. It is the judiciary that knocks at the door, with the message that she is no longer getting her work done. The magistrates are not going to take action because they want more pay or because they want more holidays, but they are worried about whether they can still live up to the administration of justice, which is so important to all of us. Minister, you announced that you would listen to them. I have just heard Mr Dewael say in connection with the trade unions 'Listening' is good, consultation is good, but we are not going to fold. If that is also your attitude towards the magistrates, that listening is okay, that consultation is okay, but that you won't mess around, then an important pillar of our rule of law is slipping into a level I don't want and I don't expect you to want either. Minister, in all reasonableness, I am not going to raise my voice here, but what are you going to do? What plans do you have to ensure that these actions do not continue and meet the magistrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u67	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, as far as the magistrates are concerned, I had a meeting after you asked me your question, on 17 May, both with the lectures and with the associations we almost call syndicates. I believe I have listened to them effectively. In fact, I have been doing this much longer than since 17 May. I would also like to point out that the action they have announced is not a strike, but a call for greater understanding of justice at 8:45 p.m. What have I done since then? I've done a lot before, too, but I don't want to send you out with old guys in the reeds. 48 judicial trainees were evacuated by the government last Friday. There has been a meeting between the Minister of Pensions, my cabinet and the Magistrate in which the diploma certificates and half-time pension-half-time work are arranged. Since the beginning of the year 99 Magistrate vacancies have been published. In addition, 120 vacant relations have been published for the Registry staff and 327 will be published in the coming weeks. Finally, as regards the autonomy of management that we started with in the previous legislature, I systematically continue it, day after day. I have put forward a proposal, the magistrate has put forward a counter-proposal and we are now beginning to negotiate the precise text that we are going to submit to Parliament and the government. That's just what I've been doing in the last two weeks. I won't talk about everything else because that would seem excessive and abundant. Mr Vanvelthoven, there is hard work and I respect the third or the first power, as you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u68	Minister, you have listed a short list, although there is indeed a much longer list of everything you have in the scaffolding. If I have listened carefully, these are measures that have been decided and are in progress longer than the last 14 days. And that's exactly what I'm worried about. You say that you have received the magistrates and listened to them, but it is absolutely unclear to me and apparently also to the magistrates what you have provided for the actions since you announced them. They talk about linear savings. I said last time that you should be careful first to save and then reform: good reforms can lead to savings. I am afraid you have not been able to overcome the concerns of the magistrates with this brief answer. I hope that we will not slip further and, like other fellow Members, I will follow the matter further. I will certainly speak to you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u69	First of all, Minister, allow me to express my regret that the Minister for the Interior is not here. It's a little weird that I have to ask you these kinds of questions. I note that even the Minister of Justice is not trusted to answer these questions, but that the Minister of Finance is actually being sent forward. So be it. Perhaps party association in this is more important than competence. But this whole thing aside. My questions are about this weekend. We are now just over two months after the attacks in Brussels and the attention to Muslim radicalism is already weakening. Last weekend in the Ardennes, in Trois-Ponts near Liège, a jihad camp took place, organized by Halal Events from the Netherlands, for the second time, where the radical salafistic moslimprediker Imam Remy Soukirman came to preach. All men with beards, or what did you think? Muslims practiced there with fake kalashnikovs, trained fighting techniques, did paramilitary exercises, were preached by radical imams and so on. Tonight in Molenbeek, in room Saada, an event will take place where a Pakistani radical Muslim, Shahid Mehmud, will preach. On Sunday, also in Molenbeek, that one went to clean up with the coarse brush, another manifestation takes place where the Pakistani Salafist preacher Raza Saqib Mustafai comes to preach. All elements that show that the follow-up of those radical Muslims in this country is apparently a little less evident than one might have expected and hope for after the attacks in Brussels. My question to you is therefore quite simple. How is it possible that this kind of event is organized in the Ardennes from the Netherlands? The mayor of Trois-Ponts stated in the Walloon media that he could not intervene, because he was warned too late. Events also take place in Molenbeek tonight and Sunday. How can all this happen in this country, after all that we have been through in the past few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u70	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that between 27 and 29 May the Dutch organisation Halal Events organised an event in Trois-Ponts, a Walloon village which, as you probably know or do not know, is close to the heart of every cycling fan. The theme of the outing was "Be in the world like you're a traveler." Halal Events is only known as organizer of ardenne camps, not for other activities. The Remy Soekirman you mentioned was indeed welcomed as a guest speaker. He is imam and, according to both the Dutch and Belgian security services, he is placed within the ideological current of non-violent salafism. That means he's not calling for the use of force. Indeed, the person concerned usually carries out his activities in the Netherlands, where he is also resident, and is arranged in Belgium, as a guest speaker for various organisations. It was the third initiative of Halal Events in the Ardennes. In the first two cases, problems of public policy or other infringements have never been identified. Our various security services have distributed prior information regarding that halal weekend and have also communicated correctly, including to the mayor of Trois-Ponts, through local police. There was no paramilitary training and/or recruitment. No activities have been identified that are punishable in this country. The identities of the persons concerned have been recorded and are further monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u71	Minister, I do not want to be rude, but either it is naivety or it is incompetence or ignorance. I've seen the photos and footage of that so-called relaxation camp in the Ardennes. If I see them with fake kalashnikovs tucked in cloaked suits, masked Muslim men with beards who were capable of paramilitary combat techniques, then after the attacks in Brussels, Paris and elsewhere, I have at least the greatest reservations. If I hear that there is a salafistic imam who does not call for violence, then I, as a government, would put a lot of questions into that. I am also doing this to the Pakistani hate preachers who are coming to Molenbeek tonight and to the preachers of Sunday. The man who comes to Molenbeek on Sunday, in a rather radical mosque, has, among other things, formulated the following statements with that statement I end my speech, because after that quote I rest my case. That preacher has the following statement on his conscience:.The world will not be ideal until we have eradicated all Jews................................................................................................................. That is a literal statement by the imam who comes to Molenbeek on Sunday to preach. Have we really learned nothing from the past few years? I wonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u72	Mr President, yesterday we began discussions on budgetary control. Figures from the FPS Finance show that for the first four months of this year there is a decline in tax revenue of almost 3%, while budgetary control for the same revenue provides for a growth of 3%. Those are disturbing figures. At the time, I warned against underfinancing the tax shift. That was disputed at the time, but it turned out to be right. These initial data show that the attacks, the economy, everything that has happened in recent years, the standstill in a number of sectors, have a clear impact on our tax revenues. The company's advance payments during the first four months of this year amount to - 6%. We also see 155 million euros less for VAT only for the month of April. I have made a calculation on the basis of provisional figures, because it is very difficult to get a view of this as a Member of Parliament because some partial data are given. The rule of thumb I use shows that we are currently out of course with the federal budget for revenue of EUR 500 to 600 million. These are very large sums, Mr Van Biesen, which are disturbing. We had a discussion earlier about the budgets of the Justice Department. The whole country stands on stilts because of a number of savings. This is often about a few hundred million, while we have to note that, on the revenue side, that budget is likely to be knocked off course for EUR 500 to 600 million. Minister, it was agreed at the tax shift last year that a Monitoring Committee would review the evolution of revenue on a monthly basis. We have also seen this in the debate on budgetary control following the report of the Monitoring Committee. How do you interpret these figures? In the next few weeks, discussions will take place in the Finance Committee. Next week we will receive the Court of Auditors in the committee. We will also discuss this with the government. There's gotta be some clarity about the numbers. After all, a debate on the occasion of budgetary control, without knowing exactly what one wants to control, is not a good thing for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u73	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, in general terms, we are following this day after day on........................................................................................................................................................ More specifically for VAT receipts, two elements should be taken into account for the first four months. Firstly, when we compare this at the end of March, it is because when it comes to April's revenue, we find that there was a shift of EUR 120 million between April and May due to an incorrect payment in 2015. This means that revenue for April 2015 was artificially increased by that amount, which is already an important element. A second important element for that short period is a calendar effect. In 2015 Easter fell in April and in 2016 in March. That is only one day, but it represents 3% on that short period. These two elements are very important in terms of VAT, on top of the lockdown and the attacks of 22 March 2016. In the case of advance payments, we have been seeing a phenomenon for a number of years which runs parallel to the fall in interest rates, because the penalty, or bonification, is linked to that level of interest. The interest rate level has now fallen so low that there is hardly any incentive for companies to make advance payments in terms of Bonification and Penalisation. Last Friday, in the Council of Ministers, we adopted a draft law setting a minimum interest rate of 1%. This is important, because that will give companies yet another incentive to make advance payments. Of course, we will try to bring about this legislative amendment as soon as possible, so that it has an impact on the advance payments as soon as possible. As regards the follow-up of the tax shift, the monitoring of revenue and expenditure is carried out systematically on a monthly basis. It was agreed by the government that, in addition to monitoring the budget itself, the report of the Monitoring Committee, which is the starting point of the budgetary negotiations, should also include a monitoring of structural reforms, to which the tax shift certainly belongs. How this will be done in practice is currently being worked out by the government and will be put into practice in the relatively short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. During budgetary control, the committee has the opportunity to check this out. You have explained this in connection with VAT and advance payments. As the overall picture looks at the moment, I am not yet talking about the uncertainty about revenue from the caiman tax, the tax regularisation, the income that still has to be generated from the diamond tax, there is a clear impact on VAT and on advance payments. Also on movable withholding tax, we have been able to draw from the tables. In the coming weeks, we will ensure that the figures are right when it comes to budgetary control. That is the essence of Parliament's control work. If we are to see the enormous problems on the expenditure side to make savings, we must also ensure that the promised tax revenue is collected. We will certainly look at this in our committee over the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u75	Mr President, a prominent member of the government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to do the Liberal friends a favour, I shall refer to a prominent member of the government................................................................................................................................................................ The man suggested privatising the SNCB. For the record, everyone has their vision, but I personally find it too easy for a minister to put forward that analysis in times of social conflict. Again, everyone's vision. For the sake of clarity, in our view, we are in favour of strong public transport and of a public undertaking that can and must operate efficiently. I would now like to address the Open Vld Group and let it be noted that privatisations abroad, including in the United Kingdom, have always cost taxpayers a great deal of money and that they have come back to it afterwards. Minister, my questions are those of the staff on the streets, namely clarity. Where will the government save? What consequences will this have for punctuality, comfort and safety? What future does the government see for public transport? I suspect, by the way, that if you talk to private investors, I will look again at the Open Vld Group, and they will ask the same questions. Mr. Secretary, you're new to the government. You told me in committee last week that you spoke to many people. Have you received a mandate from the government, after all, I assume that a Deputy Prime Minister does not make such statements out of the blue in order to talk about privatisation? In other words, is that a government position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u76	Mr Geerts, last year the nuclear cabinet approved the strategic vision for the Belgian railway. We are currently implementing that vision. The concrete translation will be clear in the management contracts, in the investment plans and in the transport plan, which will enter into force next year. The aim of the government is to make SNCB a performant company. SNCB has the following priorities. Firstly, the quality of service should be higher for the customer. I think about punctuality and comfort. Secondly, it must attract new travellers. Thirdly, the debt must be stabilised. Those are the priorities at the moment. The government is preparing the future and that future is clear through the fourth railway package. It is the government's mission to prepare the national railways for a liberalised rail market. Belgium has always been in favour of direct allocation to the national operator, but that national operator must be a performing service provider. Through the government's efforts we will succeed in making SNCB a strong and efficient actor in the European rail system and thus guaranteeing the future of the Belgian rail system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u77	Minister, you referred to the strategic vision of the nuclear cabinet. However, I note that, of course, this is not your fault; you are only just Minister... that travellers and staff have been waiting two years for clarity. You also referred to the fourth railway package and called for the historic operator to be given a chance. Actually, you're saying that Minister De Croo talked out of it last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u78	Mr President, you sent us an e-mail a few months ago asking us not to read our text again. I will try to keep to that, which cannot be said of everyone here today. Yesterday evening, Minister, there was some disagreement about the government's position on the social conflict on the railways. What exactly is the problem with our railway companies? I have here a table that compares productivity with cost and our rail company with that in other countries. Turns out what? Our country is dwindling at the bottom; we have the highest public cost for our rail and the lowest productivity. When we look at our neighbouring countries, France is doing much better and the Netherlands is doing much better at a much lower cost. This government will take its responsibility. We want this to improve, make our railway company performant and financially healthy. We take our political responsibility and we have drawn up a strategic plan for the railway company. The government has committed an increase in productivity of 4% per annum. Those are the lines that this majority has laid down. How this is completed belongs to the autonomy of the company itself. This is what social dialogue is for. Let me be clear, ladies and gentlemen, there is every negotiating space for this. But what do we see as the union's response? A decision was taken in December, in accordance with the rules in force. In May, the trade unions' response consists of wild strikes and sabotage on the track, but there are neither proposals nor a constructive alternative to maintaining the productivity growth rate of 4%. Ladies and gentlemen, if we allow the trade unions to be committed, my magazine will soon be too small to be able to put our flag on it. Minister, I have a clear question. Can you confirm that this increase in productivity of 4% per year is maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u79	Minister, SNCB and the trade unions did not immediately give you honeymoon after you took office. I can imagine you swallowed once when you arrived at your cabinet, because you will probably have taken note of the government decisions taken before your arrival, including the decision to reduce the amount by 20% by 2019. You will, of course, have to do that. They get 20% less while, according to international studies, efficiency gains could be 9% within Belgium. This means that the effort we are asking for is double what efficiency gains can be. This means that services are cut off. You won't have a lot of options. Either SNCB will have to cut trains and stops, or it will have to cut staff, or it will have to raise ticket prices or a combination of the three. In any case, this will have an impact on the provision of services. I can understand why you don't feel so happy in the tight straitjacket you've been given. We have noticed this in part in your policy statement, where you leave an opening for more services, but also in your performance this week. After all, if we can believe the newspapers, you have proposed to the government to set up some sort of committee of wise men to mediate in the conflict, but apparently you have been flagged back by the government parties N-VA and MR. My question is very clear. Is this true? Have you made any proposals to the government? Were you indeed flogged back? Secondly, is the discussion of whether this circular will be temporarily suspended in order to give some room for negotiation, a slope that is still open to you? In other words, what is the strategy that the government will or will adopt to end the current social conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in July 2015, the strategic vision for the Belgian railways was adopted. This vision sets out a series of concrete objectives. One is the annual productivity increase of 4%. The railway company has developed a series of measures to achieve this productivity increase. A few months later, we note that the two largest trade unions are stopping a measure, namely the withdrawal of two days of credit. I am quite clear on this point: the objective of increasing productivity is not affected. This increase must be done. I therefore call once again on all those involved, the companies and the trade unions to shoulder their responsibilities. Social dialogue should continue in the appropriate bodies. I specifically ask the trade unions to keep it reasonable. Wild strikes are unacceptable. It is not possible to organise constructive social dialogue while the game is being stopped. A solution can be found through the restoration of services and the continuation of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u81	So, Minister, the productivity gains of 4% a year are not under discussion. I'll take my table again, because it proves it's possible. If it's possible in other countries, it should be possible with us. Minister, the trade unions gave you, in a manner of speaking, a jaw blow and you give them your other cheek, by remaining open to consultation. It is clear that the ball is now in the union camp. And if the Walloon socialist union does not now accept its responsibility, he himself organises the bankruptcy of our social dialogue and the bankruptcy of our railway company.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u82	Minister, I think the problems are much deeper than the problems that have emerged in recent weeks. The heavy saving of 20% is a straitjacket. This 20% saving path, expressed in five years of trying to achieve 4% productivity gains, is unsustainable and will have to be abandoned, if not the service will deteriorate. As I said, the international studies talk about productivity differences of 9%. This government wants to double it. So you'll have to leave that path. Instead of destroying the railways, you are just going to have to invest. We all know that substantial investment will have to be made in rail if we are to respond to the major mobility challenges we face. With this plan, however, this 20% will not succeed and you will see year after year that there will be protest, not only from the staff, but also from the travellers, who will also feel it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u83	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u84	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2016, I propose that you enter the following items on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session before item 3: - the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 29 February 2016 on the contribution to the operating, staff and founding costs of the Gaming Commission due by the holders of the licences class A, A+, B+, C, E, F1, F1+, F2, G1 and G2 for the civil year 2016, Nos 1843/1 to 3; - the legislative proposal (Mr Hendrik Vuye, Laurette Onkelinx and Françoise Schepmans, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael and Mrs Karin Temmerman, Catherine Fonck and Muriel Gerkens) amending the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia as regards the composition of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee, Nos 1419/1 and 2; - the legislative proposal (Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mrs Els Van Hoof, Mr Patrick Dewael and Mrs Meryame Kitrir, Catherine Fonck and Anne Dedry) amending the law of 13 August 1990 setting up a committee for the evaluation of the law of 3 April 1990 on the termination of pregnancy, amending Articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Criminal Code and repealing Article 353 of the same Code as regards the composition of the National Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy Abruption, Nos 1735/1 and 2; - the bill (Mr Brecht Vermeulen, Mr Franky Demon and Mr Philippe Goffin and Mrs Katja Gabriels) amending the law of 21 December 1998 on safety at football matches, No. 1849/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary meeting, before item 3, the following items: - the draft law confirming the Royal Decree of 29 February 2016 on the contribution to the operating, personnel and installation costs of the Game of Chance Commission due to Class A, A+, B, B+, C, E, F1, F1+, F2, G1 and G2 licensees for the calendar year 2016, Nos. 1843/1 to 3; - the bill (Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Françoise Schepmans, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael and Mrs Karin Temmerman, Catherine Fonck and Muriel Gerkens) amending the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia as regards the composition of the Federal Monitoring and Evaluation Commission, Nos. 1419/1 and 2; - the bill (Mr. Peter De Roover, Ms. Laurette Onkelinx, Mr. Denis Ducrame, Ms. Els Van Hoof, Mr. Patrick Dewael and Ms. Meryame Kitir, Catherine Fonck and Anne Dedry) amending the Act of 13 August 1990 on the establishment of an evaluation committee for the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy, amending articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Penal Code and repealing article 353 of the same Code, with regard to the composition of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Interruption of Pregnancy, Nos. 1735/1 and 2; - the bill (MM. Brecht Vermeulen, Franky Demon and Philippe Goffin and Mrs Katja Gabriëls) amending the Law of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches, No 1849/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u86	Mr. Speaker, my colleague Robert Van de Velde and I refer to the written report; this bill has been well discussed and we believe it is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u87	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement from my side to return to the debate we have had in the Finance Committee on this draft and to explain why my group will vote against it. Of course, it can be understood that this project meets a need for more flexibility. That is one of the arguments raised in the Finance Committee. However, for us, this project goes – we regret it – far further than this famous search for flexibility. It is clearly in the right line of this government that we denounce. It is to disinvest in public structures of the State and then outsource its missions to private third parties. Thus, article 6 of the draft explicitly provides for the use of consultants and, in the explanatory memorandum, it is recognized that the means of the Régie are insufficient. My question to the government was simple. Why not provide resources, increase resources rather than use outsourcing, which is often much more expensive? The Minister did not provide a satisfactory response. So we are well in pure ideology. That is why my group will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the subject before us today is an important subject, which has been pointed out, for the good management of our federal state, for the good management of finances and, of course, for the good management of our national real estate assets. I would therefore like at the outset to affirm my group's support for this project, which we believe is in the right direction, namely that of a more flexible and efficient administration of the State's real estate. As a reminder, the federal government's housing stock is very important. It is even the largest owner in the country with 889 buildings owned, with nearly 5 million m2 and an amount of almost 13.5 billion euros. This is a project that will allow for a more modern and efficient management of such a heritage. It is therefore highly necessary. However, the problem facing us is simple. The Federal Building Acquisition Committee, which was created as a result of the regionalization of the operation of the acquisition committees as carried out by the Sixth State Reform, unfortunately has insufficient capacity and capacity to carry out all the sales currently planned by the Régie des Bâtiments. This could lead to a significant delay in sales and valuations of real property. The figures corroborate this situation. At the June 2015 consultation between the Federal Acquisition Committee and the Régie des Bâtiments, it was established that the acquisition committee could sell during this year for an amount of approximately 18.8 million euros, which is well below the target of 36 million euros. This amount, of course, represents only 15% of the amount of property already transferred for sale to the federal acquisition committee. However, these transferred assets are unoccupied and lose a little more value every day. The Committee's lack of resources therefore makes the State lose money because it cannot fully fulfil its mission. However, as I said in committee, public authorities have an important role and a duty to be exemplary in the management of their property and, consequently, public funds. Every effort must therefore be made to ensure that buildings which no longer have public utility can be sold and thus have a new vocation, whether economic, commercial, social or cultural. It is therefore necessary to equip the procurement committee with all the means necessary to carry out its mission and to carry out an effective and flexible policy on the real property of the State. That is precisely the purpose of this bill, which we support, and which, as you know, is intended in the event of a real estate transaction, to leave the choice to the Régie des Bâtiments either to appeal to the federal real property acquisition committee or to its own services. This project will enable the State, through the necessary relaxation of procedures, to ensure a more flexible and efficient management of its real estate assets. It therefore clearly constitutes an improvement and a step forward in the proper management of the national heritage which, in this way, will not be squandered by the Federal State, but – on the contrary – will be managed more effectively by the latter. Finally, as I had the opportunity to mention during the debate in the Finance Committee on 17 May, the possibility offered to the Régie des Bâtiments to use third parties for all or part of its transactions represents a tangible and undeniable step forward. This openness will enable the current sales and management procedures to be professionalised even more with the provision, in harmony and in consultation with the public administration, of expertise which will constitute an added value for the completion of the transactions. In this context, and I have had the opportunity to speak in committee in this way, the public and the private are more than complementary and can work hand in hand in the common interest. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this project is therefore a step forward for us in terms of the good management of the state's real estate assets. That is why our group will support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that Mr Calomne has not read the text he has just commented on. In any case, I would like to say to Mr Piedboeuf that his report was a little short, because he could suggest that there was unanimity on this text, which is not the case. Minister representing the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, if there is a positive opinion in the head of my group, it is about the need to manage the Régie more effectively. There is an important heritage, whether built or not, belonging to the Régie des Bâtiments, which sleeps unnecessarily for lack of sufficient capacity to implement the sales operations of these buildings or land that we no longer need. This would make it possible to value this heritage and perhaps also to help companies or individuals who could make useful use of it. The draft law identifies, in the context of the explanatory memorandum, the source of the problem, i.e. a node of congestion at the level of the Federal State Acquisition Committee. Rather than, logically, equipping this acquisition committee with sufficient resources, it is decided to outsource this support to the Régie's choice of operations to sell the state's assets. In absolute terms, we would not object if an equivalent ex ante and ex post control capacity were ensured in the context of this privatisation of the missions to accompany the sales operations of the Régie des Bâtiments. That is not the case. Indeed, if the support of these operations is entrusted to these private actors against ringing and stumbling currency (I do not know where the economy is), the ability to control these sales operations is greatly diminished. Unfortunately, more or less recent history has illustrated that there is a certain sensitivity to fraud: insider dealings, transactions whose advertising is not fully assured, which can benefit either buyer. It seems to us that in these types of real estate transactions we must be able to control the value demanded, the publicity of transactions. That's not the case! In the same way, the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments did not accept our request for the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate in committee on the matter. (I think obtaining this opinion should be a general rule in legislative work.) And this opinion is doubly important, since the Finance Inspectorate is entrusted with an ex post control of operations. Does it have the capacity in human terms? What is more, she could have told us what the cost of this type of operation is? Is it not better to strengthen the services of federal procurement committees than to outsource these missions? In terms of economic impact, is the choice not made by the majority yes or not relevant? We do not know the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on this matter. However, he could have shed some light on all the members, including Mr Calomne. In an attempt to remedy this dissatisfaction with the ability to control the operations carried out, given the various risks associated with managing these real estate transactions, we have tabled two amendments to improve the text. The first is intended to ensure publicity, including with regard to the Chamber of Operations carried out annually. Publicity in favour of the government is ensured in an article of the law. What do you have to hide? Why do you not agree to systematically submit the annual list of transactions, buildings, land sold and at what cost as well as the advertisements made? The second calls for the Court of Auditors to be entrusted with an annual analysis to verify that the rules have been complied with, that the State's assets have been properly valued, and that there is no suspicion of fraud with regard to these operations. You know our commitment to proper, ethical management and the fight against fraud. And it seems to us that, under the pretext of simplifying the procedures for the resale of assets, you deprive yourself and the citizens of an important control mechanism, given the sums involved. We will resubmit our amendments. If they were not to be supported by the majority, as was the case in committee when they were minimalist in terms of the issues at stake, we will only be able to vote against this bill, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u90	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would rather give an explanation of vote, because I would like to explain why we are going to vote against this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is quite clear that there are problems in both the Procurement Committee and the Buildings Committee. This analysis is also shared by the Minister, because the initial wording of the draft law even states: "There are too few resources and there are too few staff." That's the analysis. Apparently, the solution is to privatise. As often, especially with this government, it is proposed to privatise. In this case, this is a bit tricky, because things are being transferred to the Buildings Regie, but it is immediately said that it is also intended to be able to outsource a number of things. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not a good policy. We want efficient public services. Honestly, I thought the majority was also in favour of efficient public services. In this case, however, the necessary resources must be given to these administrations. If it is first recognised that the number of staff and resources are not sufficient, then something must be done about this. With the present design, knowledge will decrease both in the Purchase Committee and in the Directors of the Buildings in the future, so that this knowledge will no longer remain in our own services. We cannot accept that. My colleague has already tabled a number of amendments, including the question of transparency. Mr. Secretary, you can't argue with that, can you? While we were discussing matters in committee, it became very clear that there was something going on with the report from the Finance Inspectorate. When we asked if we could see that report, your body language said yes, but your employee said no, which also made you say no because you did not think it was customary. You also received a little help from the chairman of the committee who said that this is not customary and that the report was therefore not made available to the public. This, of course, raises the suspicion that the report was negative about your draft law. Therefore, by means of amendments, my fellow Members are asking for a different form of transparency. I think you would do well to accept those amendments, but I fear that they will. Even if you do not accept these amendments, the fact remains that you are going to outsource your own knowledge and will not validate it within your own services. That is why we absolutely cannot approve your draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u91	Mr President, I do not wish to repeat here the debate that took place in committee, but there are still new elements, in particular the presence of the Minister of Finance who is replacing the Minister of the Interior. It would be interesting to have your feeling, Minister of Finance, on the starting point of this bill. Indeed, your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, starts from the postulate – that is, in all letters in the explanatory memorandum and he reiterated in his introductory statement – that "the federal building acquisition committee has insufficient capacity and resources". If I am not mistaken, Minister of Finance, the federal real property acquisition committee falls within your jurisdiction. I therefore wanted to ask you whether you agree with the statement made by the Minister of the Interior. Do you also consider that the acquisition committee that depends on you has insufficient resources? Can you be satisfied with this fact and simply simply entrust these tasks to other speakers? Is this not a kind of confession of weakness, which would be a bit dismaying in the head of the competent minister? I have a second thought. I heard Mr. Calomne say that this bill is a matter of good financial management. If there is an agency in charge of the proper management of the state's finances, it seems to me that it is the Finance Inspectorate whose activities should be of primary interest to the Minister of Finance. I would therefore like to ask Mr Calomne whether he considers it appropriate to decide on a text without even having the text of the Finance Inspectorate on the same document. What is the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, Minister of Finance? Do you not consider that, in order to shed light on our discussions, it would be interesting to have this document available. We had a point of dis-receiving from your colleague. I hope that you will be more open to the desire for transparency that drives all the speakers who have spoken so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u92	Mr President, the remarks made by Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Crusnière and Dispa are well-founded. The committee for the acquisition of buildings has been very busy for a long time; not only on projects from the Régie des Bâtiments, but also by other departments and services. There is also a considerable know-how within the Régie des Bâtiments on this type of project. So I think it is reasonable to continue what the government is doing at this time, that is, to take advantage of this know-how, which is provided for in the government agreement. With regard to the controls to which Mr Gilkinet has referred, account must be taken of the prior monitoring of the Finance Inspectorate, of the Minister of Finance and of the annual report to the Council of Ministers on projects. As regards the question of the report by the Finance Inspectorate, I repeat what Mr Jambon said in committee. He is not obliged to release that and he has committed himself not to do so. I'll leave that as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u93	Minister of Finance in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, indeed, any minister is not obliged to submit the report of the Inspectorate of Finance when asked to do so in a discussion of a bill. That's a shame! We should improve this procedure structurally through a parliamentary debate. But he can still do it. Did he have anything to hide from a critical opinion of the Finance Inspectorate as to the cost of the measure or the ability of the Finance Inspectorate to control itself? This is the mission you give her, when she is not specialized in the subject matter, unlike the acquisition committee. He may have something to hide about the possible risks of further malfeasance or miscalibrated operations. We can really ask ourselves the question. That's my conviction. I may be wrong, but I think this opinion of the Finance Inspectorate was as critical as ours, but you're not giving me the means to be misunderstood. I find it particularly dangerous to leave our hands free to the Régie, without the ability to exercise sufficient control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1816/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1816/5) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 1 April 1971 establishing a Government of the Buildings." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill amending the Act of 1 April 1971 establishing a Buildings Authority". The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u96	• 1 - Georges Gilkinet (1816/3) • 2 - Georges Gilkinet (1816/3) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u97	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 7. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u98	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u99	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Daphné Dumery, Goedele Uyttersprot, Brecht Vermeulen, Werner Janssen, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u101	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1454/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1454/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the law of 31 January 2009 on the continuity of undertakings, as regards the appeal in the context of a judicial reorganisation by a collective agreement." As regards the appeal in the context of a judicial reorganisation by a collective agreement, by means of a collective agreement, the Commission proposes to amend the Law of 31 January 2009 on the continuity of undertakings.' The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u105	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1843/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1843/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u109	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Hendrik Vuye, Laurette Onkelinx, Françoise Schepmans, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Karin Temmerman, Catherine Fonck, Muriel Gerkens. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1419/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1419/1) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u113	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter De Roover, Laurette Onkelinx, Denis Ducarme, Els Van Hoof, Patrick Dewael, Meryame Kitrir, Catherine Fonck, Anne Dedry. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u115	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1735/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1735/1) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u117	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Brecht Vermeulen, Franky Demon, Philippe Goffin, Katja Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u119	Mr.President, this adaptation of the law is necessary, because, from the 2016-2017 season, there will be 24 professional clubs: 16 clubs will operate in Division 1A, including the Standard, and 8 in Division 1B. The current third division will be transformed into an amateur division. I thank Mr Vermeulen for opening his text for signature. With this proposal, this new configuration of championship organization will be incorporated into the law. The Football Act, adopted in 1998 as the preamble to the Euro 2000 organised in the Netherlands and Belgium, proved its effectiveness. Indeed, if we look at the crime figures as recently communicated by the Minister of the Interior, there is a constant decrease: in 2012, there were 4,596 risk supporters and, in 2015, 4,220. A broader discussion of the text takes time. It requires contributions, hearings at the level of both the police and the players and bodies involved in football. Our group is open to broader reflection and will continue the legislative work in this direction. In any event, given the start of the new football season, it was necessary to adapt the law to the new categories and divisions put in place. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a proposal to amend the football law, which dates back to 1998 and was made with a view to the European Championships of 2000 which were organised both in Belgium and in the Netherlands. Why have we now tabled a bill? Why does the football law need to be amended? The season that just ended was the last in that form. After all, the competition reform, decided by the KBVB and quite a few sub-organisations around the same time in 2015, ensures that Belgian football will be organised completely differently from the 2016-2017 season. The paid football will be divided into a series of 1A with 16 clubs remaining unchanged and in a series 1B with eight clubs instead of the current 17 clubs of the second class. The former third and fourth classes, also called promotion, are now considered as amateur football and reclassified. There is the first class amateurs, which will be organized nationally. The second class amateurs is divided into a Flemish and a French language section. The second reason why the football law should be amended is the finding that the number of minutes written by the football cell is increasing, while the number of real cases of hooliganism is falling. Figures, in response to a written question by Mr Ducarme, show that a total of 2 279 months of stadium prohibition has been imposed from January to March 2016, on top of the 5 624 months from the first half of the previous season. In addition, the figures increase year after year. In two years time, the number of stadium bans has increased significantly, from 600 to 758. Club Bruges is currently the crown with 99 supporters who have a stadium ban, followed by Antwerp and Standard. There's a very big but. Ms Cathy Van den Berghe, head of the Football cell of the FPS Interior, has stated that an increase does not mean that there is more hooliganism. I should like to take this reservation into account in my proposal. I, along with many others, believe that a number of serious infringements really need to be punished more severely and that, therefore, minor infringements are also less severely punished. Soccer must remain a party, as it used to be. A relatively small infringement must not automatically be accompanied by a heavy penalty. Punishments must be proportionate and the emphasis should certainly not be on minutes or penalties. However, we must strive to prevent infringements by pointing out possible infringements, without necessarily giving rise to a stadium ban or a fine. We must also remain vigilant in relation to the use of the police. We must strive for more security, but not necessarily with more police. If it is possible, it must be even with less police commitment, by working more preventively and less repressively. A further adjustment has to do with the fact that the problems are not only found in paid football with the clubs from the highest divisions, but also in traditional clubs with a large support, such as Beerschot Wilrijk, Racing Mechelen, La Louvière and Aalst. Also in women's football, an encounter between big clubs in the BeNe League caused problems with violations of the football law, if it had already been applicable. There were also problems with a number of games for the youth. In the Schiervelde stadium of Roeselare the cup finale for the U21 is already organized for the second time. For the second time in a row there were also violations of the football law. My proposal to amend the football law aims at a number of technical amendments which will make the football law applicable to first class A and B from the new competition reform and to a new category to be introduced, namely amateur football in an amateur competition with a national security risk. The clubs should provide risk analysis together with the local police and the mayor at the start of the season, or a few days before the game. A number of minimum criteria will be used to assess whether the requirements of the football law apply to the intended competition. For us, it does not seem necessary to impose these requirements for each game in the amateur League 1. I think it would be disproportionate to subject all clubs from all amateur departments to football law. That is why we need to ensure that precise criteria are laid down in the new legislation. In addition, my proposal focuses on the reform of sanctions. Major offences must be punished more severely, minor offences must be punished more lightly. For example, those who commit a minor infringement should be placed in a wrong box while there is sufficient capacity to receive an official record of warning, without a penalty or stadium ban being attached to it. Both Ostend and KV Kortrijk use this method and that is a success, even though the football law does not yet allow the system. That's the first category. The second category concerns the same offences which lead to a direct conviction in accordance with the current baremas of the football law. The third category concerns hooliganism. For those who damage physical integrity, the penalty will be higher and the penalty heavier. Those were some of the main lines of the bill that I tabled and which was also declared admissible last week. Last week, however, I learned that a number of text changes are still needed. It is also logical and normal for the bill to be supported by advice. Well, there was a good chance that the opinions still to be requested would have led to some changes in the text. Moreover, we had to find that after the last game of the season in second class, Antwerp v Eupen, there were quite a few people involved with a stadium ban. However, a response to such situations is not included in the original proposal, so there is certainly a need for further amendment of the football law. Of course, I would have liked to have submitted the full text for approval, but, as you should have heard, it was not enough. At the same time, there is the pressure on time from the competition reform. I therefore proposed at the committee meeting yesterday, not to withdraw the legislative proposal, but to replace it with a new global amendment. This will allow us to start the competition at the end of July without creating a vacuum in the area of football law because of missing or wrong text provisions that no longer correspond to the reality of the new competition reform. Soccer games must be safe. For this we have a framework, the football law, which has proved its worth several times, even though improvements are still possible. The proposal put to the vote in plenary today makes all the necessary minimal adjustments to the football law so that it can be applied from the start of the new season. After the recess, I come up with a new proposal, which involves broader and deeper changes and which modernises the football law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a step in the right direction to change the competitive formula of football. Our group, too, is absolutely in favour of this. As Mr Vermeulen said, this is only a first step. We, together with the other groups, would like to continue with the football law. It is important to review sanctions in a reform such as this. Small, banal offences should be subject to light sanctions or perhaps just a warning, while serious offences such as hooliganism with severe penalties, heavier than today, should be punished. Moreover, how will we address the fact that directions from stewards are not being followed? We believe that this should be punished in the same way as not following directions from police officers, so that the authority of stewards volunteers is not undermined. In addition, the new law should retain the obligation to notify in the event of a stadium ban. We will take these points back when the debate on hooliganism begins in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u122	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u123	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1849/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1849/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u124	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u126	Mr Nollet, you wanted to speak on the order of business?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u127	No, Mr. President, about the minister's presence. As I know, Minister Marghem is not with us. I called on the team to check, but that's obviously not the case. I don't know how to interpret that fact. In any case, it makes a lot of political sense. In this kind of situation, you do not accept that the debates take place. I'm trying not to add too much, but I'm waiting for you to take a stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u128	I'm checking to see if the minister's not in the drink. You never know!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u129	Mr President, Mrs Marghem has informed me that she has been in traffic for some time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u130	In that case, I'll leave it to the Chamber to see what we do. If you're being asked to suspend, I'll do it. Then we'll suspend until the minister arrives. There's gonna be a call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u131	Mr. Speaker, the minister is not here and I have concerns about the two hours of delay that people are currently in transportation. Do we have an idea of the time frame? We're not gonna be waiting here for two hours!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u132	I just got the minister online, she's here. She'll be here in two minutes. So, we're not gonna wait two hours for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u133	We suspend the session for 5 minutes. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u134	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the session has been reopened. We'll re-examine the draft bill. The rapporteurs were Mr Klaps and Mrs Dierick and Mrs Lalieux. Only Mrs. Lalieux is present. I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u136	Mr President, after long weeks and months of work on this issue, the other two rapporteurs will not intervene. I will therefore give you knowledge of the second reading. On 12 May, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, it was decided to refer Bill Doel 1 and 2 back to committee, because eight amendments had been tabled and sent to the Council of State. He then gave a more detailed and detailed opinion on them. A first request was made by our colleague Jean-Marc Nollet. For the proper conduct of the work, he wanted to hear from the AFCN and even Minister Jambon to analyse in depth two issues: seismic risk on the one hand, and the necessary investments on the other. The opposition in its entirety was in agreement with this request. For my part, I had asked for Elias to be auditioned. As usual, these requests were rejected by the majority. The general discussion focused on the amendments and on the important opinion of the Council of State. It should be noted that this time he had all the elements. Since the other rapporteurs will not stress this, I would point out that the Council of State had to act urgently, because the government had asked him to do so. Let me remind you that it was last December. In addition, he had not been able to read all the documents, since he had not received the agreement. Thanks to the opposition's amendments, he obtained it and the amendments. The Council of State is clear. He considered that the bill as introduced had several legal problems. In addition, it implicitly criticizes the legal options chosen by the Minister and concludes that it is necessary to amend this text. The fact that the minister seemed, at the beginning of our work, and this subsequently confirmed herself, to be opposed to any idea of an amendment as suggested by the Council of State clearly indicates that, in reality, she is feet and fists linked to the convention. Anyway, that's what I'm telling her. Amendment 32, tabled by Mrs Caprasse, Mr Delizée and myself, made the entry into force of the law dependent on a formal decision of the European Commission that this law does not constitute State aid. We wanted to pass this first amendment, as it had been accepted by the majority following similar remarks by the Council of State on the diamond tax. The lack of clarity was also raised by the Conseil d'Etat as to the investments to be made in Doel 1 and 2, in particular on new investments at seismic level. Similarly, the Council of State noted the ambiguity of the subsidies, in the light of the Convention. I am the one who raises this element. Mr. Nollet said that, as a first step, he would limit his intervention to two points in the opinion of the Council of State. The first point concerns youth investment. Indeed, the Council of State stresses "that there are good reasons for establishing a mechanism to adapt the flat-rate fee to the reality of investments, especially since certain future investments, particularly those aimed at achieving the reinforced anti-seismic standard, have clearly not yet been taken into account. Such a mechanism for adjusting the fee seems all the more necessary as its absence increases the risk that the European Commission will come to the conclusion that there will be a state aid mechanism, which is incompatible with European rules." Mr Nollet asked the Minister what she intended to do on that point. It also comes to the question of state aid which I have already mentioned. Mr de Lamotte was surprised, first of all, by the lack of reaction within the majority, whereas the Council of State had issued a detailed opinion which, as he recalled, strongly recommended amending the Government's text. He stressed the important concept of public authority. The cabinet of Janson Baugniet, paid by the minister, recommends, in its note, to follow the remark of the Council of State, which suggests that this notion be replaced by that, less equivocal, of federal public authority. Mr de Lamotte wondered whether the minister would follow the recommendation of the Council of State, but above all of the cabinet consulted. It goes back to the issues already mentioned in relation to youth investments. Mr de Lamotte also referred to the issue of notification of State aid and to the problem of the entry into force of this project. He recalled the passage of the opinion of the Council of State. The situation is clear to him: this draft cannot be voted on as it stands before a decision by the European Commission on its possible state aid. Ms Temmerman recalled the various amendments which she had co-signed and which were in line with the analysis made by the Council of State. Amendment 30 empowers the King to determine the date of entry into force of this Bill, which may not take place until it has been found that this Act does not constitute State aid and the sub-amendment specifying its terms. One of the arguments put forward by the Minister for further consideration of this bill is that there is at this stage no formal notification of state aid to the European Commission. By the way, Ms. Temmerman said, the same was true for the diamond tax, when the government considered it prudent to adapt the scheme. The question is why we don't do the same thing here. Mr Calvo noted that it had been more than a year since the committee had been working on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Beyond the wrong political decision to extend the two oldest and probably the most dangerous reactors in the nuclear fleet, we can regret the waste of time and energy that we could have devoted to something else. According to Mr Calvo, the imbalance in the energy mix has become obvious. What perspectives can the Minister provide for the development of alternative sources? The Minister commented on the amendments on which the Council of State had been asked for its opinion, as well as on the amendments tabled after the Council of State. Amendment 18 concerning a judicial decision ordering the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2 provides for the explicit exclusion of State compensation from this hypothesis. The Minister considers it preferable to use the agreement alone to settle compensation cases to the extent that it is perfectly permissible for parties to an agreement to regulate compensation mechanisms among themselves in the performance of a contract. With regard to developments relating to public authority, the Minister joins the position expressed by the Council of State that it should be understood that only a unilateral act of the federal State could possibly give rise to compensation for the operator, excluding acts that could be taken by the federated entities and decisions that would be issued by a body or a judiciary. On this point, Janson agrees with the Council of State. However, the Minister does not consider it necessary to amend the text to the extent that this double performance is now clear from your commission's work. However, Ms Lalieux felt that the risk of divergent interpretation was not entirely excluded. She said that the text still needed to be changed. Mr. Friart believes that the debate is sufficiently clear on this point and confirms that the concept of public authority in this bill is the federal legislative and executive authority. The Minister explicitly states that the additional investments imposed by the Authority to ensure the safety of all nuclear power plants cannot be considered unilateral acts liable to award compensation to the operator. In the Minister's view, there seems to have been some confusion in this regard. The compensation rules laid down by the Convention are alien to security aspects. She then commented on the rest of the amendments tabled by the majority. In addition, according to the Minister and in response to Ms. Temmerman, it is not necessary to establish a parallel with the diamond tax because, in this case, the government believes that there could indeed be state aid. This is why not only the tax system has been amended to provide for a deferred entry into force conditional on a European opinion, but also the reason why the government has actually made an official notification, which it has not done in this context. The opposition as a whole considers that the essential reason why the Minister refuses to consider the possibility of a postponement of an entry-into-force provision is not to be sought in the certainty that she would have as to the absence of State aid in the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension scheme but in the fact that she can no longer, at this stage, afford to change the agreement already concluded with Electrabel from an iota. For the rest, it is reactions that will be made by all the members who will take the floor. Finally, as usual, all the many amendments, some 40, were rejected by the majority by more or less 11 votes to 4 for the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u137	I would like to thank Mrs Lalieux for this work. It is known that it has not always been obvious in committee to follow the debates in heated moments. I would also like to thank her for keeping the floor with regard to the fact that she would make an oral report. She said so. She did. I think this is important for the next steps in a case, I will say earlier in the gallery, which is far from complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u138	At the PS, we keep our promises! It's a beautiful slogan, we'll hold it back! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, this is a real Chinese torment. Drop after drop, error of Minister Marghem after error of Minister Marghem, opinion of the Council of State after opinion of the Council of State, recourse to justice after legal action, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 has become, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, a real Chinese torment for the entire government, but also for the whole of this parliament, and more particularly for the members of the Economy Committee and its chairman. The government suffers the consequences of its ideological blindness in favour of the "all-to-nuclear". Just a few weeks ago, a new tile fell on Mrs. Marghem's head. The Council of State once again delivered a murderous opinion for the government. The Council of State is formal, your bill cannot be voted in its current form. You need to review your copy. That is what the Council of State has said and repeated for almost a year and a half. You need to review your copy. Among other things, the Council of State has said that it is essential – that is the word it uses – to postpone the coming into force of the bill. The Council of State asks you to wait for the European Commission to give its decision on whether or not the draft law and the Convention constitute State aid. The Council of State also says that it is totally unacceptable to provide that Electrabel will be compensated with the taxpayer's money if the court decides to close Doel 1 and Doel 2. These two fundamental criticisms point to the fact that this bill is inconclusive and could lead to the condemnation of Belgium by the European Commission. In the face of criticism from the Council of State, the only responsible attitude, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is to abandon or amend this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u139	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the Council of State. In fact, in its opinion, the Council of State states that the answer to this question deserves an in-depth analysis from a legal and economic point of view, but that it is not in a position to do so. He therefore simply advised that reference should be made to the European Commission. But, once again, this is only an opinion. This is not an order, an injunction, an ultimatum, a ukase. So let's take it for what it is. This is not the first time a government has failed to follow the recommendations of the Council of State. When Mr Nollet was Minister of Energy for the Walloon Region, he also did not follow the opinions of the Council of State. In addition, in this case, the brush has become somewhat tangled. Indeed, on page 29 of its opinion delivered on 25 April, it can be said that "the European Commission has opened an investigation on its own initiative with regard to the proposed measure", even though this has never been the case. So I don't know if we can really trust the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u140	Mr Friart, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u141	Mr President, I can accept Mr Friart's criticism of the actions that I have been able to initiate, the positions that I have defended with my colleague Calvo, but that he may try to restore the Council of State to its place,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u142	It's ambitious!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u143	Mr President, you will understand that I cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u144	Neither will I, by the way, answer him earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u145	The Council of State has been requested five times. Each time, it has brought precise, consistent and consistent elements, demonstrating that the legal construction on which the Minister thinks he can rely to extend the activity of nuclear power plants is such a fragility that it would be better, by caution, to wait until the European Commission has given its green light. Mr Friart, if we look at all the work that has been done in committee and recalled by Mrs Lallieux, there is no reasoning, either from the minister, from yourself or from a member of the majority, which has been able to demonstrate that this only argument can be dismantled. I'll take the chairman of our witness committee. I would ask him to stop me if I do not tell the truth about the fact that we have not obtained the slightest legal contradiction that stands in the way of these repeated opinions of the Council of State. Mr Friart, we either spend the night with a reaction from us whenever you are going to quote and criticize the Council of State, or I urge you not to use this argument any more and not to allow you to criticize the Council of State. Otherwise, this may last.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u146	The aim is not to criticize the Council of State but to point out that it gives an opinion and that it has tangled its brushes, which you cannot contradict. The government, the minister and Janson Baugniet otherwise justify the decision that has been made. As has been said throughout these 70 hours of meetings, the government and the majority, on the one hand, and the opposition, on the other hand, are not on the same wavelength and will never be. I won't say any more at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u147	Mr Friart, I would like to ask you to stop doing so. I'm going to give two quotes from the Council of State in Dutch. You say the Minister interpreted it differently and explained it differently. Those two quotes simply cannot be explained differently. I shall quote them again: '... which implies that the measure cannot be implemented until the European Commission has completed its investigation.' This gives no margin for interpretation. It implies that the measure cannot be implemented. I quote again: "If, despite what has been said, the Chamber would like to conclude the legislative process anyway, what you are trying to do here today, then an amendment to that effect is essential. Our amendment seeks to postpone this until the European Commission has given an answer. Mr Friart, the measure cannot be implemented and an amendment is essential. These two quotes, at least in Dutch, but I assume also in French, give no margin for interpretation. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u148	Mr Friart, I listened very carefully to you because your speech is important. With all the more attention given to the fact that you have had more time to speak on the subject than all the Members of the European Parliament who have spoken in committee. My colleagues could attest to that. But you're taking a wrong angle of attack, Mr. Friart. A tactic that begins with decredivising the Council of State is questionable, because the boomerang effect could occur faster than you think. It also shows the weakness of your argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u149	Mr Friart, we have already had lengthy debates. Mrs Temmerman, I should have read the report in extenso. It is also written in French in the report, Mr Friart. I'll read it again. On page 9: "The European Commission should cooperate fully and refrain from any measures which could jeopardize the achievement of the Union's objectives, which means that the measure cannot be implemented until the European Commission has completed its examination." I would remind you that the European Commission has asked 18 or 28 questions. Isn't that an investigation? Eighteen, said the minister. I didn't see anything, I didn't hear anything, but there are still 18 questions that the Belgian state has to answer! And the Council of State to conclude with an explicit appeal to the Minister and Parliament, stating that if the intention is to complete a legislative process – what you are doing today – an amendment to this effect, to make the date of entry into force dependent on the finding by the European Commission that no state aid is available, would then be essential. I would remind you that we are appointing the members of the Council of State here; we are funding it to be independent. Why are we doing this, Mr. Friart? So that he doesn't depend on an executive. Its object is the general interest and not the particular interest. I'll come back. To accuse the state councillors of not understanding anything, to tell them that they are totally wrong when we know that they are defending the general interest, while this government defends the interests of an operator, it is not worthy of a parliamentarian! I was therefore saying, Mr Friart, that in the face of criticism from the Council of State, the only responsible attitude is to abandon or modify this project. In the Committee on Economy, the Socialist Party and other opposition colleagues have tabled many amendments. The PS has tabled amendments to prevent Belgium from being condemned by the European Commission and to prevent taxpayers from having to compensate Electrabel. These are reasonable amendments to protect the state and taxpayers, which are based directly on the advice of the Council of State, but you seem to mind. What is shocking is that the minister and the majority rejected our amendments while they do not prevent the government from bringing the bill to a successful conclusion. The attitude of the majority may seem incomprehensible; it is not only incomprehensible but also silent, since the majority has not been heard for seven hundred hours, apart from Mr Friart. It is therefore an incomprehensible and silent majority. But there is a very clear explanation, ladies and gentlemen. On November 30, 2015, the Prime Minister, Minister Marghem and Mr.Mestrallet, the CEO of ENGIE, initialled this bill. They then shook hands, smiled in front of the cameras. We all remember those morning pictures. On that day, the government promised Electrabel and ENGIE that the bill would be passed, without Members of Parliament being able to change any comma. It doesn't matter if the Council of State is asking to amend the text; it doesn't matter if the private lawyers paid very much by the minister are asking to amend the bill; it doesn't matter if parliamentarians are asking to amend the legislation to protect the state and taxpayers; the government and the majority have chained up to Electrabel and have no room for manoeuvre, they are tied feet and fists, they are the vassals of Electrabel!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u150	Mrs Lalieux, for my part, I think it is the Di Rupo government and its minister of energy cdH Mr Wathelet who were in the pay of Electrabel three years ago. Indeed, the agreement they concluded at the time has not yet brought a euro back to the state, whereas the one we are talking about today, which concerns Doel 1 and 2, will bring him 20 million a year. A second reason why they were certainly at the Electrabel boot is that at that time, the price of electricity was much higher than now. So this convention should have brought much more, while it does not bring back anything at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u151	Yes, precisely, since the price of electricity has decreased.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u152	This means that Minister Marghem and the government, in a much more difficult context, were able to be respected by Electrabel, unlike the Di Rupo government and, in particular, Mr. Wathelet at the time. It should also be noted that the day after the signing of the Doel 1 and 2 agreement, it was available to parliamentarians. On the other hand, the Tihange 1 convention has always remained classified. Therefore, everyone has to take responsibility for this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u153	Don't worry, Mr. Friart: we're taking them! Mr Friart, I am challenging you a little. At the end of my speech, I will propose that you demonstrate that you are not feet and fists related to Electrabel. I will propose this to the majority. I haven't been here for sixty years – fortunately! –, but there is something we have never seen. Two projects are attached to this convention – I also include the mathematical formulas that appear in it and that will be the subject of a third bill – the first of which was voted without it being possible to change it from an iota. Why? Because it was signed by three parties, including a dominant private operator. This is also the case. You know the conditions better than I do. If we change a word, we break the convention. So, Mr Friart, you – as well as the majority and the minister – will be able to demonstrate your full independence from Electrabel earlier. Then we will see what your attitude will be. In fifteen years of parliamentary presence, I have never seen a government submit to a multinational of this kind. I no longer have any hope that Mrs Marghem will question herself, but I ask the parliamentary majority to accept the amendments in order to protect the state and protect taxpayers. With sp.a, we have tabled three amendments to respond to these legitimate and reasoned comments of the Council of State. The first amendment is intended to prevent the federal State, and therefore the Belgian taxpayer, from paying compensation to Electrabel if a judicial decision requires Doel 1 and Doel 2 to be closed. You know that there are many remedies before the courts. The second amendment allows the federal state to impose additional investments in the safety of nuclear power plants without the risk of having to pay compensation to Electrabel. For example, investments are needed to meet the new seismic standards that are not foreseen at this stage in the 700 million works. The third amendment relates to the problem of State aid. In its opinion, the Council of State addresses the government and parliament with a very clear message. The Council of State tells the government that it is obliged to notify the draft law and the Convention to the European Commission. The Council of State addressed Parliament by saying that the law could not enter into force until the European Commission had completed its investigation and had not taken a decision as to whether it was State aid. I hope that the parliamentarians of the majority will refuse to fit in the suit that the government, and especially ENGIE, has drawn for them and that they will agree to amend the law. I do not appeal to the MR, but I appeal to the common sense of the CD&V. The government promised Electrabel that Parliament would not have a say and we will see if it has a say later. It's a shameful gift that was made to Electrabel, it's a democratic hold-up. I invite the majority to prove me wrong. I invite them to prove that they are free to improve this bill and that they are not tied feet and fists. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after these legal questions and amendments, I come to the substance of the draft. In the second part of my speech, I will explain my group's position on the desirability of this project from a political and energy point of view. To judge the appropriateness of this project, at least four questions need to be asked. First question: Is this law necessary from the point of view of security of supply of electricity? Second question: does this law speed up the energy transition? Question 3: Is this law strengthening nuclear safety? Finally, on the fourth question, is this law positive for consumers? For the PS, the answers to these four questions are four times "no". First, no, this law is not necessary to ensure security of supply. Doel 1 and Doel 2 can close immediately without endangering our country's electricity supply. To affirm this, I am basing myself on the most recent findings of DG Energy, Elia and CREG. In November 2015 and April 2016, the electricity system operator published two studies, which indicate that the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2 this year will not cause any problems. I also recall that CREG conducted a winter 2014-15 analysis. This analysis showed that there was no shortage during this winter, while the two large Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors were both unavailable. I'll remind you that today they're working. Despite the many debates in the Committee on the Economy, the government has never, ever, been able – I hope it can always try now – to demonstrate that Doel 1 and Doel 2 are indispensable for our energy supply. The majority keeps saying that Doel 1 and Doel 2 should be extended to avoid blackout. We all know that the security of supply argument has been absurd since the restart of Tihange 2 and Doel 3. Elia's latest study, from 2017 to 2027, mentions that electricity needs are covered for several more years. It is only from 2023, when the reactors are closed, that our electricity requirements will be increased. The second question is whether this law will speed up the energy transition. The answer is obviously "no". With this law, this government locks our country in its dependence on nuclear energy. The maintenance of Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors is a threat to new investments in non-nuclear production units. All alternative operators admitted this, except the dominant operator. For us, on the contrary, we need to create an air call by gradually closing, as the previous government had foreseen, nuclear power plants. If the seven nuclear reactors are kept on the market, new investments will never find their place. Moreover, there is a great hypocrisy behind this project. The government continues to claim to want to leave nuclear power in 2025, but changes the timetable to make it almost impossible. For us, this is a real deceit to the people. I would also like to be shown how we can close seven nuclear reactors in less than two years. I now turn to the third question to be asked. Does this law strengthen nuclear safety? Once again, the answer is clearly "no". It is clear that our country is more dangerous with seven nuclear reactors than with five, especially since the service life of the two oldest reactors has been extended. It's common sense, but it'll probably be contested. The government now has the opportunity to reduce the nuclear risk to the population, workers and the environment by closing these two reactors. Unfortunately, the government refused to do so and instead chose to submit to the nuclear lobby. With this unnecessary extension, the community will also have to assume a greater accumulation of nuclear waste. We will have another great debate in this Parliament, Madam Minister, on nuclear supplies, which do not augur well. It is a financial and environmental burden, Minister, for future generations that can be avoided or at least reduced today. For the PS, we must seize the opportunity to reduce the nuclear risk as it is possible immediately. Finally, the fourth and final question: is this law positive for consumers? Here too, the answer is clearly negative. When we look at all of the government's decisions, we see that the consumer is not at the centre of our concerns, but Electrabel, who is now the big winner. Electrabel earns €180 million with the government's decision to reduce fines to combat the non-use of electricity production sites. Electrabel also earns hundreds of millions of euros with the reduction of the nuclear rent on the Tihange 2 and 3 and Doel 3 and 4 reactors. We will have an opportunity to discuss this as part of your next bill. Finally Electrabel will also win hundreds of millions of euros with the questioning of the exit of nuclear power and the maintenance of its monopolistic position in this country. Consumers, on the other hand, are not entitled to bill reductions, but to increases, with VAT being increased from 6 % to 21 % and intercommunal taxation at ISOC. This is the government's choice: consumers have an increase in VAT, distribution system operators (DSOs) too, but Electrabel is seeing a decrease in what it owes to the state. Of course, the government has realized the imbalance in its policy. To convince the population, he then claimed that Electrabel was committed to investing €4.3 billion in the energy transition, in exchange for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. What we see today is that neither the bill nor the convention contains any legal obligation to compel Electrabel to invest $4.3 billion in our country. Minister, where are those $4.3 billion? Where is Electrabel's signature proving that Electrabel will invest this money in our country? It's a promise in the air, wind, communication, it's nothing else. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been over a year and a half since we have been working on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. We have seen the counter-truths, when the government claims that Doel 1 and Doel 2 are indispensable to avoid blackout. We have seen contempt for public institutions - Mr Friart is the example here in plenary - public institutions which, like the Council of State, defend the general interest. We have seen the submission of the government and the majority to the forces of money, with the red carpet carried out at Electrabel and ENGIE. We have seen hypocrisy towards the population, when we pretend to maintain the exit of nuclear power in 2025 when we are doing everything we can to call it into question. After more than a year and a half of work on this bill, the prevailing feeling, minister, is a huge waste of time and resources. Instead of preparing for this energy transition – in 2015, then in 2016, 2017 – the government has been trying to extend two small nuclear reactors, two old nuclear reactors that are totally useless for the security of supply of our country. Yet another way is possible. There are alternatives. In order to guarantee our security of supply in the medium term, we must close Doel 1 and Doel 2, in order to send a signal to investors and prove to them that Belgium is credible in its project to leave nuclear power, which it is not today. The government and the majority, including CD&V, refuse to seize this opportunity and lose valuable years as the energy transition race is launched elsewhere in Europe and the world. It is a missed opportunity, it is an irresponsible choice and citizens will pay the price in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u154	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago, on June 18, 2015, our Assembly approved the principle of extending the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors. Mr. Jean-Michel Nollet was not there that day... Mr. Jean-Marc Nollet was not there that day. He's his cousin!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u155	Mr Friart, dear Albert Friart, a little serious! I know that with the Council of State it is already difficult to stay in correct words about what has been said. But here, Mr Friart, I suppose you are referring to the excellent colleague Mr Jean-Marc Nollet. That is to be certain, for the report, so that the President can possibly correct it. He can do it, he has that power. He'll do it. It is just to be sure that for the rest of your text, Mr Friart, you will be accurate, correct and attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u156	All this to say that Jean-Marc Nollet was not there and that on that day it was precisely that of the historic reconstruction of the Battle of Waterloo, on the battlefield of Braine-l'Alleud dear to our friend Vincent Scourneau. Squeezing the collapse of Ecolo during the vote that took place that day, perhaps Jean-Marc Nollet had joined Napoleon in his defeat and had gone into exile with him. No, I don't! On Tuesday morning, he returned to parliament. More seriously, the bill we are inviting you to vote on today is part of this extension. It marks the federal government's commitment to secure and secure the energy supply of our citizens and, above all, our businesses. I would like to come back here to some of the elements related to this bill, first of all to welcome the transparency of the Minister of Energy. Unlike the Tihange 1 convention – classified document – the Di Rupo government and the cdH Melchior Wathelet at the head of Energy, as I said earlier, this agreement was made public the day after it was signed. Let's talk about Tihange 1. During the parliamentary proceedings concerning Doel 1 and 2, the opposition regularly criticized the government's choice to opt for an annual flat fee of 20 million, which will be used to finance the Energy Transition Fund. One can only be surprised at such an attitude. Tihange 1, whose royalty is linked to the price of electricity, has not yet brought a euro to the State and is not close to doing so. All this will last a few more years and we really had to deal with amateurs during this transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u157	Mr. Friart, there's an interruption of Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u158	Mr President, let him finish with Tihange 1 and I will react.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u159	In addition, for Tihange 1, the annual fee is the result of a very complicated formula in which the owner's investment is paid at 9.5%, while for Doel 1 and 2, it is expected that the owner will bear the risks of temporary unavailability of his plant alone as well as the price risk. Unlike Tihange, in the present case, the State obtains the right to compensation if the owner fails to comply with his commitments, including the realization of the investments of youth. Apart from security and safety cases, the owner will not be able to stop Doel 1 and Doel 2 permanently or temporarily without the prior written consent of the State. In the face of these improvements to the Doel 1 and Doel 2 convention compared to Tihange 1, the opposition essentially criticized the draft law on the question of possible State aid and on the question of prior notification to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u160	Mr. Friart, you have an interruption of Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u161	Mr Friart, you finished with Tihange 1 and I listened with great attention. I remind you of a few things. If you remember correctly, the MR was in the government that actually decided this extension of Tihange 1. To refresh your memory, I would remind you that Tihange 1's fee is linked to the price of electricity and that it has just come into effect. Remember, check out the websites: the price of electricity was at the lowest in years. Let us recall, in the long run, there is a good chance that this will go back. Then, the 20 million of the current royalty will appear very low, especially in view of the unthinkable fall in the nuclear rent tax and the evolution of the price of nuclear energy. Mr Friart, would you like to do a little exercise with me about the nuclear rent tax? We are sure that the state loses hundreds of millions there. I say it again: hundreds. Mr Friart, are you proud of this situation? You're displacing the state. As a reminder, the Constitutional Court and the government of which the MR was a member have always won in the nuclear tax appeals, three times. On three occasions, things are defined and consolidated: admit that you are diverting that amount. You accuse us of not being independent of Electrabel, but you divert this money to Electrabel. It's so true, Mr Friat, don't be naive that your government, the minister and the Prime Minister had Gérard Mestrallet sign the convention. It is to such an extent that the document is signed before the bill ends in our Parliament. It is signed by Gérard Mestrallet, President and CEO of ENGIE. This is obviously the indisputable proof of your independence from the operator! Let's stop laughing, Mr. Friart! By your decision, you are in the process of penetrating the state for the benefit of a private operator and at the expense of consumers. I really wanted to put things back in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u162	Dear Mr. de Lamotte, I think you're right next to your pumps. In 2013, when the convention was signed, the price of electricity was much higher than today, and already at the time, it did not earn anything. This is the Tihange 1 Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u163	You say anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u164	Mr de Lamotte, I ask you to remain silent. Let me say something. This means that in 2013, with the price of electricity that was much higher than today, the convention did not earn anything. The price of electricity may continue to decline. When will it increase? Maybe in 2027 or 2028. This agreement that your minister has signed will never bring back anything to the state. In this case, thanks to the insight and willingness of the minister and the government, we are sure to receive $20 million a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u165	Mr. Friart, you're doing an exercise that you haven't been asked to do. Having said that, we must see the convention as a whole. Today, we are talking only about a bill of 20 million euros. I would remind you that Mr Paul Magnette was so disputed that he had been able to impose a fee of 500 million euros. That's how $3 billion went into the state coffers. Mr. Friart, I'm not gonna get mad. I suggest you wait for the Minister's royalty project. You will then see that the balance will be broken. Your 20 million euros and the amount of your fee will be no less than peanuts compared to what the state has collected in recent years. As Mr. de Lamotte said, every time Electrabel went to the Constitutional Court to challenge this royalty, the state won. In these circumstances, why want to change things? Unless you are ideologically in favour of nuclear power, you have obtained the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 by reducing the fee. Be honest, Mr. Friart! I loved the transparency shown by the minister. This transparency was such that we quickly found ourselves faced with a convention as well as with annexes with two bills signed. Tell me, Mr Friart, who are also a "old" parliamentarian, do you remember any bills signed by a private company, a multinational before they were even tabled on the table of government and parliament? Have you ever seen this? Not me. Then explain to me how we were linked to Electrabel, but not this government – and in particular the three M: Michel, Marghem and Mestrallet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u166	I'll try to put things back in place. Mr Friart, the T 1 convention had been established on the basis of the price of electricity. If the agreement had remained at the same level as in 2013, it would now be worth 100 million. I have done the calculation; do it in your turn. We're far from it. I would like to remind you that the entry into force of the T 1 Convention is only a few months old. In the case you mention, if the state does not touch anything – as you blame it – neither does Electrabel. You have therefore agreed, by this amendment, to lose money.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u167	I will react in two stages to Mrs Lalieux's intervention. First, the distribution contribution has been decreasing for years, since the price of electricity is falling and the State cannot be confiscatory in this respect. Secondly, Doel 1 and Doel 2 had to take into account the 700 million investments in youth, which would be amortized in ten years, not in forty, as was the case for nuclear power plants. Mr de Lamotte, I recognize you well here: you work with "if", in politician. In business, we don't work with "if." When you want to take on your responsibilities, you work with concrete, from the real. I'll leave you with your "if." If this is the way you manage your party and you intend to run the country, then the country may be in a bad position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u168	Mr Friart, the more I hear you in the gallery, the more you seem to be playing Mrs Irma. You look in the coffee marc what the future will set for us. Believe that it is not with "if" that I am working, but with conventions that have been adopted by the rulers and with an evolution in the price of electricity – and you know that. In addition, you confuse Tihange 1 in 2013 with the current entry into force of the convention with the price of electricity, which is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u169	Mr Friart, you are so critical of the text that we are not talking about today on Tihange 1. Then why did your party adopt it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u170	Mr. de Lamotte, I didn't use the word "if." If you want to play Mrs. Irma, it suits you. In politics, you use "if" but in business, we need concrete and we don't use that word when we want to deal with things. We are here in the concrete and it is an agreement that has been excellently concluded for the country, with concrete things, not with your "if". Mr. Nollet, we were actually in the government, as well as the PS, and it was the CDH who held the position of Minister of Energy. So I guess it was the cdH that handled it at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u171	Mr Friart, I will confine myself to raising figures. You won't blame me for reading them. I think you can draw your own conclusions. The evolution of nuclear interest rates is as follows: in 2012 550 million, in 2013 481 million, in 2014 471 million. Following the Electrabel lifetime extension deal of Objective 1 and Objective 2....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These figures speak for themselves, and you should not now come up with your explanation of the calculation and so on. You have made a deal with Electrabel and these figures show very clearly why this deal was concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u172	Mrs Temmerman, in fact, the rent and the royalty contribution are only decreasing, since the price of electricity is necessarily decreasing. The power plants were shut down for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u173	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u174	Moreover, there is an investment of EUR 700 million that must be amortised with electricity prices that are well below what they were five years ago. I guess we're not going to spend the whole night on this. I think it's clear. We will recall that the minister has developed in committee the constitutional and European case law at length to justify the government's position that it cannot, here, be a question of state aid. Furthermore, reference can be made to article 8.2 of the Convention, under which, if the operator failed to fulfil his obligations, the State would be entitled to compensation corresponding to compensation for direct damage. Therefore, there is indeed a duty of compensation on the part of the owner if the owner fails to comply with his obligations. Moreover, the Convention does not provide for a direct or indirect mechanism of guaranteed performance in favour of the operator, since the operator himself bears the full risks of the market on the one hand and the industrial risks on the other hand related to the operation of the nuclear power plants concerned. It was therefore in no way necessary to make a pre-notification. However, the Minister's approach to the European Commission and the responses to the 18 questions raised by DG Competition will be recalled. This is part of the government's short-, medium- and long-term strategy to ensure the sustainability of our energy supply, a measure that is needed both for our citizens and for our businesses. This is done within a clear legal framework that ensures a return to the state. There is no doubt that the nuclear contribution that we will soon have to vote on will be part of this same dynamic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u175	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will intervene from my bank and try to keep my speech short, because I fear that I will repeat something that may have happened a lot in committee, because this draft law has been for long discussions and debates in committee. However, the design is very simple. It lays down an annual fee of EUR 20 million, which the operator of the nuclear power plants Objective 1 and Objective 2 must pay to the State for 10 years. Today's debate is about that annual fee. I understand that some people always want to talk about security of supply again, but that is not the case today. I won't be talking about it today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first time that we have had to set up compensation in return for the extension of a nuclear power plant. We have also had a debate of this kind in the previous legislative term, and several speakers have already referred to it. Then it was about the annual fee in return for the extension of Tihange 1. Compared to the extension of Tihange 1, we have made a number of other choices. We may have learned something, too. At Tihange 1, as Mr Friart has already said, a formula was adopted based on higher electricity prices. Admittedly, CD&V has approved it, just like sp.a, PS, Open Vld, MR and cdH. We must be honest and say that everyone who approved this was convinced that this was a good thing. After all, we all assumed that we would be faced with higher electricity prices in the coming years. However, what do we see? There is an unexpected downward trend in prices, which is, of course, a good thing for consumers. But that means that the compensation that was set for Tihange 1 so far does not pay much or nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we obviously do not know what the future will bring. Let us be honest, none of us can predict what electricity prices will look like in five years' time, 10 years' time, 15 years' time, 20 years' time. We have now opted for a forfait, so that we are sure of revenue for the State. It seems to me to be a good combination with two systems: on the one hand, the lump sum for Objective 1 and Objective 2, on the other hand, a formula, depending on the electricity price, for Tihange 1. In this way, we are safe from the uncertainty of low electricity prices, and this also allows us to have much more nuclear interest when electricity prices are higher. This seems to us to be a healthy spread of the risk, which may arise from price fluctuations. Another important difference from the Tihange 1 agreement is that this time no remuneration of 9.3 % was provided for on the amounts invested by the operators. Moreover, the managers cannot decide on an early cessation of Objective 1 and Objective 2, which was the case with Tihange 1. Last but not least, the Belgian State can now also receive compensation if the owner fails to comply with his obligations. This was also not the case with Tihange 1. Let's be very clear. CD&V will approve both the Tihange 1 and Objective 1 and Objective 2. We are convinced that both agreements have their merits. That's why they're getting our support. We are very honest in that, even with the eyes of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now getting EUR 20 million a year. It is very important that these resources are used usefully and that we prepare for the energy transition. We therefore welcome the fact that these EUR 20 million per year will be used in full to stimulate and support research and development for innovative production and storage projects. We regret, however, that it is still not clear at this stage which projects can be eligible, on what basis, and on what criteria will be used for the selection of these projects. Actually, we'd rather know that by now. According to the Minister, these modalities will be further defined in a royal decree. We hope to clarify this quite quickly. Finally, I would like to raise another concern which, like other Members of this House, we have already expressed in committee: does the extension not push renewable energy out of the market in the event of a possible surplus? We also discussed this in committee. The Minister has confirmed that the merit order is still being followed, with the grid being powered by renewable energy as a priority. There is also a potential risk of electricity surpluses in the period July and August in the ENTSO-E report. According to the report, this can lead to problematic situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u176	Mrs Dierick, I apologize for interrupting you, but I'm only doing that because you're touching an important point. It argues for you and your file knowledge that you are touching the recent report of ENTSO-E in the debate. It's true. The report once again highlights the potential risk of overproduction. I cannot say that this is a completely new element, because that is part of the study of the administration Energy following the lifetime extension of Tihange 1. They then looked ahead to the coming years and warned of the problem of overproduction at days of low demand, a lot of wind and lots of sunshine. So this is not a new element. Do you not think it is a little strange that, a day after the report is published, the day after it is brought to the attention of the House, Parliament should still be given the green light for the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2? That is crazy, isn't it, that we are moving towards a situation in which we should switch off renewable energy because of the massive production of inflexible nuclear power plants, because we can't get away with it, because our network doesn't have enough flexibility. If you have read the report of ENTSO-E, can you vote for it with conviction today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u177	Mr Calvo, thank you for complimenting me on asking sensible questions and knowing the file. I think there are few reports that can guarantee security of supply within five to ten years. There's only a preview in three years. We have taken it for granted and voted in favour of an extension of 10 years, so that we have that certainty. I think you can also agree with me that the energy market is a very rapidly changing market. Just think of the recently decided closure of biomass plants. No one knew of this at the time we decided to extend the nuclear power stations. Those are all new data. That is why we are in favour of examining whether there will actually be electricity surpluses. That is also part of our resolution that we will table. No one can give guarantees about that now. That is why we have decided on an extension. However, we would like to examine how we can possibly offer a solution to electricity surpluses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u178	Mrs Dierick, once again, I am in a very constructive mood. I have also read your resolution, and you may remember that I asked for urgency to discuss it quickly, so that the flexibility of our nuclear park can be examined quickly. You cannot claim that what you are doing today is logically in line with the other positions you are taking. There may not be any studies that map over-production until 2025 or 2030, but it is an established fact that the share of renewable energy will increase simply by implementing the offshore plans. Therefore, if we are warned today about over-production and lack of flexibility, this risk will only increase. But what are you doing? You're in control of that risk. You are making it uncertain for the players of renewable energy. Then you can write as many resolutions as you like and ask questions. I continue to congratulate you on asking the right questions, but once in a while we also need the right answers from the Minister. The lifetime extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2 is a wrong answer and makes things even more difficult. The position of CD&V in this is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u179	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u180	Mr Van Rompuy, I should also like to remind you that your group said that it would never reopen the tear-up plants or approve the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. That was a solemn promise on the CD&V communion soul. Today, however, crack plants are reopened and the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 are extended. Honestly, I don't understand. Therefore, Mrs Dierick, I think we are about to make a historic mistake, which we in our country will suffer for many years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u181	Mr Calvo, I do not want to repeat myself. The debate on security of supply has been held several times in committee. That is not a matter for discussion either. I understand that you always want to play the same record, but I would ask you to stop doing so now. We're discussing nuclear interest now. Let us focus on what is now ahead. That's gonna be interesting, too, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u182	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u183	Yes, about ENTSO-E and about the possible surpluses. I suggested we get that checked out. I'm afraid you can predict all that. I'm not that psychic. Obviously, you can predict that we will still have surpluses in ten years' time. I don't have that knowledge; I apologize. I can't believe you're so smart about that either. In any case, I am pleased that you agree with me that it needs to be examined, so you are interested in my resolution on the modulation of nuclear power plants. By the way, that position was also expressed by the Minister. It is a good thing that this week the newspapers said that the operators are doing the same. So I can only hope that we can discuss this in a positive way in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u184	Mr Calvo replied because you started this overproduction debate. You're the one who said it. You talked about security of supply; no study shows that we need Doel 1 and 2. I would like to take this as evidence of the very title of the bills introduced by the minister. So today, are you convinced that Doel 1 and 2 are necessary for the security of supply of this country? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u185	I am speaking to Mrs Dierick, Mr Van Rompuy; you did not follow the debate and did not read the study. I'm following you when you talk about Finance. I am speaking to the person who knows the file very well, which we recognize.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u186	Colleague, there is also no study that guarantees in the long term that we will have enough without Objective 1 and Objective 2. There are only studies that make forecasts for the next three years. What happens after that isn't written in black and white. That is why we have taken it for granted and have decided to extend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u187	Mrs Dierick, in 2013, you and other parties voted to close Doel 1 and Doel 2. In soul and conscience, did you feel at that time that you were going to undermine security of supply? You know that Tihange 2 and Doel 3 took over today. All of a sudden, I don't understand this turnaround. If there had been no change of government or extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, you would be in the process of the previous government. I didn't hear any arguments. I am a very pragmatic and sensible person. Give us an argument, while Doel 3 and Tihange 2 are working today, to justify that we need these two small reactors. There are none, except that this summer, a surplus of electricity caused difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u188	Mr President, a small addition to what Mrs Lalieux said. There are certainly no studies that show that we need these reactors, but there are studies that show that, by reopening Objectives 1 and 2, we are making a claim on alternative energy. It can't be profitable right now...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u189	What studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u190	There are studies that show this. There should be no study for this. If one simply knows the market and knows that there is actually far too much energy, then one knows that no investor is interested in investing in alternative energy. You know market forces much better than we do. So this is just a wrong decision. You may try to rectify this in all kinds of ways, but history will agree with us. I still wonder how Mrs Marghem will achieve her objectives on renewable energy and environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u191	Mr President, I believe that we can debate this for a long time to come. Mrs Temmerman, you say that this is a wrong decision, but it is a decision taken by a majority of Parliament. We can debate this for hours, but it is perhaps a good thing that this majority decision will be respected afterwards. There are also positive effects on the decision on Objectives 1 and 2. For example, it can bring down the strategic reserve. After all, this means a cost for the electricity bill. Moreover, prices have fallen, and this seems to me to be positive for consumers and companies investing in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that Mr Calvo is prepared to discuss my motion for a resolution on the modulation of energy. I read in the newspaper that the operators are working on it. That too is a good thing. I hope that we will be able to clarify this quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this for a long time and I sincerely hope that we can turn this page today. There's still a lot of work on the shelf. I believe that we are all convinced that we really need a clear and stable energy policy aimed at the long term. No more ad hoc decisions, but a clear plan with a vision. No more stop-and-go decisions, because this affects the investment climate. Our investors need clarity and a long-term vision. The International Energy Agency also recently said that Belgium needs a long-term vision. They say nothing new about it. CD&V has also been asking for a long time to conclude a pact. We hope that this can be approved tonight so that time is available in committee to continue working on our energy vision and our energy pact. This is clearly stated in the coalition agreement. We can only insist that this happens very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u192	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I am very pleased that you are bringing up the energy pact. That is also a point that we can certainly share. I do not want to be indiscreet, but if I am not mistaken, you have negotiated the government agreement for your party on these issues. So you will no doubt remember what the specific text on the Energy Pact was. There was also a timing in the coalition agreement. What was that timing again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u193	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u194	I hope you turned on the micro just in time, so that your answer will certainly be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u195	The timing was 2015. I learned my lesson well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u196	It is very important that you repeat that timing here. Mrs Marghem, the fact that Mrs Dierick also wants to give that timing through the micro shows that she supports my nervousness and perhaps even my incomprehension for your total inactivity in the field of the energy pact. What are we going through now? The coalition agreement states that the government may extend the life of the power stations. What it would certainly do during the first year of the legislature was to write an energy pact. That's what the coalition agreement says. Mrs Dierick, you negotiated with me. Today, we are working for more than a year, the government is extending the life of the power stations and perhaps there will be an energy pact. In this way, you have been put in the bag by the nuclear party, which is still the MR today. CD&V has taken incredible steps in this area. Once the CVP was CD&V now the big pronuclear party here in the hemisphere. Mr Van Rompuy, when you were young, those links between CD&V and the nuclear sector were also very close. Not so long ago, Mr Verherstraeten ran down all the offices of Brussels to advocate MYRRHA. Then CD&V was the big nuclear party. The most recent elections were the first elections in which CD&V suggested that the core move of the Greens actually went and that the party was not against it in principle. So you've already taken steps. However, Mrs Dierick, you have had the whole thing sabotaged by other government parties. Mrs Marghem did not want to write that energy pact. She did not want to sit down at the table with Mrs Turtelboom, when she was still Flemish Minister for Energy. What, however, has she done? It extended the life of the power stations. The coalition agreement you have negotiated has thus been totally sabotaged over the past few months and years by the MR Party and by that other pronuclear party, which has taken over the role of the CVP, in particular the N-VA. They don't want that nuclear trip. That is why they have mortgaged and sabotaged the writing process of the energy pact in recent times. So you've been rolled, which is unfortunate. Even more regrettable, however, is the fact that we, the Belgian citizens, are all involved, especially those who invest in energy alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u197	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of a bad course this evening. We started last year, on 17 March, when the government submitted its first bill for the ten-year extension of the nuclear power plants Objective 1 and Objective 2. So the dossier we are discussing has been dragging on for over a year. In the meantime, we have been debating this for several hours in committee and in plenary. Our position has always been very clear, in particular that the extension of nuclear power stations is not necessary for the supply of energy and is even detrimental to renewable energy. So far we have not been able to convince the majority parties and the minister of this. However, over the past year we have held numerous hearings and consulted, and all the independent bodies say exactly the same as we do. All independent bodies have consistently delivered negative opinions. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, not listening to the opposition is almost obvious, isn't it, Mr Lachaert? It is remarkable, however, that you always take the advice of bodies such as the Council of State, the CREG and even the FANC side-by-side. That is what we were talking about just now with Mr Friart. I will go over the opinions again, because this is not insignificant. Let us begin with that of the Council of State. As regards last year's first draft law, the Council of State has repeatedly confirmed the need to launch an EIA or an environmental impact procedure, with a public consultation. That was not approved at the time; you simply placed it next to you. The FANC, however, the independent body of which you follow all the advice regarding the reopening of tear-up plants, was originally of the opinion that an EIA and a public consultation were needed first. That is what we have to say. However, the FANC was flagged back by the government itself, and that is one of the reasons why we in Parliament will soon be discussing an audit of the possible political influence of the FANC. I'm following the sequence of events. Even before the submission of your first draft law last year, Madam Minister, Elia, the network manager, had made it very clear that the extension of the life of the nuclear power plants is not necessary for the security of supply because I repeat, if both plants were to be shut down by the same item 1 000 megawatts of energy could be imported from the Netherlands. That's even more than the 800 megawatts of Objectives 1 and 2 put together. The so-called lack of power, with which you, the government and the majority of my fellow Members each time, is therefore a false argument. Elia even says in his most recent report on security of supply that the decision to keep Objectives 1 and 2 open means that there is much more capacity on the Belgian electricity market than necessary. Madam Secretary, did you follow these advices? Did you draw your conclusions from that report? Not again. The CREG, the energy regulator, clearly also disagreed with the argument of the capacity problem. It warned that the extension of life would threaten the investment climate and renewable alternative sources of energy. Did you appreciate that advice? No. You also put that next to you. The European Commission's DG Competition has already referred to you and Mrs Lalieux has asked 18 critical questions to you, Madam Minister, specifically about this draft law. This is part of the investigation into possible unlawful State aid. The European Commission also has doubts about the need to extend the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 for security of supply. For example, the Commission is asking very literally whether you can explain in detail why Belgium needs this 1 000 megawatt energy, even after it has decided to reopen the Tihange 2 and Objective 3 nuclear power stations. Madam Minister, this is not an innocent question, it is not a question of simply getting an answer, it is a question of doubting the necessity. Otherwise, the European Commission would not ask that question. It doubts the need to extend the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. The European Commission is apparently reading and taking the reports of Elia and the CREG seriously, unlike you and the government. She is in doubt because she knows that there is enough energy and that there is no need to extend the lifespan. So it does not understand why Belgium is extending the life of these nuclear power plants. In view of the chronological order, I come again to an opinion from the Council of State. Following the Council of State's criticism of your first draft law and his call for an EIA, which you ignored, the second opinion following the amendments we tabled in connection with the investigation of unlawful state aid follows. Just as this government itself did with the carat tax, the question was also here to postpone its entry into force. I read the Council of State's opinion literally just now. Madam Secretary, the Council of State agrees with us for 100 percent. I am going to repeat the opinion because, as the majority says, there seems to be an interpretation option. The opinion is as follows: "...which implies that the measure cannot be implemented until the European Commission has completed its investigation." The second quotation is very important: if, despite what has been said above, the Court would like to complete the legislative process, then an amendment is essential to postpone entry into force. Madam Minister, the opinion of the Council of State is very clear. In fact, the majority could do nothing but approve the amendment in committee. However, this opinion, the last one in a row, was ignored by the government, like the other opinions. Madam Secretary, what was the argument you used in committee not to follow this opinion? You simply said that the formal procedure is not yet in place; that what has now been done and the questions that have been asked is actually informal. Well, that answer's twice wrong. First of all, the carat tax was not in the formal procedure at the time, and then it was done. In addition, this is an important new element, however, there is a formal procedure before the European Commission because a complaint has been lodged by a number of renewable energy companies. So there is a formal procedure. So the argument doesn't go on, Madam Secretary. Your argument is false. It is false and it is particularly embarrassing, because why can't you approve the amendment? Mrs Lalieux referred to it as well. You cannot do that because of the signature of Mr Mestrallet, who has been put under the bill. Mr Mestrallet has contributed to the legislative proposal, my fellow Members. They see it here. The bill was initialled by him. He wrote along. There is an agreement that nothing should be changed. That's the real reason you're so stubborn. So, members of the majority, try not to find any argument. What I have shown here is simply the argument. Of course we know that too. So nothing will change. Electrabel's will is for government law. A second case I would like to mention is the monopoly position. The government creates a monopoly, drives a player in the market and pushes away all the other players. The overproduction that drives the other producers out of the market prevents new investments in any way. We have been saying for months that there is a risk of overproduction. Madam Secretary, of course you do not have to listen to the opposition, but so does Elijah. Just a few days ago, the European high-voltage system operator also confirmed this. At peak moments we produce almost 30%. This means that we are producing more than necessary. Even without the import capacity and the less stable production of sun and wind, we cover the peak questions. At more and more times during day and night, nuclear production will be sufficient to fully cover demand. At those moments no gas, no wind or sun will be needed. As the cost of switching off nuclear production is far too high, the government will more than ever cut off the supply via windmills and sun from the high-voltage grid. Madam Minister, you say that an investment climate is being created for investors in alternative energy, but you know the market much better than we do. With the extension of life, Madam Minister, you have overheated the energy market, due to a high level of overproduction. The alternatives are becoming uneconomic. Potential investors are dropping out. ENGIE, on the other hand, is forced to produce every day. This means that it has a legal right of priority and that in the case of surpluses the other forms of production must be stopped. The elimination of alternative forms of production, Madam Minister, is a subsidy for nuclear energy. This also increases market concentration. And that for a liberal minister! We have to do it! Our country has structural surpluses and they will be most palpable on days with reasonable winds and lots of sunshine. In other words, during the holiday the sun and perhaps also the wind, but certainly the sun, will be sent on holiday. We predicted that, Madam Secretary. Today, the International Agency says exactly the same thing. Again, you don't have to believe us, but you do have to believe that independent agency. Maybe it's good to listen to that. Madam Minister, there is a major difference in the government's treatment of the nuclear sector and the renewable sector. It's actually hallucinating. Production security is provided for the nuclear sector. The nuclear power stations run for everyone, because they are difficult to shut down. So, again, there is de facto subsidy. For the gas sector, the law provides for a subsidy. But who manages the gas plants in our country, Madam Secretary? Right, mostly ENGIE. This will undoubtedly have an impact on our energy factors. Once again, you are blocking the market and you are making the citizens pay for it. Instead of creating a market that makes gas energy profitable, in combination with wind and solar energy, which can guarantee good security of supply, the government opts for uncertain nuclear power stations, which no longer guarantee that the lamp will continue to burn in our country. The conclusion, Madam Minister, is that only nuclear energy can count on the support of the government and the government buries its alternative projects. Billions of investments that could be future-oriented will be thrown away in this way. I will conclude, Madam Minister, with another quote, because you are apparently not convinced by all the reports that have already been published. You are not convinced by the opposition, but that is not surprising, nor by the reports. I would like to quote from a report by the European Commission two weeks ago. I quote literally, in English: "Hampered the revised interruptions, Belgium's agent nuclear installations have become unreliable sources, while the revised revised time table for phasing out the nuclear park has created a climate that is not contained to long term investment decisions." Madam Minister, in summary, this sense of the European Commission is that nuclear energy is from the past and that we must make full use of renewable energy. Madam Minister, the vote on the proposed legislative text today is the sad end of a sad story. In the next four years, nothing will be invested in renewable energy. Belgium You are also responsible for climate change objectives. We will absolutely not be prepared for the core exit in 2023. But perhaps, Madam Minister, that was the intention and the legislative text is also the emanation of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u198	Mr President, I had planned to make an intervention on the matter before us, beginning with a reminder of all the problems that we have encountered in committee and highlighting the various issues at stake: the fact that this matter was out of order from an economic point of view, from a legal point of view and also from an environmental point of view. But, Mr President, I have just obtained the document that we have never received in committee. It is a document of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This is the document that normally had to reach Belgium before the government decided to extend nuclear power plants or not. For Tihange 1, since Mr. Friart referred to it earlier, the government of the time had respected the classical chronology, namely, first to ask the International Atomic Energy Agency what it thought, to consider the recommendations, to follow those recommendations. For Doel 1 and Doel 2, Madam Minister, your government "bypassed" the International Agency and decided to launch the extension before even waiting for what the International Atomic Energy Agency thought of the extension. During all the debates in Parliament, in committee – and the chairman is present with us – I asked to have access to this report, to this document. You told me you haven't received it yet, the last answer being, "It's in the diplomatic suitcase and you'll receive it as soon as we get it." Minister, at the end of the afternoon I was able to obtain this document. I guess you read it. Have you ever read it? Minister, I ask you whether you have already read this document from the International Atomic Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u199	Mr. Nollet, the minister will respond after all the other speakers have been heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u200	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u201	You cannot compel the minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u202	Mr President, I am not aware of this report. I thank Mr Nollet for talking about it. I would ask him to pass it on to the Presidency, so that he can be on the benches of parliamentarians as soon as possible. The SALTO report had to be done, in accordance with European and international rules, before any extension of the power plant. The previous government met this obligation at the time of the extension of Tihange 1. The Minister has not done so, but this analysis is now available. It's nuclear, Mr. President. It is about the security of our country and of all its citizens. A simple response from the minister would tell us whether the government has received this report and whether it can comment on it. It's important. Anyway, I want to receive it here and now. For it is not outside the subject, but precisely on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u203	Mr President, I understand that it is customary for the Minister to reply at the end of the journey, but it is not so common for a document to appear during the discussion of such an important draft which various groups have been pursuing and asking for during the discussion in committee. In this sense, Mr Nollet's question to Mrs Marghem is very important: does she or does she not know about that report? We just discovered the document in our mailbox. The ten comments made by the International Atomic Energy Agency on the safety of Objectives 1 and 2 are quite fundamental. It is said that the organizational structure is not in order. There's a lack of formed personnel. The LTO data is based on incomplete data. The comments are very fundamental. There's a copy coming up. It must be distributed on the banks, but the question to Mrs Marghem can best be answered as soon as possible. If the Minister has knowledge of that report, it is impossible today to ask Parliament to go further in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u204	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u205	Mrs Temmerman first asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u206	(...), one of the things we talked about last week is literally in that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u207	Mr President, I would certainly like to support the question put by my fellow Members. I think it's very important information. We will soon get the report and it will be distributed. I would ask you to suspend the sitting for a while so that we can take note of that report. If there are such matters, as has been said here, we must know that before we finally approve the extension of nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u208	Mr President, I am obviously very attentive to this document. Like my colleagues, I wanted to get it. Mr. Nollet announces it to us. When did it date? Can we have more details on the publication of this document? Is he recent, very recent? Has it been brought to the attention of each other? I would like answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u209	Mr de Lamotte, to answer your question, the only element that I have at this stage, but information still comes to us, is that a presentation of the report was made with the management of the company in February 2016, so before we finished our work in committee. I do not know exactly when the document which you will be given a copy of – and I see that this is happening – is exactly the date, but I can already tell you that ten fundamental remarks require elements of a response from the minister or her colleague from the Interior. We are here on nuclear security issues. I'll quote them. The team of experts identified key areas for improvement. The majority of the problems are related to the interruption of the LTO – worked in 2012, then interrupted between 2012 and 2015. Ten points were raised. The current organizational structure does not reflect the needs of aging management during the extension period. The continuous improvement of the aging management process is not established. Electrabel did not fully assess the knowledge and training required to perform all the authority and design roles in the change processes. Current plant programs have not been evaluated for their effectiveness in managing aging according to the nine principles of an effective program. The maintenance practices of electrical and IT equipment are not complete. Some storage practices for equipment and furniture in the vicinity of electrical and safety equipment may compromise operability during an earthquake. Remember, we talked about this at length in committee, Mr de Lamotte. Several databases are used for the evaluation of events within the scope of the LTO, but the process to ensure consistency of data between databases and completeness is not defined. There is no strategic human resources plan for the extension and dismantling period. This is a point on which my colleagues have also come back very regularly. There is no systematic plan for knowledge transfer. This can have a significant impact on the extension LTO file. Mr President, I tried to make a quick translation of a document that I have into English. I think you've received it now. It is a real problem. Madam Minister, your silence speaks volumes. You are not even able to tell me if you have received this document or read it. Mr President, I would ask that we translate the elements that I have made a free and personal translation of, and I apologize to my colleagues for that. I did so to ensure that they had the essential elements of the document. I have learned the lesson of our colleagues at the N-VA who rightly felt that an English document was not valid, and that a French document that was not translated into Dutch was not valid either. They made it clear to me in committee a few days ago. I ask you, Mr President, to interrupt the proceedings in order to have this document translated. You're not the one who's going to decide, Minister. You didn't want to intervene earlier. Madam Minister, you have asked for your right to silence, and I propose that you remain in that role. It's up to the president to answer and I'm talking to him. This concerns the organization of our work and I believe, Mr. Chairman, that the minister can stay out of it. Mr. Chairman, given the importance of our documents to the conduct of our business... Madam, you did not even know that you had received it. We must be able to distribute this document and translate it into both languages, otherwise the N-VA will refuse to work – we have lived it in committee and I would not like to relive it again. Secondly, in the Conference of Presidents, we will be able to decide how we will continue our work today or not, given the importance of the elements provided here. Minister, I regret that you did not distribute this report immediately. We agreed in committee that as soon as this report arrived, you would distribute it. You have not done so and you have hoped to move beyond the plenary session. Today we have this document and distribute it. Mr President, I ask you to translate it and distribute it to all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a number of important information to give you. That is why I let Mr Nollet go to the end of his speech. Indeed, if I had intervened earlier, he could have corrected his remarks. That's what he was expecting. It should be noted that this report was due to be sent to Belgium by 30 March 2016, which was the case. It should also be noted that – and Mr.Nollet knows very well – these documents are certified, therefore restricted access and cannot be issued publicly before 90 days from 30 March 2016. That's a first problem. On the other hand, you mentioned some lines of the summary, but nothing about the technical plan. I can tell you that this document echoes the comments already made by the AFCN in February 2016. This document does not include anything new from February 2016. As usual you suggest the idea of a scoop, at the last minute, when there are none – I just explained it – using documents that you cannot use publicly. This isn't the first time you've done it. It's a second element. In addition, you are mixing – as Mrs Dierick has explained very well – the financial consequences of the extension already completed since June 2015 of Doel 1 and Doel 2 with possible safety problems. In doing so, you are quite beside the plate on three aspects. And once again, I have to find out that to make the pleasure last, you mix the towels and the towels. I would therefore like us to return to the purpose of our work on the 20 million fee, the financial consequence of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 voted by this Parliament in June 2015. Finally, I would like to tell you that you will bear the consequences!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u211	Madam Secretary, you didn't want to say anything earlier, but you still feel like you have something to say. We were, of course, curious about what you would say about that. So you're saying you've had that report in your possession for a couple of months, but you didn't want to give it to me. Mr Delizée, how many weeks have we talked about this? SALTO was at the heart of our parliamentary debate. If we went through the report with Ctrl F, we could see how many times the SALTO mission was addressed during the discussion in the Business Committee. This has always been part of the debate. Just two weeks ago, we were talking about the earthquake risks for Objective 1 and Objective 2 in this hemisphere at the last committee meeting. You said there was no problem at the time. A report by the International Atomic Energy Agency is on the table today, which highlights, among other things, those seismic risks. So you have lied to Parliament over the last few weeks, because you had the report. You just confirmed that. You had the report and it would be made available as soon as it was there. Isn't that right, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u212	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u213	Mr. Miller, she promised the IAEA document as soon as it was available. That is stated in the report!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u214	Mr President, Minister, for weeks Parliament has asked for the documents of the SALTO mission. You replied that you would give them as soon as they arrived. Apparently, they've been in your possession for months. However, we have to look them up today. Moreover, you dare to say that these documents have nothing to do with the design. Mrs Dierick, are you prepared to support the fact that these documents have nothing to do with the bill before us? Colleagues, they have everything to do with it. They have everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u215	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat Mr Calvo's remarks. However, it is clear that the report was in your possession. You can now claim that it cannot be released. That doesn't really matter anymore. You laugh at the summary and claim she has nothing to do with the present design. Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is about security. This is no longer about whether you are for or against nuclear energy or whether you are for or against solar energy. That's not really what this is about anymore. This is about safety. We now have a document in our hands that says in black and white that if the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 is extended, these nuclear power stations pose a potential risk. (...): But no. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u216	Mr President, will we, Parliament, in your capacity as President and first citizen of the country and all of us together, ignore the risk of being black and white in the document and simply vote on the nuclear contribution here? Ladies and gentlemen, I really appeal to all of you to take this problem seriously. If an accident happens tomorrow, you won't be able to look at yourself in the mirror. You can still do that today. That risk is in black and white on paper. In addition, the Minister says: 'Mais enfin, ceñoestrien'. ........................................................................................ Madam Minister, Mr Nollet has, however, made an attempt to translate the content into French. However, I do not know if you understand what is in that document. You are once again pointing out that the document is from the International Nuclear Agency. So you are throwing it at the hopes of the Council of State, of the FANC, of Elijah and of the CREG. That's what's gonna happen. Madam Secretary, you are truly irresponsible. Mr President, I repeat, I appeal to you. We must take the matter seriously. I hope you do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u217	Mr President, like my colleagues, I am surprised by this last minute document. On the basis of the free translation made by our colleague, I believe that we should be able to analyse it calmly and peacefully. To that end, I would ask at least for a suspension of the sitting before possibly referring it to our work to verify it. We have asked, if you remember correctly, for the hearings of some people. We were denied them. Important technical documents are coming! It is a nuclear power plant and not a henhouse. The Minister had asked the groups for the documents requested. We have received a number of documents, and I fully acknowledge that. But in this case, it is a complementary document, the existence of which cannot be denied, and which requires analysis and which we can ask questions and get answers from the people concerned. I ask, Mr. Chairman, for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a number of things are being thrown and swept up here, and I fear that this will also happen consciously. I hear Mr Calvo say here that the SALTO report has been being asked for a long time, and it appears that there is now. Ladies and gentlemen, I must disappoint you, but this is not the report on the SALTO mission. Read the penultimate paragraph of that document. Make the effort to read all the way to the end. Mr Calvo, it says that this is indeed an expert mission, in preparation for the SALTO mission in 2017. It has always been announced that that mission would take place in 2017. This is the public summary of an expert mission, requested by the FANC, to review certain own findings internationally. This seems to me to be a healthy attitude. This is about the way in which, even in the document, the organisation must be adapted to the LTO, the extended lifespan. These issues have also been taken into account in the action plan drawn up by the FANC. It is indeed important that steps are taken forward. I hear Mrs Temmerman say that these plants are dangerous. Mr Van der Maelen, you have the document. Could you read out that passage saying that these power stations are dangerous? That's not what it says!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u219	It says: the actual organizational structure does not meet the needs to protect against an ageing production device.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u220	That's exactly what I'm saying from the beginning. These are staff issues that indeed need to be adapted because the LTO project was shut down in 2012 and then restarted. These issues are included in the FANC's action plan. Since February, and even before that, people have been working effectively to set this in motion. There is no mention of this, and that has just been said: 'These plants are dangerous.' That's not in there. It says that adjustments must be made. As in any report, including that of the FANC, it is said which adjustments are needed. The hearings we have had on security culture, on a number of issues in Tihange, are equally related to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u221	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u222	These are comments on how we should deal with this staff issue, with that organisation and so on. That is being followed up and that must also be followed up. There's no report here that says that LTO can't and shouldn't shut down those power stations. It's not here. Of course, that's not how it works. It is therefore absolutely important that this public document is indeed available. That's everywhere, no problem. That's what's on the website. We shouldn't be getting carried away with that. The FANC already has that from at least in February. Mr Calvo, this is not the SALTO report, and you know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u223	Mr Wollants, if it is all so public and if there is no problem, why hasn't it been released before and why haven't we discussed it in committee? Madam Secretary just said: oh yes, it's a report. You're explaining quite a bit that it's not and it's not. But we have not heard that from the Minister. The minister actually says she knows it, that she knows it, and that she ignores it. That's what she just said. Parliament cannot accept that, can it? I still want to believe you, a little bit, but let us examine it then, give us the opportunity to examine it and let us not decide today in a hurry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u224	Thank you, Mr. President. Richard Miller is trying to take an interest in the case, but it's a little complicated, because we've been discussing it for a year and a half. [[Brouhahaha]] We have been discussing this issue for over a year and a half. This government and this majority did not respect the rules of departure. It is true that there was no obligation for the SALTO investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u225	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u226	Madam Minister, after that it will be less fun for you! Also, try not to shine too much here and keep a consensual tone. The previous government had complied with the rules. And when it comes to nuclear power, Mr Wollants, the minister, when it comes to security, it is better to have independent experts who come to examine, investigate and tell us how to extend old power plants, which are being called into question by everyone and by all neighbouring countries, I remind you. It is irresponsible to now object to the opposition to issue a report, which we have been asking for for a year and a half – at least the minister could have said she had it – to minimize a report, not to accept independent experts and to make progress towards and against everything. You are legally irresponsible, towards the Council of State, at European level, about state aid, and irresponsible in terms of security. Do you realize what the government and this majority are going to do? I find this really unacceptable. But keep running the state like that! You're right, you're not listening to anyone and you're the best! We care about the safety of the population; you don't care! That's tonight's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u227	Mr President, what happened here in plenary – and I am talking about the minister's intervention, not that of Mr Wollants – is a demonstration that the minister is not familiar with the issue. Minister, you accused me of getting out of the items that are confidential. You said there was a need for accreditation, an authorization. Madam Minister, that's not true. That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u228	Mr. Nollet, I have to disappoint you once again. You're throwing an anathema by saying, "That's not true, Madam Minister." But I asked about it because I told you that as soon as I could pass it on to you, I would. However, I have been told exactly what I am saying, that these documents are restricted for 90 days from March 30, 2016. In the meantime, they have been communicated to the AFCN since it is the AFCN which is concerned and it is the competence – I have repeated it dozens of times in committee, so you know it well – of Mr Jan Jambon. It is in fact in the subcommittee on nuclear safety that these dossiers are systematically dealt with. This report is also in the hands of the contributors to the report and the competent staff of the International Atomic Energy Agency. These are the three addressees who, for the time being, have this report. You are quoting the summary of this file. You don't have the report. If you have it, you shouldn't have it, but this is your business, it's not mine. As far as the content of this report is concerned, we are talking about SALTO. Ms. Lalieux had the intellectual honesty to recall that this mission and SALTO examination is not a mandatory examination. We already discussed it in May-June 2015 and we learned that it would not take place before the revival of Doel 1 and Doel 2. We knew it would happen after, and that's exactly what's going on. I would remind you that Doel 1 and Doel 2 were relaunched under completely correct and perfect conditions of legality in December 2015 because the priority work required by AFCN was completed before the relaunch. They were taken up, detailed as such in the royal decree signed by Jan Jambon in September 2015. AFCN verified before December, prior to the re-launch, that this work had been carried out. Doel 1 and Doel 2 have been operating beyond forty years since December 2015 on perfectly correct and perfect legal bases. This SALTO mission, which is not mandatory, is an additional examination, because Belgium has decided to do so. For Tihange 1, it was completed in 2015. The document that concerns him can be found on the AFCN website. The same will apply after the 90-day restriction period from 30 March 2016, with respect to this. Of course, the operator will discuss with AFCN how to implement the elements contained in this document, which is based on an examination that is not mandatory and does not legally prevent Doel 1 and Doel 2 from turning, as has been the case since December 2015. I am obliged to explain all this to you again because you are forcing me to do so when this has been explained tens, tens and tens of times in committee for more than a year! I therefore repeat what has already been said, what everyone has already said, so that you are sure that I can tell the difference between the majority and me, between safety problems, which must be dealt with in the subcommittee on nuclear safety, and the problems of electricity which must be dealt with in the Committee on the Economy! The financial problems are the result of the electrical extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Ms. Len Dierick pointed out very well that not all aspects of safety were relevant to the consideration of today's text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u229	Mr President, I have understood caution in applause from part of the majority. I understand them and I invite them not to take what the minister has just explained for money. Minister, I have read the ten remarks, translated by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). You said, "It's a confidential document. You have no right to quote it." Madam Minister, you have said that this document will be made public in no time. Minister, you have a computer in front of you. Go to the IAEA website, you'll save time. Madam Minister, instead of saying anything, go to the site! Demonstrate! You have your iPad. Go to the IAEA website. Type "International Atomic Energy Agency". If you go to the site, you will find explicitly the elements that I have quoted here in the gallery. So come and tell us this is confidential! Come and tell us, Mr. Miller, that we can't use it and that we're making a deontological mistake or a serious mistake! Come and tell us here that these elements should be hidden from the public, when they are fundamental elements related to the safety of nuclear power plants. Madam Minister, next time, I think you should be better informed before you come to Parliament. This is the demonstration that you do not know the fundamentals of your file. This document is on the site! This document is public! This document, you made a commitment to transmit it. The President who is with us is here. At each committee meeting, you were asked to pass it on to us and you said, "We don't have it." We don't have it. Why? Because at that time, we were in the period of the non-anticipating days, of course. Oh, yes! Oh, yes, they were wrong. You now have it in front of you on the site. And so, on the substance of the remarks that are made, you have no answer at this stage. Mr President, I think that, for the sake of the serenity of the debates on such an essential issue, it is good to now distribute this document, so that everyone can have it. Meanwhile, the minister will realize what nonsense she was able to say to Parliament. We will judge in the Conference of Presidents how best to move forward in the future, given the importance of the remarks, which colleagues will be able to read as soon as the document has been circulated to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u230	I have not been part of the committee and this debate, but I am confronted here with your text, Mr Nollet, which you hope, as happened to Mrs Galant, to develop a kind of bomb to make Mrs Marghem suspicious. However, I can still read, even in English. Leen Dierick just gave it to me, the document says the following: "Executive summary." The team finds good progress in preparation for the long term operation of the plant. The team has found the plant staff professional, open and very receptive to suggestions for improvement. Walk-downs showed that the plant is in a good condition. It's in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u231	Read it to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u232	The plant is in a good condition, is there a great danger? What I blame you, Mrs Temmerman and the Greens, is this. Public opinion is following this debate and you give the impression, Mr Nollet, Mr Gilkinet and others, that there is a danger of a nuclear disaster, that a nuclear disaster can happen. Mrs. Temmerman, you spoke of accidents. Mr Van der Maelen, sp.a. has been in power for 25 years. You helped determine Belgium's nuclear policy. You said in 2003 that they would close and you did not close them. And then you come here, 25 years later, pointing out the danger of nuclear power, which you have developed with you. I was still here when Willy Claes was Minister of Economic Affairs and Energy and the great promoter of nuclear energy. You may not have been here yet. If I follow this discussion, I'm gonna have a good time coming to the Nuclear Safety Committee. You're quoting the ten points. What's it about? I believe that Bert Wollants has made that quite clear here. I'd like to read them, too. I would like to discuss with you the ten points on which you are asking for a session of reflection. We do not need a separate session or a Conference of Presidents. Those ten points are right here. Het eerste punt: “the current organizational structure does not reflect the needs of ageing management over the period of the long term questions.“ That they could be organizational problems, that could be. That's their appreciation. The second point is that there is to be a continuous improvement of the performance management process. I mean, it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... [[Rumor]] Mr Nollet, would you say that if we extend the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2, there is a very serious danger that nuclear power stations will explode and that there may be some kind of nuclear disaster in Belgium? Do you dare say that here? That's the point. I want to expose that demagogy. On the basis of this document, as far as I can see, there is no nuclear insecurity in any way. I can understand the need for better management. However, I do not accept your demagogy. I am not a member of the committee, but public opinion is being totally misled here. I ask that the majority continue with Objectives 1 and 2. I do not read what you say in this document. What you say is dangerous to public opinion, Mr Nollet. You can laugh with that... [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u233	Where does the document say that there is a danger to safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u234	Mrs. Onkelinx, your party has been in power for 25 years. You voted all the concordats Total demagogy of the socialists and the Greens, and I do not accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u235	Listen to each other. Mr Calvo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u236	I understand that Mr Van Rompuy is taking advantage of the absence of his group leader to have the reins celebrated. I greatly appreciate Mr Van Rompuy's parliamentary spirit, and I appreciate his eagerness for the parliamentary debate. I would just like to invite him to use them for the right subject areas, but I do not think he can do that at this point. I would like to stick to the facts and not even interpret this document. I don't care what Willy Claes said in 1975.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u237	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u238	Mr Miller, I will say two things that weigh heavily enough not to mention new elements or fantasies. What Willy Claes said in 1975, I don't care. What interests me is what this Minister told this Parliament at the committee meeting: if I have anything on the SALTO mission, I will make it available to you. The Minister didn't give us that when she had that report for months. Willy Claes didn't say that, the current minister said that, and that's a problem. Secondly, neither Mr Nollet nor Mr Temmerman nor myself have said that Objective 1 and Objective 2 are about to explode. No one said that. We have been informed of this report today, which is an important one, Mr Van Rompuy. There are ten recommendations, Mr President, and you have read them with me, which are fundamental enough to suspend this parliamentary debate. You can do that spontaneously as President or we can ask it as opposition under Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The motion is ready here. What is in this document is important enough not to continue to extend the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. That seems to me to be a very logical question from this Parliament at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u239	First of all, we have always distinguished between the powers of Mrs Marghem in the field of energy and those of nuclear safety. We have always said in that debate that these plants can only remain in operation for longer, provided that they are safe and that the FANC must give the green light to do so. As long as the FANC says that this can be done safely, that is the assessment we have to follow. The FANC is able to carry out inspections and checks, both in the case of the extension of a power station and in the case of its 10-year review and in between. Then it doesn't matter whether the power plant's life is extended or not, because from the moment it's unsafe, it closes. That will always be the case, was it now in 1976 just after the opening reception, or today at the time the life span is extended. There are ten points to be taken into account here, as if it were a circus! There are indeed ten points of interest. We have had talks here about Tihange 1, and you were also there, Mr Calvo, Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Lalieux. Of course there is such a report on Tihange 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u240	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u241	Mr. Nollet, stay calm. Let me explain how it went. You weren't there at the time, so I can't blame you for not hearing it. I'll explain everything. There was indeed a pre-SALTO mission in 2012 for Tihange 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u242	With eight recommendations. Acht.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u243	Thirteen. I have them here, but I won't read them all. You can read them here on my screen. So there are 13 recommendations where there are indeed problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u244	Eight problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u245	There are effective 13. I'll be right next to you, and we can go over that. Has there been a new mission before the previous government decided with the socialists to extend the life span of Tihange 1? No. There hasn't been one, because the SALTO mission dates back to 2015. In November 2013, we approved the extension in this Chamber. My question to Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Lalieux is therefore what happened to those 13 recommendations. Why didn't you postpone the vote on that? It's easy to throw all these things in a pile and quote a number of recommendations to shut things down. That is, of course, the question that has been alive and coming back for a year and a half, but let us also remain a little serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u246	Mr Nollet, very good try, I would say. You are suddenly waving a document, you want to suspend the debate and you want a translation of that document. Apparently, you have some sort of secret document that you want to put a bomb under the present bill. In fact, Mr Nollet, the suspension of this debate is neither necessary nor the translation of that document. After all, the summary is on the website of the FANC since 9 February 2016. So the whole show you're putting on here is for nothing. Everything in that document has been available on the FANC website since February. There is no new element.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u247	(...) it's not over...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u248	Don't worry, Mr. Miller, we're not trained!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u249	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u250	We know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Miller is a great energy expert who participates in all our debates and has followed the Tihange 1 dossier. Therefore, I am very attentive to what he says. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u251	[[...]] The President : That's no use! That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u252	Mr. Chairman, it is true that Mr. Miller was there for Mrs. Galant when things went wrong. He's here for Mrs. Marghem when things go wrong. We're used to it. But it doesn't matter. I wanted to answer Mr. Wollants, because there's nothing on the bottom that comes out of Mr. Miller's mouth. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u253	Mr Miller, you can always ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u254	Mr Wollants, the first thing you said was that the Committee on Economy, in the context of the two bills on Doel 1 and Doel 2, had always made the separation between nuclear safety and security of supply. That's what you said. Should I remind you of the crisis situations we have experienced in the Committee on the Economy? When reports on security came to us and the debate on SALTO, which came alongside Mrs Marghem, took place? Call him back, sir! Mr. Jambon came to explain himself. I still agree that there are two ministers in a joint meeting. But how do you explain that there is so much separation between security of supply and nuclear safety issues? This never makes one since the result is the same: the old power plants are extended. So don't say that Mr Jambon never came to talk about nuclear safety in committee. He did so, particularly during the discussions on SALTO and AFCN. That's the same request we're making tonight. That is why we have tabled a motion. Secondly, with Tihange 1, I know we like to rewrite history. And I also know that you do not like to be reminded that the previous government has worked with the MR, the CD&V and the Open Vld – with all of you – and has done so in accordance with European and international tradition. We, like this government, had asked for a SALTO investigation, which AFCN relayed the 13 remarks. And the changes were made. All this happened before the vote. Mr Wollants, I'm just asking for a little honesty. You have chosen another procedure, which does not respect European and international tradition, but assumes it! The problem with you is that you never take your stand. Recognize that you wanted to move forward because an agreement had been reached with Electrabel and you extended a power plant without a SALTO procedure, whose report you don't even want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u255	Mr Wollants has the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u256	Mr President, let me repeat the facts. I shall read from the reports so that Mrs Lalieux is absolutely certain. When did we approve the extension of Tihange 1? I think that was in November 2013. When is the scope set for the SALTO mission in Tihange 1? That was in August 2014. When did this mission take place? That was in January 2015. Don't tell us you didn't approve the extension until after the SALTO mission. That's not right. I have the documents here with me. If you like, I can make them copy, too, but we might kill a little too many trees if we continue at this rate. I'll send them to you. Perhaps then you will finally realise that what you have just said is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a conclusion. I couldn't find the document Mr. Nollet distributed. Some sources tell me that it is a restricted document; others say it is available on the website. I found the summary on the AFCN website. I found it, but it's not the same thing. I would therefore like everyone to be aware of the document and suggest that we suspend the sitting for half an hour. We shall resume the sitting at 9 p.m. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u258	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u259	The hearing has been reopened. Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime during the suspension, we have circulated the document concerned. The document has been distributed. I suggest we just continue the hearing. Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u260	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for having this document distributed. This is an extremely important element. I was able to give the services the references to the document. They demonstrate, contrary to what the minister said, that this document was not so confidential that it could not be cited or used. I only read it and translate it. It is useful to recall some elements around this document. After that, everyone will judge. In any extension of nuclear power plants, at least in countries that claim to be developed, the International Atomic Energy Agency is invited to do a double analysis. As part of a SALTO analysis, there is a pre-examination called pre-SALTO, and SALTO. For Tihange 1, as my colleague Wollants then pointed out, the pre-SALTO was carried out before the decision to extend the nuclear power plants was taken, therefore, with knowledge of the recommendations. We have a little difference on the name, but I'm on principle. Pre-SALTO, for Tihange 1, contained a series of recommendations. When Parliament decided – I was not there, but I inquired – to extend Tihange 1 (and I am looking at Mr Wollants), it was aware of the recommendations and the assessment of the pre-SALTO. This is also on the International Atomic Energy Agency's site: SALTO must be carried out normally before entering the new period, into the new 10-year LTO. I don't have the date in mind anymore. This is why SALTO was carried out before 2015 or mid-2015. I'm coming to Doel 1 and Doel 2. What we have asked in committee is exactly the same procedure, namely, a pre-SALTO before the political decision is taken and so that this decision is taken with full knowledge of any problems, and then a SALTO before entering the extension period. On these two elements, the majority refused to follow us. The minister said that it was not important, that it was possible to decide to extend without knowing what the IAEA's possible remarks were. That is what has been argued in committee. And we criticized him. At each stage, we asked for the results of the pre-SALTO. What is quite right is that in February – it is referred to in the work of the Commission – the Belgian Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) published a kind of state of affairs, in which it says broadly that everything is well, that it has received the pre-SALTO mission, that it has discussed with the experts, that there are some remarks but that the green light is to continue. That is why we have again asked the committee to have access to the full documents of the pre-SALTO. It's not because AFCN says everything's okay that everything's actually going well. We have become accustomed to having to carry out cross-checks with this Agency. That is one of the fundamental reasons why we have insisted so much on this report of the IAEA, to have an external look. Today, we read what the IAEA is writing and the ten points it cites. This analysis doesn't say that the power plant is going to explode tomorrow or the day after, Mr. Van Rompuy, I'll give it to you. I think you're a little more comfortable with the numbers than with the letters. On the other hand, what the IAEA says is that ten points are problematic, even if the plant operates without risk of explosion, to resume your question. Now that you have these ten points in front of you – and I thank the president for "bypassing" the minister's reading of them, namely that it was impossible to distribute the document – let us look at them. "The organizational structure does not reflect the needs of ageing management over the next ten years." This should call you and make the alarm sound in the majority. It is written that continuous improvement in the aging management process is not established. You want to give the green light for an extension without the process being established. In other words, in relation to nuclear risk, Mr. Van Rompuy, you are working blind. This is said by the fact that the aging management process is not established. Perhaps this can be done with regard to the budget, and I understand that in your logic of reasoning we can potentially get into debt and we can be out of a budget and the accounts establish what is happening. But in the area of nuclear safety and security, such a gap cannot be allowed. Not because there's going to be an accident tomorrow, but because we can't accept that in a developed country, there's an accident. That's the difference I would have wanted to make before the suspension, but I'm doing it now on the content. Let's go further with one of the elements that we worked a lot in committee – you weren't there, it's not a reproach and I'll take a little of your time to explain – that is, the seismic risk aspect for Doel. You probably know that Doel's power plants date back to a time that people under the age of 20 can't know. In any case, they didn't know him. But they were able to document each other. When the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants were built, there were no standards of seismic protection. Just because at the time, we weren't thinking about that dimension. Standards were introduced between the construction of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the construction of Doel 3 and Doel 4. For Doel 3 and Doel 4, Mr Van Rompuy, I can reassure you: standards have been met. But for Doel 1 and Doel 2, when the power plants are established, we don't care about that. Since then, in September 2014, the Coordination of European Nuclear Energy Regulators has issued standards for existing power plants. Usually, it enacts these for future power plants, the ones we want to build. However, considering that, following the Fukushima accident, seismic standards should also be established for existing power plants, it issued a technical standard. I'll just quote it from you, I can explain it to you, but I suggest that we spare ourselves this time. All existing nuclear power plants must be able to cope with an earthquake of 0.1 g – this is ground acceleration. Now, what do we see? No problem for Doel 3 and Doel 4 power plants. But the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants cannot withstand an earthquake greater than 0.058 g without significant damage. We're back in numbers, Mr. Van Rompuy. You know what that means. 0.058 g is less than 0.1 g. So we have a potential problem, of course. We're not saying that tomorrow, a power plant is going to explode. We have a potential problem with this 0.1 g standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u261	Mr President, on the one hand, I would like to ask you how long Mr Nollet has been talking. I believe that speaking time is limited to 20 minutes and that it has largely expired. On the other hand, we are talking about an amount to be paid. We're not talking about seismic effects. These are the responsibility of another committee, but certainly not of this work in plenary. This debate must be conducted in the nuclear safety sub-committee, and not this evening in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u262	Mr Friart, I do not agree with you when you say that nuclear safety has nothing to do with this draft. I agree with you when you say that the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety is the best place to conduct the debate. After half an hour's break, Mr Nollet correctly identified the problem and the document was situated in time. It is not a secret document with a restrictive distribution, as the Minister has just tried to harden. Madam Minister, you said that we can replay the tape that you could not give it, because it was not allowed. You said that in Parliament less than an hour ago. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wollants, we all agree that the Minister was not right. It's not a secret document. It is the first time, however, that the Chamber is informed of the full summary. The FANC has referred to it, but has not made it available to us. That is why we have put our heads together and Mr Temmerman, Mr Lalieux, Mr Nollet and myself have put together an order motion. Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure gives us that opportunity. We do not have the ambition of making it a very long procedural debate, Mr President. Mrs Marghem, the only thing we as opposition have been trying to do for a year and a half has been trying to persuade you to take a normal, serious approach to the dossier. That's all we're really expecting from you. We ask you to share the information you have with us and with Parliament. You haven't done that again. We believe that the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee should consider the report. That can happen for us next Tuesday and then we can resume the debate next Thursday. We ask that we work in a proper way. That is the question of Mr Lalieux, Mr Temmerman and our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u263	Please continue, Mr Nollet. I'll come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u264	Mr President, I therefore repeat the reasoning for Mr. Van Rompuy. As it appeared in the committee that Doel 1 and Doel 2 are only able to withstand an earthquake of 0.058 g, whereas the new standard enacted is 0.1 g, we intellectually consider that there was a risk and that the opinion of the International Atomic Energy Agency should be sought. What does the report say today? [[Tumult on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u265	Mr Van Rompuy, according to one of the ten comments made by the International Atomic Energy Agency, which we have been able to see today, practices as envisaged in the LTO can compromise operability during and after an earthquake. So this is, in a way, echoing the dimension on earthquakes. This does not mean that today we must reach 0.1 g, but that the International Agency believes that there may be an issue of earthquake dimensions. However, by going through what the Belgian Agency published on its website in February, it can be seen that it never refers to this dimension on earthquakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u266	February 9th!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u267	That is why I consider the reports of our Belgian Agency to be insufficient. There is therefore a problem of trust in the Belgian Federal Nuclear Control Agency, as it has had access to the International Atomic Energy Agency's oral report and has clearly not synthesized it properly. That is why, from the beginning, I have worked with others, colleagues, to obtain from the chairman of the committee, who has done his best to have access to this full report. On several occasions, the president turned to the minister to ask for this report. The minister told us, "He's not here." One day, on the last commission, she said, "He's in the diplomatic suitcase." I knew he'd be here soon. That is why I regularly followed the publications but not on the Belgian agency. It was known that she had made a synthesis, but it was also known that unfortunately she had a habit of not pointing at the elements that bother her, in this case the earthquake. That is one of the points of course. So, Mr Van Rompuy, I, along with many of the opposition colleagues, have constantly called for this report to be made public. I did not appreciate that the minister blamed me for disclosing the ten items, which were confidential. That is why I gave the president the access codes to visit the international agency's website and find that, on the one hand, this report was more complete than that of the Belgian agency because it is explicit about the ten problems and, on the other hand, it was public, contrary to what the minister said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u268	I will try, in close cooperation with Mr Nollet, to give the Chamber an idea of what we are talking about. Mr Nollet has indeed quoted the document, the first four words and the last four words. I'll tell you what's in between. First of all, I want to talk about that seismic risk. There was indeed no, what is called, design build earthquake in the construction of Objective 1 and 2. Afterwards, a figure of 0.058 g has been glued up. That's right. But that does not mean that no further steps have been taken in the meantime. In the meantime, we know that far-reaching steps have been taken and that 0.1 g can be met, depending on the way in which WENRA interprets this. When it comes to: moving to a safe stop, the FANC has clearly indicated in our Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee that this is not the problem. It's about how WENRA interprets it, when multiple phenomena occur simultaneously, and so on. Let us not confuse the two. In addition, Mr Nollet makes the jump from the seismic risk he spoke about very easily to what is stated here in the report. He says: it is a problem, after all, when one starts to operate the plant, that the seismic risk comes up again here. Colleagues, do you know what this is about? It is a matter of recommending that certain materials, certain furniture, tables, chairs, be stored today in such a way that they may stand in the way of electrical installations. I mean, I'm sure we can fix that. I believe it is possible to store these materials in another place. That is the seismic risk that Mr Nollet sees major problems. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the stockpiling of furniture, I believe that we can find a Chamber-wide agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u269	I have received an order motion from Mr Calvo, Mr Nollet, Mrs Temmerman, Mr Gilkinet, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Cheron, Mrs Lalieux and Mr Delizée. The order motion has been signed by enough people. In the light of the IAEA's report, they are calling for a halt to the discussion on Objective 1 and Objective 2. I declare the order motion admissible. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle this is a vote with sitting and standing, but to be sure, I propose that we vote electronically. Those who support Mr Calvo's sense of order, as she has just been read out, will vote in favour, the others will vote against. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[42]] Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 111 Total Consequently, the order motion is rejected. Accordingly, the point of order is dismissed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u270	Mr President, I just noticed, with my colleagues, that the majority was not in number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u271	In this case, it doesn't matter, Mr. Nollet. No, that doesn't count here. The vote took place. We're going on!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u272	Mr President, I think that this debate is sufficient to show that the dossier, as presented to Parliament, is not complete, is not mature, is not, in my view, in a position to be voted on today. Despite the fact that the majority were not in number – they were not 76 – I see that you want to continue. I think, Mr President, that is up to what we have been through for about a year in committee. For the past year in committee, the only thing that the majority has been able to put forward is its number. It is mathematics, arithmetic that makes it possible to press a button at a time and consider that there is a majority and an opposition. But, and this allows me to address the other elements of my speech, this issue which has been in Parliament for more than a year now will not end this evening with the possible vote at the end of the day. Indeed, as you know, many appeals have already been filed. This case is aberrant from a legal point of view, it is aberrant from an economic point of view and it is aberrant from an environmental point of view, especially since alternatives exist. I will try to pick up on point by point our most important criticisms of these three elements. From an economic point of view, this is insane. Everything is built on the basis of a double decoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u273	Mr President, of course, the debate is important, of course, and everyone is given the opportunity to speak, but have you given the various political groups time to speak? The democratic debate has to be held, but on the other hand, the opposition systematically returns with the same arguments. Perhaps at some point we can shorten the debate because we always repeat the same thing! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u274	There is a half-hour speaking time excluding all interruptions. Mr Nollet can therefore continue and conclude!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u275	In reply to Mr Thiéry, to my knowledge, there was no agreement in the Conference of Presidents on speaking time. Still, I would like to touch on three more points. The first concerns the economic dimension of this project. In this regard, he is insane. Everything is built on a double decoy. First, talking about a risk of short-term shortages is wrong. Then, the minister repeated on many occasions that extending nuclear power would speed up the energy transition. It is at least as strong as saying earlier that the report was confidential. All actors support the opposite. Madam Minister, I assume that you have had the opportunity to read out the statements of Mr Brichau, the boss of Essent in Belgium, for whom the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 closes the door to a flexible and short-term energy transition. From an economic point of view, the short-term shortage, and other colleagues have developed this remark, is a false argument. On the other hand, it is true that by extending the nuclear power plant by ten years, by extending the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants, you will delay the energy transition. It's not complicated: you're moving away from 10 years. Besides, your partner in this operation...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, true that the session will be extended when we are very noisy. So let Mr Nollet speak and listen with attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u277	Mr President, I now wanted to address, again in this economic aspect, the fact that the government's partner in this extension operation, ENGIE, allows itself, in its accounts, to take into account an extension not of ten years, but of twenty years. The Minister of Finance is here. This means that the signal ENGIE gives to the market is as follows: Mrs Marghem says anything when she says that the nuclear will stop in 2025. We, ENGIE, know that we can value in our accounts an extension of nuclear power plants not by ten years, but by twenty years. Indeed, as Mr. Laaouej tells me, it is not Mr. Labille who tells me. This can be found in ENGIE's 2015 consolidated accounts. Mr. Minister of Finance, since you're here, you might as well take advantage of your presence. Do you find it normal and acceptable that a company that has just signed, at 16 rue de la Loi, in the bunker, and to present to the press, an extension of ten years - "and after it's time in 2025" as the minister tells us - prolongs in its accounts the life of the plants by twenty years? Mr. Minister of Finance, do you find this economically acceptable? It's untenable! What is interesting is the arguments used by ENGIE. I won't be long, but I know you're paying attention to the economic side. They must justify themselves and use arguments to get out of the law. The law says that nuclear power is being extended until 2025. But ENGIE says: "No, we decide to value ten more years, to have two billion euros more,... " The arguments used by ENGIE are public, Minister. They are not confidential, I prefer to tell you too. " ... in view of the fact that Doel 1 and 2 are extended by ten years, and given this extension of the important share of nuclear production in the energy mix, and the absence, in the head of government, of an industrial plan sufficiently detailed and attractive to encourage energy actors to invest in alternative thermal capacities, in alternatives". ENGIE therefore justifies the extension to 20 years in its accounts by extending Doel 1 and 2 and by the absence of alternatives developed by the government. That is the problem. You may say that in 2025 it was over for nuclear power in Belgium. Those who make the accounts, those who decide in your place, those who write the laws for you, namely ENGIE and Electrabel, already value for twenty years the extension of nuclear power plants, apart from your agreement and with your complicity! Indeed, at no time in the framework of this agreement have you asked ENGIE to put its accounts in line with what you have just signed. This is proof for us, or, I would say, further proof of the fact that you are actually feet and fists linked to what they have decided. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u278	Mrs Fonck, Mr Laaouej, we're talking about numbers, we're talking about accounts. It makes sense to be interested. When ENGIE values the extension of nuclear power plants for 20 years, when the minister tells us that it is for 10 years, we know what that means. The accounts are flattered by 2 billion euros! Mr Laaouej, like others here, knows what that means. I hope, Mr Van Rompuy, that you have been able to follow this important reasoning. If that is not the case, I could take it back later at the turn of the amendments. On the legal side, I will be briefer because most colleagues have already developed these various elements in a very relevant way. You have a text which, from a legal point of view, is very fragile. You've privatized the drafting of the law. Electrabel dictated the law; Electrabel dictated his law. This can be found in the appendices you signed. It's never been seen before. What we are voting today or what we will vote earlier is what was written by Electrabel. You weren't a minister of energy, you were a notary of energy! It was Electrabel who drafted the text and you simply passed it on to the parliamentarians. Your legal counsel has asked you to amend the text to take into account a small comment from the Council of State. I think it was one of your amendments, Mr de Lamotte. Even for a remark of lesser importance, even when your own legal counsel tells you to modify the text because it is fragile, you do not do so, because it is Electrabel who wrote the text and you cannot, because you are bound by this convention, change the least comma and the least digit of this convention. From a legal point of view - and now I also understand better that you have been called upon to rescue, Mr Van Overtveldt - state aid is a problem. You are probably aware that the Council of State has pointed out to Minister Marghem that there is a potential risk of state aid and that, therefore, we must guard against it until the European Commission gives its green light. Would I dare say that you have shown the way? Mr Van Overtveldt, you're being briefed, but it's not always solid. I dare say that you have shown the way with your diamond tax, including MM. Laaouej and Gilkinet were fervent actors in the debate in committee? Indeed, when the Council of State pointed out that there was a risk of State aid, you introduced an amendment stipulating that the green light was only given when the European Commission gave its own. MM. Gilkinet and Laaouej will continue to be against the principle, but will respect the fact that you, at least, have taken into account the advice of the Council of State. You said that a competent minister, faced with a risk of state aid, is waiting for the European Commission to give its green light. Like me, you do not understand why, when the Council of State's remark is the same, Minister Marghem did not follow your wise example, by introducing this element of caution into the bill. I would like, because you may not be here when we vote on the text, to explain to me, Mr Minister, why, in the face of the same opinion of the Council of State, the same government adopts two different attitudes: a cautious attitude with your text on the diamond tax and an unwise attitude to Doel 1 and Doel 2, not waiting for the European Commission to give its green light. I do not understand that the same government does not follow the same reasoning in relation to the same opinion of the same Council of State. We will wait for Minister Van Overtveld's response, because it seems to me very important. I thank you for coming to this meeting to participate in this work because this is an item that has been very busy with us in committee. And your presence today may allow us to finally understand why the government had a different attitude to the same opinion of the Council of State. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u279	Don't exaggerate, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u280	As far as the environmental aspect is concerned, the risk of an earthquake has already been developed and I will no longer deal with it, because Mr. Van Rompuy has been usefully enlightened. With regard to the list of work to be carried out, why is most of the work postponed to 2018-2019, while the extension of the plants begins in 2015? If you compare with Tihange 1, most of the work was done before entering the extension phase, before 2015. Here, for Doel 1 and Doel 2, my colleague Calvo has done the calculation: 60-70% are carried over to the end of the period for which we have received the completion table. This means that, for a few years, we will be floating with safety on important works. In 2012, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency had considered that the priority work had to be carried out – I say well done, not planned – before entering the 2015-2025 period, therefore before the new extension period. For Doel 1 and Doel 2, because the government decided, at some point, to speed up the procedures, the Agency indicated that it could accept – which it considered unacceptable in 2012, since, at the time, the work had to be carried out in advance – that the work should be carried out at a later stage. In our view, this is taking unacceptable risks and changing the course of action of the nuclear gendarmerie. This is not possible, especially since these plants are first generation plants. These are twin power plants that are configured as nuclear submarines. Indeed, at the time, they were also thought of for propulsion. So everything is very confined. The safety elements of the two reactors are intertwined with each other, which has not been the case since then for safety reasons. At Doel 3 and Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3, the mounts are different. But here we are faced with such specific and problematic aspects, which is why we should have done the work beforehand. I will not re-develop here the problem of the risk of a plane falling. I'll do it later when Minister Jambon joins us. What I mean is that it happens with the complicity of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. I will conclude by reading an editorial published on 11 March on the fact that nuclear doubt was more present than ever. This article written by Béatrice Delvaux appeared shortly before Fukushima's birthday. I quote: "It was five years ago in Japan. A tremor caused a tsunami and destroyed the Fukushima nuclear power plant. At the time, we followed the events with anxiety, certainly, but with reassurance. An earthquake of such magnitude could not happen in our home. And yet. In Belgium today, fear or, in any case, doubts about nuclear power are greater than they were at the time, because confidence in this energy and those who "run it" is greatly shaken. Firstly, because lack of transparency has become the rule in this sector." Mr Di Rupo, you were not present, but today, again, in plenary, we had an example of a lack of transparency. We'll tell you about it. "Everything is under control": this sentence has been widely heard in the last few months in the mouth of ministers, and more and more often in Parliament. The problem is that the facts (repetitive incidents, cracks, etc.)), successive reports – such as the latest one on the adequacy of the safety of our plants to seismic risk –, statements by experts or procedures initiated by neighbouring States that doubt, make us think the opposite. This nuclear industry, born with the certainty of safety, has stumbled several times, not just in delicacy communist states. Secondly, because the decisions taken by the policy on this sensitive matter seem to be less so on the basis of scientific and strategic convictions than in very, too close connection with the economic operators of a sector that knows how to exert pressure. Tertio, because the management of nuclear policy, which should be careful, premeditated and integrated into a global energy strategy, is done, as the song says, with "three steps forward, three steps backwards, three steps on the side, three steps on the other side". In Belgium, you go out, or you go into nuclear power, like you change your shirt. Just that in itself would be enough to feed anxiety. Hence the multiple questions. Who has the nuclear risk under control? Who ultimately assumes responsibility? Who will tell us how Belgium will emerge from nuclear power in 2025 and restore our faith in the establishment of a genuine energy transition? And basically, what counts most between the money and the security of the population? Between successive governments, conflicting ministers, profit-loving operators, Belgian nuclear power has become a soap more worrying than funny. So when, in this context, the authorities begin to distribute iodine pellets to a population that has nuclear not on the edge of an ocean, but at the bottom of its garden, hard to blame those who say that Fukushima, it may not be just for others." End of quote. In conclusion, I will allow myself to repeat the quotation of a statement made in a party office, yours, Madam Minister, in the mouth of the Prime Minister's father: "We must stop taking people as jerks." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u281	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that energy spent for almost 15 months to finally defend two bills, that of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and that of the royalty. I think it will really be regrettable that all this energy spent does not, in fact, translate into any ambition in terms of energy policy. Belgium has just lost 15 months to extend two nuclear reactors, which the European Commission has designated this week as a source of intermittent energy production. Nothing has been done to build the energy landscape of tomorrow. This week, ENTSO-E confirmed what we could all consider: we will even have too much production capacity some days in the summer. This is not really a surprise after the withdrawal of the call for tenders for new gas capacity, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the reopening of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. The lack of flexibility in our production fleet is indeed reinforced by the inconsistent policy put in place by this government. More specifically, with respect to the bill that matters to us today, the Doel 1 and Doel 2 fees, it is clearly inconclusive because, contrary to what you are saying, minister, no, this extension is not crucial in order to ensure the country's security of supply. Elia said so. No, contrary to the arguments used to compel the Council of State to rule in five days, this bill was not to be passed without delay. No, contrary to what you're writing, this project does not offer all the necessary legal certainty. If you still doubted, even the law firm paid by you felt that this text should be amended, which you did not do because you are feet and fists linked with ENGIE. And not because your ultimate argument used to try to bend the Council of State and the House is not on the road. Indeed, you dared to write, and I quote you, that "any delay in voting on the bill would deprive the country of an installed and available electricity generation capacity, thereby generating an increased risk of discharge or blackout for the next winter" – that is, the one that just happened. You wrote that when you requested the benefit of the emergency for the processing of this file in December 2015. You continue by saying: "...which would have disastrous effects on the economy and the well-being of citizens". Just this last sentence is a deception. But rest assured, ladies and gentlemen, because we are six months later and this text has not yet been voted on, but the Minister of Energy's forecasts have not been realized. If we still need arguments to prove the nonsense of this energy policy, we can easily say that it was the Minister of Energy herself who provided them to us by aligning these counter-truths. Continuing to trust this policy is nonsense. Colleagues, you certainly remember the lively debates we had in June 2015 on the need for an environmental impact assessment and cross-border consultation as part of the extension of Doel 1 and 2. Since then, a new document has been published following the UN Economic and Social Council's EIS Implementation Committee of April 2016. By letter of 2 March 2016, the Committee noted that Ukraine has indeed confirmed to the Committee that the new draft law on environmental impact assessment currently pending before the Parliament envisages the implementation of an environmental study procedure for the extension of the life of a nuclear power plant. As a result of this analysis, the Committee considered that the incorporation into the law of the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment in the event of an extension of the life of nuclear power plants was a positive element. Belgium will therefore be the worst student in the United Nations class. Even Ukraine will modify its legal basis in order to comply with international recommendations and comply with the conventions it has ratified. The future will tell us, Madam Minister, whether this lack of consultation will be the subject of a judicial decision against the Belgian State. With regard to the judicial authorities, it is important to point out that the law firm Janson Baugniet mandated by you to provide legal advice on the advice of the Council of State and on the amendments of the opposition proposes to replace the words "public authority" in this bill with the words "federal authority", so that the decisions of the federated entities do not fall under the compensation regime but also the decisions of the judicial authorities. On saying that the words "federal authority" exclude the judiciary, I would be careful and would recommend, either to add "executive and legislative". That is why I tabled an amendment in committee and then in this sitting. However, Madam Minister, I regret that you did not consider it necessary to amend the text to that effect, since, in her view, this double exclusion is now clear from the committee's work. Minister, on what basis do you feel that parliamentary work is now sufficiently enlightening the scope of the rule in this bill and in your own words, which are in fact contradictory and vary from committee to committee. Indeed, when you review the work of our committee, you will notice this contradiction. Good luck to those who will have to interpret! Indeed, to various members asking whether the Belgian courts and tribunals should also be heard by "public authority", you replied in the affirmative. I can quote you from project document 54/1511/004 on page 70. I invite you to read it again. Which version should it take precedence? All the more so since the version which excludes the judiciary from the federal authorities was the subject of an amendment which was rejected by the majority as a whole, whose parliamentarians abstained from expressing any oral position on this subject. It is obvious that the minister's small sentence is enough. We therefore conclude that it is enough above all not to modify the text signed by Gérard Mestrallet himself and that, despite this attempt to prove the contrary, you do not want to alter the meaning of this text. The deal with ENGIE would therefore include the judicial authorities among the federal authorities. Who could still be deceived by the "independence" you claim? I would like to return to another point raised in committee: the level of investment. According to the Council of State, the scope of the phrase should also be clarified: "to make the investments necessary for the ten-year extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 proposed. Since such investments are clearly part of the economic parameters whose disruption may give rise to compensation and the scale of the investments is directly related to the extent of the compensation, this matter cannot be delegated to the parties to the Convention. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the authority can continue to impose additional investments if this is necessary to ensure that the level of plant safety remains in line with relevant international standards." Previously, Madam Minister, you stated in committee: "The Agency made its terms and conditions known in September 2014. On this basis, Electrabel drew up an action plan in April 2015, which was validated by AFCN and formally adopted by royal decree of 27 September 2015". I continue to quote: "It is understood that the operator's nuclear safety obligations are not limited to a given amount. If, subsequently, the level of safety required to operate the extended reactors were to be further increased, for example in order to meet the new seismic safety standards, the operator would have no choice but to comply with them." However, it seems to me, Madam Minister, that the operator has the choice whether or not to comply with it based on economic feasibility. If it fails to comply, the AFCN will have to make a binding decision that could lead to Doel 1 and 2. In this case, we are not in the context of Article 8 of the Convention, which could typically apply in the event of a problem of profitability of these plants, but in that of another article. Therefore, no compensation is payable by the operator. Thus, Article 8 of the Convention, well thought out by ENGIE, refers to a judgment on the initiative of Electrabel. But if the operator waits for AFCN to force him to stop, there is no longer any problem of compensation either in the Head of Electrabel or in the Head of State. The length of the transitional period is important because if it runs until 2025, it solves the problem for the federal government and Electrabel. On the other hand, if it were shortened, for example until 2020, what would happen? This could simply undermine your government's energy policy. The Conseil d'Etat, however Mr Friart, who gave detailed opinions, pointed out in paragraph 32: "If the new standard is actually imposed and additional investments are needed to increase Doel 1 and Doel 2's resistance to earthquakes, these investment costs may have to be taken into account in determining the amount of the levy. If this standard applies to all nuclear power plants and is therefore independent of the rejuvenation of Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants, it could also be foreseen that these costs should not be regarded as investments to be made and therefore have the value of economic parameters within the meaning of Article 4/2. In the interest of legal certainty, it would be preferable in this case to supplement the article with a provision stating that the additional investments imposed by the authority to ensure the safety of all nuclear power plants and which are therefore not solely related to Doel 1 and Doel 2 cannot be considered unilateral acts within the meaning of this provision." Madam Minister, the contradictions in your text, the different interpretations, the opinions of the Council of State and I have never been able to answer my questions during the exchanges in committee! The more precise the question, the more vague the answer! Either you can answer me today, or I'll take it that you're not equipped to provide me with a reassuring answer on this. Another sensitive point that was raised concerns the notification of state aid, which has already been much discussed. On this notification to the European Commission and the postponement of the entry into force of this bill, your answers did not convince any of the people who questioned you in committee. You can verify that, the parliamentarians of the majority have refrained from expressing any position on this matter. The silence of the majority is deafening in this case. However, the opinion of the Council of State is completely clear and has been recalled. If the House, notwithstanding what has been observed above, intends to complete the legislative process already, then an amendment to that effect would be essential. Essential: weigh the weight of this word. That's what we said earlier, Mrs. Temmerman. This bill should therefore not be voted on by the House before the European Commission's decision on state aid. However, if the majority persists in continuing with this bancal text, for which even the Janson Baugniet cabinet that you have paid hard to find credible defence arguments, then the Council of State is intractable. This text must be amended; it is indisputable. I therefore appeal to the majority today. Do you really want to vote on this bill? Will you take responsibility for giving this legislation the force of law? Minister, if this legislation does not come into force before July 31, you can still enter into an agreement with ENGIE and Electrabel to amend this clause of the agreement. I ask you: is an agreement in preparation? Do you think that your bill setting out the nuclear contribution for 2016 and the years ahead, which is currently in the Council of State, can be voted on before July 31st? On many occasions, I, along with others, have drawn your attention to these points in committee. You do not seem to understand or want to understand the issues behind these words. I would like colleagues in the majority to be aware of this before exercising their power and voting in favour of this text. It is to be regretted that the committee reports, which were written in connection with the consideration of this bill, give the impression that the members of the majority were simply absent in this debate. Madam Minister, you were very alone. Four arguments. I won't go any further. We said enough, and I wanted to go to the essentials. But in conclusion, it seems important to me to take stock of the country's energy situation. It must be noted that the federal government has decided not to cancel the call for tenders for new gas capabilities a year ago and that, since then, nothing has been carried out except the extension of Doel 1 and 2. Therefore, minister, it is not enough to say that the 2003 Act provides for the release of nuclear power in 2025 so that the elements necessary for this exit are magically occurring. Your mandate will end no later than 2019, but your mission is to see beyond this political deadline. We are therefore waiting for you in committee, but it is above all the energy sector that is waiting for you. This government, which intends to support investment, entrepreneurship and economic development, clearly does not want to achieve this ambition in the energy sector or, Madam Minister, it is time to prove the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u282	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although it is not part of the strict content of the present draft law, a great deal has already been said today about the extension of the life of nuclear power stations and about security of supply. So I have no choice but to make a few points about this on behalf of our group and to make our position clear. There is no denying that despite all energy savings, the need for electricity continues to increase and that additional capacity is also needed in the medium term. Renewable energy sources cannot meet the deficit today. Therefore, nuclear power production in Flanders remains indispensable in the near future. The Flemish interest has always been consistent in this and we are pleased that the other parties have now reached that progressive understanding. We have never been able to agree to the closure of Objective 1 and Objective 2 as long as there is insufficient replacement capacity. A very important element in this is security of supply. This needs to be looked at in the medium and long term. Belgium is increasingly dependent on imports of electricity and our neighbouring countries will have less and less surplus capacity to export there in the coming years. It cannot be expected that we will have to fall back on all kinds of cut-off plans and other crisis measures in the foreseeable future, as was the case at the end of the previous one and at the beginning of the current one. The risk of a deficit should not be taken. Let us therefore move towards the necessary energy transition to renewable energy sources in the coming years, while ensuring the necessary stability in the supply of energy. These two things do not contradict each other, contrary to what I have just heard from Mrs Temmerman. She is no longer here. She feared that renewable energy would not be invested. However, if there is a reason why there would be no investment, then it is precisely because of the constant change of ideas and plans, the uncertainty and the lack of a long-term vision. Ladies and gentlemen, security is also a priority for us, but we are not doom-thinkers like Green. The reasons for the decisions taken at the time to shut down nuclear power stations after 40 years were taken much more on ideological grounds than on the basis of economic, technical, scientific, environmental or safety motives. With regard to security, we trust the FANC. This does not, of course, mean that more stringent security measures should not be applied, such as the WENRA Directives, which must in any case be transposed into law by the end of 2017. The new nuclear emergency plan should also be ready by the end of this month. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all agree that a nuclear power plant that is not safe should be shut down, no matter when. Frightening, as we have just heard from Mr Nollet, is absolutely not for us. Mr Nollet, you can make as much wind here in Parliament as you want - that is your right - but it is much more useful to do so alongside a windmill. I'll get to the bill myself. Madam Secretary, your timetable was a mess. The legislative framework within which the agreement between the federal state and the owners of the nuclear power stations Objective 1 and Objective 2 should have been discussed and concluded should have been established before you could have entered into negotiations. It goes against all your intentions, by the way. You yourself stated last summer that this draft law would be submitted immediately at the beginning of the parliamentary year and that you would not conclude an agreement with Electrabel until after parliamentary work. You even made a formal promise that the draft law would be submitted to Parliament by 15 November 2015. In practice, however, you have concluded the agreement for the submission of the draft law. I would like to accept an agreement with suspensive conditions, as you have now concluded with Electrabel, but that is not the right course of action. That is not acceptable to us either. As far as the Energy Transition Fund is concerned, we are also convinced that there are still many opportunities for growth in the area of renewable energy. With the Energy Transition Fund, which should encourage research and development for innovative projects in the field of energy, you meet the Flemish interest's demand for supporting and subsidising technology and it also coincides with our plea for greater efficiency. With the principle that Electrabel in exchange for the lifetime extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2, provides a financial input for that fund, we can fully agree. However, we do not follow the federal government parties, which seem to be relying on Electrabel to achieve the energy shift while at the same time securing energy supplies. Unlike our colleagues in the opposition, we do not believe that an important player in electricity supply, such as Electrabel, should not be involved in the energy transition. Surely it is likely that this can lead to valuable, innovative projects? Since the energy transition is a process in the long term, it could also include modular nuclear power plants of a new generation. It goes without saying that the conditions for eligibility for a concession from the Energy Transition Fund must be laid down. These locks should prevent Electrabel from becoming a cardigan pocket operation, or even a win situation without sufficient consideration. Madam Minister, I wonder why you did not propose to Electrabel to set a higher remuneration for that extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2, with a reduction per year when a binding agreement proposes projects that effectively contribute to energy transition. For example, the proposed EUR 4.3 billion investment by Electrabel could be invested in energy storage and energy efficiency over the next ten years, which is not the case now. In that case, if Electrabel does not comply with the agreement, the input into the Energy Transition Fund will be higher than the EUR 20 million and other players will be given more financial space. That solution is much better than what is before us today because it would make the government's choice of energy transition much clearer than it is now in your draft law. Now you confine yourself to that fixed annual fee, without any deeper commitment from Electrabel. Colleagues, the key question of this draft law is whether the proposed flat-rate compensation of EUR 20 million by Electrabel is a correct remuneration. I have some reservations about this. Electrabel will pay 20 million euros a year for 10 years. However, this fee is tax deductible so that Electrabel actually pays only EUR 14 million per year. Electrabel will invest EUR 700 million to achieve the lifetime extension, but there are no investments to better cope with the risk of earthquakes. Electrabel could invest EUR 4.3 billion in Belgium over the next ten years, but there is no contractual commitment to this. Nuclear interest rates will be reduced by several hundred million euros. In other words, the repartition fee will fall and a drastic reduction will be granted for the tax backlog of unoccupied sites. The tax on unused sites drops from 300 to 120 million euros. Madam Minister, if we all weigh that up, I can only conclude that Electrabel is getting an incredible financial gift. If we put that compensation and the proposed investment for the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 in addition to the reduced nuclear tax and the reduced tax on the unused sites, then it does not look like Electrabel will tear its pants on this agreement and certainly not when electricity prices on the wholesale market would rise again. Mrs Dierick has just rightly said that we cannot predict the future. That is true, but then you should have ensured that any future profits do not remain out of hand, as is the case today. Amazing is that meanwhile families pay more for their electricity. The families in this country receive an increasing electricity bill. In the period between the second half of 2014 and the second half of 2015, the electricity price for households in this country increased by 15,1 %. By comparison, the average increase in the European Union over the same period was 2.4 %. Then the Turtel tax, on average 100 euros per family per year in Flanders, is not even added. In short, a policy that distributes such financial gifts to Electrabel, while making the electricity bill more expensive for the families, is a policy that we do not support. That is why we will not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u283	Colleagues, Minister, I will give you the main criticisms we have about this project. The first point is quite simple, but it is worth recalling: nuclear energy is dangerous. We saw it again in 2011 during the Fukushima disaster. Located near Antwerp, its port, its chemical plants, Doel is by far the most dangerous nuclear power plant in Europe. It is irresponsible to keep old reactors such as Doel 1 and Doel 2, not to mention cracked reactor 3. If something goes wrong in Doel, 900,000 people will be exposed. And I am not talking about economic damage, which could go up to 1,400 billion euros in the event of an explosion. The way this government has forced the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2's lifetime is symptomatic: no study on the environmental impact, no listening to the population, no listening to environmental organisations. Everything was arranged in the felted salons of power and only one bell sound arrived in the ears of the minister, that of Electrabel. We sometimes wonder whether his firm is not a subsidiary of the ENGIE Group, and we have seen changes in this firm. The second point of criticism is that we do not need these reactors. According to Elia's studies, power supply can be guaranteed without Doel 1 and Doel 2. The only risk of electricity shortages is that the government is not making any progress on renewable energy investments. It is precisely the extension of nuclear power that hinders investment in new and sustainable technologies. Thirdly, according to renewable energy producers and environmental organisations, the extension of nuclear power plants is a form of masked, grossly masked state aid. The owners of nuclear power plants have the exclusive right to operate them beyond their original lifetime, at a particularly low price, which has not been shown to be in conformity with the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u284	In this connection, the project states that ENGIE Electrabel will be subject to a contribution of €20 million per year, tax deductible. Fourth point: the only reason why these nuclear power plants are maintained is the sustainable development of profits. The CREG estimated that for 2014, the profits of nuclear power are between EUR 421 million and EUR 506 million, and these profits increase in subsequent years. It can be said that nuclear power plants are mostly cash-fired plants. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it can be said that this government gives the keys to energy policy to a handful of multinationals, and in particular to a French woman. It is they who decide whether to invest or not and at what rate of profit. As households, small businesses pay more and more for their energy, the operator Electrabel receives gift after gift from this government. How is it possible that a private facility could pose such a high risk to our country? How can it have the right to impose enormous costs on society for the organization of contingency plans? Why would Electrabel have the right to impose another ten years of nuclear waste on future generations? Why is this long-standing, dubious distribution, profit for the private sector, cost and risk for the community? Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are too dependent on nuclear energy, too dependent on Electrobel, too dependent on a private sector concerned with profits rather than a coherent energy transition. And so, at the PTB, we propose to reverse things. Our alternative is a service, a public sector that ensures that the private sector does not achieve, namely the end of nuclear reactors in Belgium, the proactive development of renewable energies, the development of renewable energy storage capacities, and back-up, to ensure the flexibility of supply, modern gas plants, including cogeneration. For these reasons, colleagues, the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take the floor. I will try to be brief, because there has been a lot of time and energy spent on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u286	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u287	I was going to do so, Mr Van Rompuy, although we have spent a lot of time and energy on it. I admit, by the way, that it is difficult at the end of the journey to be particularly original. On behalf of my group, I would like to share a number of observations with you. Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate the MR, your political party, and Mr Wollants, because they have managed to express their opinion. The N-VA and the MR, the two most pronuclear political parties in this country, have succeeded in forcing the nuclear agenda to this majority and to this Parliament. That is punishment, Mrs Smeyers, especially if you look at the history of your own political movement. I invite you to visit the library of the Chamber and read what the People's Union once said about nuclear energy. Once upon a time, when there was another nuclear reactor called Objective 5 (a), the People's Union stood on the barricades to avert it. That was right after Chernobyl. At that time the Flemish nationalists were still nationalists and together with the green movement they stood hand in hand protesting against new nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u288	Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair. Today the N-VA has become the nuclear Flemish alliance and one hates almost every transfer, but the billions transfer towards Paris is no problem. The MR continues the tradition of cabinets manned with people from Electrabel, of a policy of nuclear, nuclear and yet another nuclear. They've managed to make it home, unfortunately. Colleagues, not so long ago, in 2003, there was the purple green law on the core exit. You were against that at the time. I remember very well the tirades of Mr De Crem and other CD&V room members when Olivier Deleuze came here to propose his law on the core exit. I have also pointed out that the CD&V has taken important steps in relation to that time. The party has evolved, partly in the right direction, I think. So I was talking about the purple green law of 2003 on the nuclear exit, which was very clever. That law, Mr Van Rompuy, was based on a rational and logical criterion, in particular the age of the plant. If the plant was 40 years old, it would be shut down. The oldest would therefore begin and then continue to work systematically. The law was written and approved in 2003, with the aim of starting the core exit in 2015 and ending in 2025. That was pure pragmatism. The government had 22 years to complete the core step. Regular studies were provided to prepare that exit. A strong regulator was also installed at that time. So the foundation was laid: not revolution, but evolution. Ladies and gentlemen, today this gradual law on the core exit will be definitively buried and there will be a nuclear stop, which no cat still believes in. After all, we will no longer be getting out of the car gradually. On the contrary, Parliament is being asked today to approve a calendar, whereby all power stations would be closed between 2023 and 2025. In 2003, this was a gradual core step. Today there's a nuclear stop that no cat believes in. That is the agenda of the MR, which is also the agenda of the N-VA, to continue the sabotage of the past few years. Mrs Dierick, perhaps the next step is already known. The present draft was adopted today. From tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, uncertainty will be created again. Once again, it will be asked whether it will succeed and whether that law should be implemented. Mr Clarinval even wrote about it before the draft was adopted. So the sabotage is continued. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years, was not the impossibility of the nuclear exit. The problem was the consistent sabotage of various political parties in this country. They have always wanted to create uncertainty. A gradual core step is finally sacrificed here as well as a beautiful, strong, logical law, which made Belgium a precursor in 2003, pre-Fukushima. We then had a progressive, dynamic government with the purple green government, Mr Van Rompuy. Well, that law is finally being buried today, thanks to conservative and nuclear forces, who are now happily burying the history of their own political movement. Mr Van de Velde, you are part of a new generation of N-VAS. Of course, with great joy and conviction, you approve the law on the core exit. But where have those nationalists and those people's union members of 1987 and 1988 gone? Where have they gone in the current debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u289	Mr Calvo, Mr Van de Velde wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u290	Mr Calvo, my party and I believe in the shift to renewable energy. I taped that glove locally. If we look in Antwerp at various areas where renewable energy is possible, for example wind energy, then my city is one of those cities where this is really appropriate. We could say caricatureally that we are making Antwerpers a lot of wind. Well, we make a lot of wind and we have a lot of wind near the Scheldt. In this respect, we have the right location to produce an enormous amount of wind energy. We have room for that and there are also contracts for it. However, my observation is as follows. For every windmill I have to fight a bat. For every permit I have to deliver, it's your people, along with the nature movement, who are holding us back, sabotaging us to make that renewable wind energy possible. That is the reality, which is why we still have to make nuclear energy possible here today. That is the reality, but that is not the end of it. At the same time, there's a fight going on for land. In areas where renewable energy would be possible, we will have genuinely unfeasible nature objectives, conservation objectives, which ensure that land is taken after land each time on the basis of unrealistic conservation objectives, which does not allow further expansion of renewable energy. In the Netherlands, Mr Calvo, people have been much smarter. Two things have been done there. There, first of all, it has been possible in nature areas to look at effects, but not to say beforehand on the basis of effects that it could not. That's where they thought the bats might find their way. Well, in the Netherlands they found their way. I challenge you to go with me to Woensdrecht, to stand at the border and to see that wind energy is being continuously countered in the same natural area along the Flemish side, on the other side of the border. At the same time, there is also a motocross area and a golf course. The Dutch have dealt with this in a good and sensible way and have balanced a number of activities. What's the criminal? Where you and yours stop the wind energy in the Flemish area, there are the power plants that import the green energy from the Netherlands. That is the shame we are witnessing today. That is one of the reasons why today, if we continue to sabotage the expansion of renewable energy, we will continue to effectively adhere to nuclear energy. That is a responsibility which I will put in your basket, Mr Calvo. If you say stop sabotage, stop the sabotage of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u291	I was afraid that this debate would produce little news, but it has given rise to the following news: Mr Van de Velde's passion for bats and windmills. That's a discovery for me. It shows that a parliamentary conversation is always worth having. More substantively, I found your plea that we should be able to work quickly and properly for wind projects a justified plea. That is the debate that my fellow Members have been holding on the other side for years with a Flemish majority. There are proposals from the Green Group in the European Parliament to ensure a fast-track procedure for windmills, so that they can decide more quickly and better, to wind up ships that stick their necks out locally for wind projects. There are also proposals to involve citizens in these projects. Mr Van de Velde, you know who's in control across the street? How long has the N-VA been in the Flemish government? Should there be a green Minister of Energy at Flemish level and the ships of spatial planning of the main Flemish city beg the Minister to say that it is made impossible for him to install windmills, the Minister would do something about that. You would not encounter a closed door, you would find an ally in the Flemish government. So keep your plea in the N-VA party office on Monday too. Tell this also to the Flemish N-VA ministers. Then perhaps we will take steps forward. Secondly, what is a very large pain in the ass for many windmill projects? I'm going through it myself, in my own region. Defense, airports, Belgocontrol, military airports. Where is the competent authority? Here, Mr Van de Velde! Who's in charge of Defense? Steven Vandeput! If your plea for windmills is authentic, knock on the door of Steven Vandeput's cabinet. Thirdly, the efficiency of windmills, the legal certainty of windmills, the desire of the people who want to create windmills in the port of Antwerp, are reduced by this design, Mr Van de Velde. Mr Dierick referred to the report earlier. There is a risk of overcapacity. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, We are in danger of having to switch off windmills because we will face the lack of flexibility of nuclear power plants on days of low demand, with a lot of production via wind and solar production. I would like to go with you to those investors in the port of Antwerp and say that Belgium, Flanders, Antwerp is a place where they can invest. But this isn't helping. On the contrary, what you are threatening to approve today will make life even more difficult for those people you claim to be partners with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u292	Do you know what we will do then, Mr Calvo? At the same time, we will go together to the committees of the ANB, where it is full of Naturpunters who simultaneously defend their local interests in a government agency and who strangle their local interests in order to ensure that those local interests fight against wind energy. Let's do it together. I'm going to see them today. We have a project with a potential of about 100 windmills, but one does not see them moving along any sides. Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u293	If we are allowed to skim the Flemish Cabinets together, I would be happy to take you on a tour of the environmental movement. We will soon find out who the most cooperative people are. I don't have a problem with that. I will conclude my speech, Mr Terwingen. The Flemish Parliament already has the habit of redeploying the Antwerp City Council, and we should not adopt that custom in the Chamber. I couldn't agree more. But you will understand that if Mr Van de Velde intervenes, I will have to reply to that somewhat. Colleagues, the MR, the French-speaking nuclear party and the N-VA, the Dutch-speaking nuclear party, are making their move at home. Mr Van Rompuy, you have just referred to Willy Claes, the Minister for Economic Affairs in 1975. Willy Claes was Minister of Economic Affairs when those nuclear power stations were launched. Today, some people may think that the debate is taking too long. At that time, there was no parliamentary debate on the launch of nuclear energy in our country. Crazy, look at it afterwards. Today, such a thing can no longer be imagined. In fact, I can live with the fact that ministers believed in nuclear energy in 1975. Really. That in 1975 people began to do so, as an act of progress optimism, I can understand that. Then there were even Disney movies about nuclear power. Mr. Van Rompuy, you should visit Our Friend the Atom on YouTube. That was a cartoon that said nuclear is fantastic, that one would have too much energy, that the problem of waste would be solved and that it was safe. Then. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been looking for a solution for the waste for 60 years now. Willy Claes couldn't have known that in 1975. Eric Van Rompuy should know that in 2016. Willy Claes could not have known in 1975 that we were going to see a nuclear disaster in Chernobyl and that we would also be faced in Fukushima with nuclear risks. Willy Claes couldn't have known that in 1975. Eric Van Rompuy should know that in 2016. When nuclear energy was given the green light in 1975, renewable energy was not yet booming, then the technology was not so mature. You should know that today. At the time I was arguing in favour of nuclear energy, I still understand one way or another. I do not understand that, Mr Van Rompuy, this is an act of pure and flat dogmatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u294	Mr President, Mr Calvo, if we are talking about history, the following. I was in the Chamber in 1986, and I believe that only Mr Dewael was there at the time, Ludo Dierickx, a distant predecessor of yours. It was during a topical debate on Chernobyl in the afternoon and there were a lot of cameras. The then Minister of Economy was Mr Maystadt. Mrs. Temmerman, in 1988 Willy Claes became Minister of Economy. That was Electrabel's husband, the man from the nuclear power plants. Also the PS after that, Elio Di Rupo has been Minister of Energy. Mrs Lalieux, Mr Di Rupo served as Federal Minister of Energy from 1993 to 1998, when I was Minister of Energy in Flanders. After Chernobyl, all the socialists defended nuclear power stations for 15 to 20 years. Mrs. Kitir, what I'm going through right now is that people are scared. You're trying to scare people of decisions for which you're responsible. (Loud protest from Mrs Temmerman)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u295	Mr Van Rompuy, what you are telling us here is incredible! Yes, we assume that we have supported nuclear energy at some point. We assume that in 2003, without you, and so much the better, we wanted to get out of nuclear power... this government that had kicked you out! And we also assume that in 2014, you voted, with us, for the release of nuclear power and the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2. It was you who ate your word and no one else! So, please, no lesson! (Rummer on the banks of sp.a)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, there is little point in going back a long way in time to see who has said what has been said. In the years 1985-86 I was seven years old. To be honest, I have not been able to predict all kinds of disasters, such as Chernobyl, such as Fukushima, such as the Di Rupo administration, such as the birth of Kristof Calvo. What I do know is that the motivation for the draft law on the core step that was adopted in 2003 was, in fact, the coalition agreement. Well, there's no letter in there about anything you say here. There is no letter about renewable energy, about nuclear waste and so on. It was about the need for a government and preferably without the shuffles. That's what it was about. What didn't they do then? You cannot know that, Mr Calvo, because you were 16 years old at the time. A plan had been made to shut down nuclear power plants, but no plans had been made to ensure that the energy sector continued to produce and that alternatives became available. Which instance first predicted that problems would arise? That was in 2007, four years after the nuclear summit was decided. That was the independent regulator you're talking about, the CREG. He put that on the table and said that we would be in trouble. Then there were ongoing debates in the Federal and Flemish Parliaments on what should not be done. No nuclear power stations were allowed to open; no coal plants were allowed to open; no biomass plants were allowed to be built. But whatever it was, you never said that. What happened? The industry has followed your call. They didn't build anything. That is the reality that we are now facing. You know what happened when those nuclear power stations temporarily closed down. The moment you were proud of the fact that we had to follow that German battle and close those nuclear power stations, we saw what was happening. The Netherlands was a net importer of electricity at the time Vande Lanotte said that we are getting all that wind energy from the Netherlands. Do you know what was going on? Coal and lignite plants in Germany. At a time when it is widely said that global warming is the biggest problem that mankind has experienced, I believe that Ban Ki-moon has underlined this once again. We say that these coal and lignite power stations should be able to run a little more. We're okay with that, as long as they're not on the other side of the border as long as they're not with us. That is an irresponsible attitude to me. If you look at it in this way and say in our country no nuclear power stations, no coal, no electricity, it is dissolved, then we are doing the wrong thing. Mr Calvo, you are well aware that the University of Stuttgart has made a very good study of coal power stations in Europe. I also asked Greenpeace this question and they never wanted to answer it. What is the effect of the coal plants? 22 000 premature deaths as a direct result of coal-based electricity production. That will not happen within 50 years, Mr Calvo, and it will not only happen if something goes wrong. That happens every year if those power stations work properly. Is that what you want to defend? Do you want to defend the fact that nuclear power stations are now being closed down and then imported from across the border? Why do we never hear about these important challenges? Is that the point? Shut the place down, get the electricity from across the border, it's the Germans' fault anyway. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u297	Mr Wollants, you deserved that applause, because you were undoubtedly the stronghold of this majority during the committee discussions. You've had to save the Minister of Energy's ass several times. I hope, then, that when this tedious process is completed, she will certainly have dinner with you, as you have helped her in the process. Mr Wollants, we've been here together since 2010. In fact, we have always shared the committees. We have a completely different conviction about nuclear power. With one of the first legislative proposals you submitted the week before Fukushima, you wanted to keep those power stations open for 60 to 70 years. Once again, we have a fundamentally different view of nuclear energy, but we have both, from our first day, first at Magnette, then at Wathelet and finally at Marghem, urged us to work on alternatives. Therefore, I do not feel addressed when you say that I am only against. I would like to talk about other things than the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. Speaking of which, it's not our choice. That is the choice made by this majority. There is a great deal of reference to what happened earlier or not. What was ahead in 2003? I repeat my point just now. That was a sloppy law that was pragmatic. It was a reasonable, far more feasible law than the legislative situation we are currently evolving. The market was then ready to begin. However, after the purple green government came the purple government and CD&V first participated in the sabotage from the opposition, then in the majority. Then there came the steep rise of the N-VA who buried the legacy of the People's Union.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Meanwhile, they have been riding for some years in this Parliament for a French energy giant. That's what happened! Ladies and gentlemen, I have three points to make and I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u298	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u299	Mr Van der Maelen, I just said that I think Mr Wollants is the revelation of the evening. I think he's argued brilliantly. Mr Calvo, I thought you were a great specialist in nuclear energy, but you disappoint me today. You do not offer any alternative and you do not offer any answer. You just announced three points in your speech. Well, I hope you will give some arguments to refute Mr Wollants' brilliant speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u300	Mr Van Rompuy, you are applying for an even more substantial and more extensive speech. If that's what you're asking, I'll take care of it. Of course, I would not end my speech without saying something about what we really want. Mr Wollants, you may contradict me if I am wrong, but there is no proposal for a decree or a bill promoting green coal or lignite. So, if you wave that, I'll feel uncomfortable again. Perhaps that is why I did not answer your question immediately. Mr Van Rompuy, you have said that you will soon be coming to the Committee on Business. Well, I'd like to submerge you further tonight. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u301	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u302	Mrs. Capoen, that's where I'm coming in. I had three criticisms, the first of which concerns safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u303	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u304	That is in my conclusion, Mr Van de Velde. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Calvo speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u306	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u307	Security, Mr Van de Velde. You're from Antwerp. Colleagues, one would expect that ships from the city of Antwerp would also feel involved in nuclear safety. Mr. Van de Velde, how far is Goal from City Hall, not far, right? Do you have any idea how many people live in a 75-mile radius around Target 1 and Target 2? The largest number, compared to all nuclear power plants in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just mentioned that experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency made comments on the safety of Objective 1 and Objective 2. Did we hear the Antwerp ships in that discussion? No, not at all. We heard him talking about the bats. However, the nuclear power plants, on which safety reports have been published and on which the Dutch and international experts are getting nervous, have not yet been heard from the city administration of Antwerp. Now, Mr van de Velde, you are irresponsible with your city administration in ignoring the issue rather than getting on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u308	Mr President, I do not think that Mr Calvo's speech is relevant, but very interesting. Mr Calvo, we did have that debate earlier, and Mr Van Rompuy made it very clear to you that you continue to frighten people. You continue to insist on this aspect, but according to all the authorities that have carried out research on it, it is clear that safety is guaranteed and that the plants are working well. After all, it is because they work well that the errors that are there are detected, otherwise they would not find them. You're gonna keep pissing people off with bad information. Mr Calvo, I would like us in the province of Antwerp to make the change together and ensure that we control the nature movement, the ANB and so on. I would like them to think together with us, instead of actually thinking about bats, about the next economy and about a new energy policy. Mr Calvo, this new energy policy will not come about because you say here that everything that is happening today is bad, but above all because you are stopping what needs to be done. That's the problem, and we'll solve it together. And if you don't want to, as good friends, but we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u309	Also a discovery of the day, N-VA doesn't think we should scare people. That's new. N-VA does so in all debates, but when we come to a parliamentary debate with objective reports on nuclear safety, people are being scared. If we used that criterion, Jambon and Francken would have a problem in many debates. But we note that N-VA no longer wants people to be scared. I will remember that for the debates of the coming weeks, Mr Van de Velde. We will probably quote you a lot of times. I want to make our position on security very clear. You referred to the post-Chernobyl debate. The late Ludo Dierickx was here on the seat after Chernobyl. I had to do that for the Green Group after Fukushima. I did so at the time with the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry post-Tshernobyl in hand. It started working in 1987 and did not complete its work until 1991; it was then a CVP era in which many governments fell. Mr Van Rompuy, do you know that there are still recommendations from 1991 on nuclear safety? Those reports already said that we had to change the nuclear emergency planning. That is why we say that continuing with this technology, as it is now being managed, is a risk. Not a huge risk, the risk is small, the chance of something happening is small, but if something happens, then things go badly wrong, especially in Doel where a lot of people live nearby. That is our plea for nuclear safety, for several years, even decades in this House. Secondly, this lifetime extension is a gift. In fact, the way this happens still bothers me more than the actual choice. The fact that this is done through a convention, a contract, I don't understand. Mrs Van Cauter, I am sorry to address you, but you are the only Flemish liberal and democrat still present. No, I'm not. I'm wrong. I am addressing the VLD Group. All this afternoon, your colleague, Mr Lijnen, has called for the time of etatism to be left behind: the market and entrepreneurship must prevail. Today, Liberals want to give the green light to a one-player state contract, in which margins are guaranteed. What does that have to do with freedom, with entrepreneurship, with market forces? Nothing! That means, that instrument, that way of working, is even anti-liberal. You honk about opening up markets, about making competition fair. This isn't right. Any other company can only dream of such a contract. The method, the convention, the guarantee of certain profits, there is even compensation at the time when those reactors are closed down. Imagine, the voter will speak out in 2019 and opt for something else. It's possible. Then we, Mr Janssens, would have to pay compensation to a private player if Parliament were to decide to go in a different direction. That's antidemocratic. In a normal country, doing energy policy in a normal way means doing it with laws, not with conventions. The image of the press conference has already been outlined, Mrs Marghem: the press conference of the ENGIE summit, together with the Prime Minister. I would like to understand, Mr Van Rompuy, that people did this in the 1970s and 1980s, but that such a press conference is still taking place today, doing old school politics and deciding to do this together and to sign it is incomprehensible to me. Thirdly, that lifetime extension is not necessary. Reference was made to the ENTSO-E report, to the CREG, to Elia. Those power stations are perfectly useless. It would have been harder, I admit, if the crack reactors hadn't been restarted. That is the correct nuance that Mrs Dierick brought to the debate a very few months ago. Today the crack reactors are turning again and you absolutely do not need Objectives 1 and 2. On the contrary, it makes the alternatives more difficult. That is the third argument. The extension is therefore not necessary for security of supply. On the contrary, she's making life harder for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u310	And now the alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u311	Our alternative is not to extend the lifespan of old nuclear power plants. Our alternative is not a nuclear stop either. Even after Fukushima, Mr Van Rompuy, we have proposed simply to implement the law as it has been adopted, unlike colleagues in other countries of my political family. In other countries, after Fukumisha, it was immediately said that nuclear power stations should be closed down. We never did. The gradual core exit is part of our vision of the future, as well as investing in energy efficiency, investing in renewable energy, in offshore and onshore, in exciting projects such as geothermal energy. Instead of making the lives of modern flexible gas plants more difficult, we want to give them a perspective. Energy innovation and energy storage are also included in an energy pact that Mrs Marghem, together with Mrs Turtelboom and her Walloon and Brussels colleagues, should have written. It should have been there a long time ago, not just in Parliament. A pact with the sector itself is also needed. Then they take steps forward. Then we could talk about something fun and something positive. In the future, we want to achieve this in our country. We want to cooperate in this. That is what I have been doing since the first day I was here, Mr Van Rompuy. I am sick and tired of all the debates here about leaking barrels, cracks and old power stations that need to be patched up. I'm sick and tired of it. Let me say that this is the responsibility of the majority, who want to extend the life of old power stations and maintain the nuclear dogma. Mrs Marghem is not here right now, but she will undoubtedly read the report. There are also a number of things that need to be done in the nuclear field. The majority will give the green light for the lifetime extension. Please also ensure that nuclear emergency planning is rapidly updated. Ensure that nuclear liability is adjusted. Mr Van Rompuy, the insurance regime for nuclear power stations, do you know that? You say you want to know things about the file. Well, the liability is limited. The rest we have to solve. The day when nuclear operators have to insure themselves for the full potential damage, there is no longer nuclear power. I think we should move towards that unlimited liability. One final point I would like to make in the debate is that I would like to look forward, because the fees for decommissioning are not yet in order. The legislation is raging on all sides. There may be a mega-invoice coming at us. This too must be given greater attention by the hemisphere, by the majority and by the opposition in the coming months. I'm rounding up. I've been talking longer than planned. Where the heart is full, the mouth is overflowing. The interruptions have also ensured this. In fact, Mr Degroote, it was my intention to be very brief, to turn that page as quickly as possible, because I am really not happy with what is being decided here today, as I was particularly indignant at the time when the previous government extended Tihange 1. I would very much like to be involved in other matters as a young Member of Parliament. I would very much like to see a young Prime Minister, who was born after the opening of our nuclear power stations, come up with a future plan. Unfortunately, that is not here today. Unfortunately, you are making a historic mistake and you are even taking steps backwards. I am 100 percent convinced of a case. If we look back at the present time in 15 years' time, we will be amazed at what was decided in 2016 and the crazy view is that the life of old nuclear power stations has been extended by another ten years. The world is already changing. What you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are doing goes against the spirit of time. That is very unfortunate, because we, as ecologists, stand for future generations. We would have liked them to have had a perspective in the hemisphere today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u312	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pleasure to discuss and go into the slightest detail with the members of the committee with whom I have been working for more than 15 months on all these issues, but also with the members of Parliament in plenary session. The subject before us today is of great importance. It affects electricity, i.e. electricity supply throughout the country – not only consumers, but also businesses – under decent price conditions, in sufficiency and in compliance with the environment. It is this fundamental subject that will, I have no doubt, generate very fruitful debates in the coming weeks. Indeed, together, we must imagine and wear the energy mix that will be ours in the medium and long term by providing, thanks to our reflections, the best way to replace, in 2025 and already from 2022-2023, the exit of electricity generation by nuclear in this country. Mrs Dierick said very well that, despite the enthusiasm we have to discuss all the elements, all the implications of this issue, we still had to focus on the specific purpose of our work this evening. This work concerns a text that is the financial consequence of the 10-year extension of two nuclear power plants, Doel 1 and Doel 2. This ten-year extension was achieved by the vote of the same assembly in June 2015. This financial consequence is extremely important since it will allow the federal state to register, under an energy transition fund, a sum of EUR 20 million per year for ten years, all the time from the extension until the end of nuclear power in Belgium in 2025. This money will be used to support research and development in electricity generation and storage, precisely the alternatives we need. These alternatives were strongly recalled earlier by a few speakers. They said that, yes, we can worry about the findings; yes, some of us want to go so far that it could make them look demagogic and make them think that the idea they are pursuing is only to scare the public by their way of understanding the energy issue and being against the ten-year extension of these two nuclear power plants. But, yes, too, the majority is saying that we must look for very serious alternatives and that, taking into account all the elements under discussion, we must ensure that the accompanying plan for the exit from nuclear power, as voted in 2003, is finally designed, carried out and concretely practical for our country in the years to come. That is what I would like to remind colleagues. At the time of the vote, we are ensuring that this country has the necessary security of supply. I'm coming back to Mrs. Dierick, who explained it very well. All the studies you're talking about make three-year forecasts. Do we know today whether, in ten years' time, we will have too little or too much energy in this country? In this case, is it not interesting – Mr. Bert Wollants has said very well – that Belgium, like other countries in surplus of production (such as Germany with all its renewables), at some point, can again become an exporter of its energy or at least have the capacity of energy independence at a reasonable price to support its population and businesses? Should I recall that, since November 2015, the return to the Doel 3, Tihange 2 general circuit and the subsequent extension of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 has reduced the price of the MWh from ten to eight euros, and thus reduced the market to 600 million euros. For citizens and companies that have a flexible contract, this has enabled them to have cheaper electricity, produced in Belgium. All this is very important and we will have to be able to inaugurate it in the work related to the energy pact. So, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need these financial means to pursue and design what has not been so since 2003: a valid energy pact to enable our country to have the necessary independent supply at an affordable price, in accordance with the protection of our environment. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this text. Indeed, it is he who allows us – contrary to what some people are saying, because they do not see it yet – to move from yesterday's energies to those of the future. So don't hesitate, ladies and gentlemen! Vote this text with us! You will see: we will work together. I heard Mr. Calvo was going with Mr. Van de Velde, imagine alternative solutions for energy production in the Flemish Region. I think that's how we have to work. That is how we will be working in committee in the coming weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u313	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, the debate has been lengthy. The reports attest to this. Perhaps you have avoided responding to all our legal arguments on security of supply, on nuclear security, on the security of citizens. This may be better for the whole of this Parliament than you again insult the Council of State, you demonstrate that you are right against everyone, and you also despise Elia, CREG, DG Energy in the context of what they have put forward, as well as all the experts, who speak exactly contrary to yours. But the majority will follow you, because you have "chained" to Electrabel and this majority can no longer say a word. Madam Minister, fortunately we are not starting a debate today on your energy pact, as I said earlier, Madam Minister, you promised an energy pact in 2015. You promised it in 2016. But you do not yet have the ounce of a method to achieve your energy pact. Mrs. Dierick, it's good to believe it. But you don't believe in it too much because you have tabled a resolution. You don't believe in this minister. You do not believe in this government in its ability to achieve this energy pact. Neither do we! That's clear. Madam Minister, it is true that electricity has fallen, and this is obviously not thanks to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. But what all citizens know is that this government has increased the VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%. No matter what contracts you have, no matter how low the price of electricity, it's a direct and unfair tax on all citizens, Minister! So, once again, I think that this majority – I am no longer talking to the government because its draft is on the table – by rejecting all the amendments, Mr Van Rompuy, which allow without any problem to continue this project, rejects amendments that ensure security vis-à-vis Europe, security vis-à-vis tomorrow if justice ever asks to close Doel 1 and Doel 2 and security vis-à-vis nuclear safety. The project can continue, but because it was simply annexed to an agreement and signed by that government, your Prime Minister, your Minister of Energy and a CEO of a multinational company, you cannot even change a comma there, Mr Van Rompuy! If you call it a democracy, if you call it a parliamentary dynamic, I don't! Democracy was stolen by a signature in front of television cameras with big smiles. You stole democracy! I really think it's new in this Parliament. Not only are we already having two bills, but we will have a third one where tens and hundreds of millions of euros are going to be lost by the state on the back of the taxpayer and for the glory of a multinational!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u314	Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the majority, I would like to congratulate the minister, who, on behalf of the government, brought this bill, which is essential for securing the supply of energy and electricity to businesses and households in this country over the next few years. She called him back earlier. In addition, the Minister again justified all the points that were raised again this evening. I say "again," because, throughout the six months of parliamentary debate, during which we examined this bill, during the 90 hours we spent examining it, it had already answered many times, precisely, the questions you had asked. I know the plenary show was probably important to you. But these questions had already been answered many times. The most important thing today is not a theft of democracy, but a charge of EUR 20 million which, every year, will feed into a strategic fund that will allow the development of new possibilities for energy exploitation. We will support the minister's bill. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u315	Minister, the depth of the hollow of your answer is equal only to the height of the gift you give to Electrabel. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u316	Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u317	Mr President, I regret this hollow. And, while regretting it, I understand it. Madam Minister, you have already filled this issue with so many legal breaches that it would probably be better, from this point of view, not to respond to each of the points that the opposition has raised here. I regret it, but I understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u318	Mr President, excuse me for being a little surprised by Mr Friart's striking shortcut, given the many demands in this debate, which has been going on for several hours now. To the questions, the inquiries, the legal comments from the Council of State, the lawyers, the remarks on the contradictions between the positions of the Minister in the same document, we did not receive any answers to our specific questions. Know that we are deeply disappointed, and perhaps even bruised, that we have been considered in this way! This bill is, as we have defined it, a bill of legal fiction, since it was co-signed and introduced by Electrabelge. Minister, you really are the caricature of this electra-belge government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u319	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u320	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1511/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1511/8) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending the Act of 31 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production with a view to setting the annual fee due for the extension of the nuclear power plants Objective 1 and Objective 2'. The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending the law of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear energy for industrial electricity production, with a view to fixing the annual fee payable for the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants". The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u321	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u322	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u323	I propose to you the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Roel Deseyn) amending the Code of Income Tax 1992 with regard to the fees for second-line legal assistance, No. 637/1, to be referred to the Committee on Justice in order to add it to the draft law amending the Court's Code on Legal Assistance, No. 1819/1. I propose that you refer the bill to the Committee on Justice (MM. Raf Terwingen and Roel Deseyn) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to allowances for second-line legal aid, No. 637/1, in order to attach it to the bill amending the Judicial Code with regard to legal aid, No. 1819/1. This proposal was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u324	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2016, I also propose to you the motion for a resolution (Mrs Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) on capacity maintenance of the rail network as an absolute priority, No. 1868/1 to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u325	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2016, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke) to make maintaining the capacity of the rail network a top priority, No. 1868/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u326	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u327	The Government requested urgent treatment pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending, with a view to the transposition of Directive 2013/50/EU and the implementation of Regulation 596/2014, the law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services, the law of 16 June 2006 on the public offer of investment instruments and the admission of investment instruments to the marketing on a regulated market and the law of 2 May 2007 on the disclosure of major holdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market and laying down various provisions, and laying down various provisions, No. 1835/1. The Government has requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when introducing the bill amending, with a view to transposing Directive 2013/50/EU and implementing Regulation 596/2014, the Act of 2 August 2002 on supervision of the financial sector and financial services, the Act of 16 June 2006 on public offers of investment instruments and admissions of investment instruments to trading on regulated markets, and the Act of 2 May 2007 on the advertising of large holdings in issuers whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market and with various provisions, with various provisions, No. 1835/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u328	Mr President, this is indeed the question of the urgent consideration of the draft law No. 1835 transposition of two directives relating to transparency and abuse of power regulation. In order not to undermine the abuse of power objective of market integrity pursued by the Regulation, it is very important that Belgian law provides for at least the designation of the competent authority by 3 July 2016 at the latest and gives it the power to act against infringements of that Regulation. Given the urgency of the market abuse component, the substantive link with the transposition of the modified Transparency Directive and the fact that it should have already been transposed into Belgian law, the urgent treatment of this draft law is relevant and necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u329	Mr President, I am speaking to you because it was agreed last week in the Conference of Presidents that the Group Heads would receive the list of texts requested by the urgency. So much so, we had it last week, so much so, this week, on a personal basis, I did not receive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u330	We received it by email. Personally, I saw the emergency email. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. The urgency is accepted when sitting and getting up. The emergency is adopted by sitting and lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u331	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 25 May 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 25 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 146/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 146/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u332	Mr President, I submitted a similar interview last year and asked the Minister for a number of things. Almost a year ago, I requested up-to-date figures on the language skills of the Brussels police. I didn't get an answer. I was surprised to see a press release by Mr Vanlouwe of the N-VA, in which he claims to have received figures from the Minister for the Interior. I did not find a parliamentary question on this. I am counting on you, Mr President, to reply to my letter on this matter. A few days later I received the figures I had asked for, and I found it worthwhile again to interview Minister Jambon about this one and a half years later. What Mr Vanlouwe writes in his press release is justified. He demands that language legislation in the capital be respected. He says that it is incomprehensible that the illegal situation of monolingualism continues with Brussels agents, and even deteriorates in certain police areas. The nod that would be made, as Minister Jambon promised me, has clearly not yet come. Four out of ten cops aren't bilingual. Mr Vanlouwe proposes three measures to remedy this, exactly the same as those I asked Minister Jambon a year ago: that the Brussels local authorities should only recruit agents with a bilingualism certificate, that there should be sufficient control over recruitment by re-presenting them to the vice-governor as was the case in the past and that the Brussels government should now destroy illegal appointments. Colleagues of the N-VA, I have very good news for you, three times good news even. It is your own Minister for the Interior, Jambon, who is perfectly competent to implement those three measures. The second good news is that you do not even need a two-thirds majority; language legislation can be adapted by simple majority. The third good news is that it is not even within the Community's standstill, because it is purely about the application of existing legislation. Colleagues of the N-VA, if that press release is not purely for the show and if you want to add actions to those words, then you can only support the motion of a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u333	Mrs. Pas, I've seen your letter. There's an answer on the way to the Home Secretary. You'll get a copy of that. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 91 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u334	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 7. (1816/3) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 7. (1816/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[40]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u335	Mr President, I abstained. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u336	Of which act. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Georges Gilkinet on Article 7. (1816/3) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Georges Gilkinet to Article 7. (1816/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 49 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u337	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1816/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1816/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u338	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1454/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1454/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u339	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1843/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1843/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u340	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1419/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1419/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u341	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1735/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1735/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u342	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 123 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1849/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1849/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u343	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, No. 1864/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, No. 1864/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u344	Mr President, the individualised social integration project is a contract between the beneficiary and the CPAS. The effective date has been scheduled for September 1st. Apart from the fact that this bill will be considered by this assembly and the Public Health Commission, the reform requires the adoption of a royal decree and a circular, in order to determine the modalities, on the one hand, and to be able to anticipate the procedure of payment to the CPAS of the subsidy increased by 10%, on the other hand. This necessarily implies a vote on the draft before the parliamentary holidays, which justifies the government's urgent request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u345	Mr President, there is no reason for urgency. We received explanations about the methodology and the process itself, but nothing about the urgency. For example, we have not heard any budgetary justification for savings that could be achieved. What has just been explained leads us to say that there could be an increased subsidy. However, this would only occur if the plan was itself signed between the person and the CPAS. Otherwise, no payments would be made. The only decision that was made today by the government concerns the date of entry into force on September 1, 2016. And that is the only element that could possibly justify the urgency, simply because the government has decided on the date of implementation of the decision. This means that, if we follow normal parliamentary work, we could have a later implementation date. There is no justification to date for any urgency, be it in terms of the budget, in terms of an economy which has been decided, in terms of an award, whether in terms of a contract. What has just been explained to Parliament is not on the road at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u346	Thank you, Mr. President. I shall begin by regretting the absence of the minister responsible for integration, Mr Borsus, to defend himself this emergency which is not. What is urgent in Belgium is to fight tax fraud, not to exclude those who have trouble even further. The project that has been announced has already generated a lot of feedback from the CPAS federations of the three regions, from the organisations representing the public concerned. The urgency has no other purpose than to prevent normal and useful parliamentary work from being conducted by the parties concerned, which would perhaps allow this text to be nuanced, I hope, to change course and actually understand what it is going on. We formally challenge this urgency, which is only political and has no societal interest, nor in terms of the quality of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u347	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u348	Mr President, I appeal to you, since no emergency elements have been reported. This means, therefore, that the government could, if it wished, each time make bills by imagining a short-term coming into force and calling for urgency here, thus completely flouting parliamentary debate. You must intervene on our behalf! Parliament's rights are really being violated!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u349	Mrs Onkelinx, we have applied Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure. The urgency is requested by the government and it is up to the House to decide on this matter. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u350	Vote on Amendment No Forty-six by Michel de Lamotte on Article 2. (1511/15) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 2. (1511/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 44 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 43 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. (1511/15) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. (1511/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u351	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. (1511/15) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. (1511/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 48 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted, with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted, with a correction to the text. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Karine Lalieux cs to insert an article 3(n). (1511/15) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Karine Lalieux cs to insert an Article 3(n). (1511/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u352	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u353	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 82 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1511/16) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1511/16)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-02-54-plenair-ip113x.u354	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 9 June 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 9 June 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 9 June 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
