ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u1	Colleagues, please stand up. During the night of Sunday to Monday, a dramatic rail accident occurred, causing several victims: three people died, others were injured. Among them is a railwayman. It must never be forgotten that it was the worker who paid with his life. All my thoughts, and I think I can speak on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, go first to the victims and, of course, to their loved ones, but also to all the commuters who use our trains every day, as well as to the railway community. I would also like to congratulate on your behalf the relief services, who acted very quickly to save as many lives as possible. Finally, I greet all the SNCB and Infrabel teams. I invite you to observe now a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u2	Contrary to what had been announced, Mr Borsus will not be present in our work. He informed the secretariat that since he was in charge of overseeing the safety and interoperability services of the railways and the investigation was under way, he could not do anything more today. We'll see about it later. Colleagues, we are meeting for a first exchange with the Minister. I suggest that we organize the continuation of our work on this tragic accident at the end of the sitting, because we know that the minister must leave us at 5:00 p.m. and for the organization of our work, we do not need him. I'd like to say a few words. We're not here to sue anyone. We know that the investigation is under way, that the investigators and the prosecution are doing their job. But on behalf of this committee, I would simply like to ask the minister that this inquiry be conducted in the most serene way possible, completely, but also in a transparent manner. The committee, the railway workers and the citizens must have full transparency. Minister, through the press, many questions have already been asked. I imagine that they will also be here, in particular on the implementation of rail safety, on the problem of signal lights, on the issue of investments, savings, staffing and safety culture within the company. So many questions we will have to work with you on. Not all will find answers today, but I ask you, Minister - and we will organize our work in this way - to be as transparent as possible. Of course, we will see other actors on this dramatic accident. Colleagues, first of all, I suggest that you hear the minister. You will then have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I join you, the various governments, the relatives and the anonymous in ensuring the families of the victims with all our support, even if we know that support will never bring a loved one back to life. We must do sobriety, simplicity and humanity. After I was called, on the night of Sunday to Monday, to warn me that an accident had occurred and as I received information about it, I remembered the tragedy of Buizingen. This type of accident is always moving, even if you have responsibilities and are not directly related to the victims. The emotion aroused by this new accident is lively and plunges us back into the difficult moments that we have already been able to experience. Three people, including a railwayman, lost their lives. Many of them were injured, including a very serious one. Families are being touched in the heart. My thoughts go, in the first place, towards them. As you have done, Madam President, I would also like to thank the men and women of the relief services as well as the companies, the anonymous, the neighbours, the users who had not been injured who immediately mobilized to help the victims. It is during this kind of tragedy that we see that our citizens still know how to stick together for the right cause. Four investigations are being carried out today: an investigation by the public prosecutor, an investigation by the research body of the FPS Mobility and the two investigations of the railway companies. Both railway companies, of course, give their full support to the official researchers, so that they can be fully clear about the circumstances in which the accident occurred. I follow this case with great attention, however, and recall the principle of reservation that prevails during an ongoing judicial investigation. I am therefore not in a position, at this stage, to provide concrete answers to the assumptions that are circulating. Security issues are important to every minister. They are all the more so for me because I chaired part of the Buizingen Committee and because this parliamentary work has enriched me with a professional and humane understanding of this area. Let me make it clear that I want to avoid shortcuts and amalgams between the various debates on railways, productivity and safety. It is possible to improve its productivity without prejudice to safety. Companies have always considered safety as their top priority. Security is not decreed but is built over time. The productivity increases proposed by management do not affect safety. Considering foreign operators with a higher level of productivity than our railways - France, the Netherlands and Switzerland for example - it cannot be said that their safety is at risk. This proves that an evolution towards greater efficiency is not incompatible with a thorough attention to safety. In view of the circumstances, I am open to move forward the sitting originally scheduled by your committee on 28 June, on the follow-up to the recommendations of the Buizingen Committee. As I have already indicated, Infrabel has not received from the King's prosecutor, who has been very firm in this regard, permission to communicate on elements, however minor, relating to the ongoing investigation. In the current state of affairs and on this specific accident, neither SNCB nor Infrabel can formulate elements that are likely to disrupt the work of justice. We met with the King's prosecutor on the spot during the night of Sunday to Monday, he was very clear about it. If this is not the case, it will take the necessary steps in its power to call to order and prosecute those who would derogate from this principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u4	Thank you, Minister. Each group will intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is particularly sad that we now have to exchange views in the event of a fatal accident. In turn, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of this train disaster. I hope for a serene debate, which, of course, does not mean that we, as committee members, must fulfil our task and make an effort to get an answer to the many questions that have not been answered today. Today on the front page of De Standaard, not the least newspaper in Flanders, it says that Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse on line 125, the place where the accident happened, would not be equipped with the safety system TBL1+. Several sources at Infrabel have confirmed that. Those are the same signals I'm picking up. The same article refers to the CEO of Infrabel, who proudly announced a few months ago that 100 percent of the rail network would be equipped with that safety system. A few days ago, the spokesperson of Infrabel nuded this and said that it is actually only 99.9 %. There are indeed a number of places not equipped with that safety system. The decision whether or not to equip tracks with the TBL1+ system depends on a number of criteria, such as speed, the number of trains passing through, a turn in the route, etc. According to specialists, line 125 is an important Walloon railway line. It is the railway link between Namur and Liège and there are many trains. Moreover, there has been an accident there in the past. There is therefore no reason to not install a safety system in that place. The question that lies on everyone's lips is how such a thing can happen. How is it possible there wouldn't be a security system there? We invest so much in safety and yet such a thing happens. That's completely incomprehensible. On the other hand, there was an invitation to tender to roll out a safety system in that place. That document exists. On 7 November 2014, a public contract was signed by TUC RAIL. What's under the government contract? Several projects, including the realisation of new signalling installations. I quote from the document: "The execution of works for the placement of TBL1+ beacons, including the connecting cables'. Those interventions provide for five signalling points along line 125, also heading B 10-7, or Hermalle-sous-Huy, exactly the place of the accident. This project, including the roll-out of the TBL1+ safety system, had to start in September 2015. This is a major project that takes many months of work, but in a logical course one should have been about halfway and the area of Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse could probably be effectively covered. Colleagues, it was thus already decided in 2014 that installations should have been built here that could have avoided possible accidents like this. The obvious question is, therefore, why are they not here today, more than two years after the call for tenders and the award of contracts? Why hasn't that rolled out yet? What's with the delay? In the media, including in the social media, some people try to make a political contribution by making savings. That's bullshit, Minister. It is nonsense because of savings, because the budget for this project, in terms of security, has been provided for, but it has remained untouched. This has absolutely nothing to do with any savings, this government does not save on security. So the problem lies in implementation. That is a very strange story, ladies and gentlemen, because the contractor to whom this project was awarded has been collecting all public tenders in the province of Liège since 2012. That company manages to win every TUC RAIL project, in one hundred percent of cases, but only in the province of Liège, nowhere else. That is somewhat curious, as the company's seat is in East Flanders. This contractor succeeds in always going below the price of all competitors. However, it would not be the cheapest, because outside the award procedure a lot of costs are charged. In itself, it is not illogical for certain costs to be added, but this often involves additional costs of between 25% and 100% of the award price. This is a particularly successful contractor, so successful that it does not always have the task of carrying out the projects for which the award is awarded. This project was systematically delayed up to four times. There is so much delay that work has still not started today, eight months after the intended starting date. The budgets are foreseen, but therefore unused. Again, it proves that the problem is not in government funding. On the contrary, it is a problem of a very different order, Minister. I've been asking a lot of written questions about projects in Liège for over a year. I have already asked questions about this particular project, among other things. They are very technical dossiers and questions and it is not as obvious as the committee to understand all the projects. The reason why I am persisting and trying to get a look at the situation for months is because here at least there is a suspicion that there is fraud in the procurement process by TUC RAIL. That suspicion exists at least.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u6	Mr Raskin, you're talking about fraud in public procurement. I'd like us to stick to the accident. All you've said at the moment is good, but I'm asking you to stay on the subject of the accident. You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u7	I'll finish, Madam President. In what way and with the help of whom the contractor manages to retrieve all these projects, including in the area of the accident, these will be questions to which the investigation will have to answer. Minister, I have asked a lot of questions on this matter in committee. I'd like to formally call you to dig that case to the bone. There's a rotten place in TUC RAIL. This file stinks. Once again, and for the umpteenth time in this legislature, I have already dealt with such matters, and it appears that the administrative autonomy of SNCB is being abused by some, not everyone, in order to create questionable structures. We must have the courage to have this debate here. This can only improve the safety of the tracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u8	Thank you, Madam President. As you have done, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims. As you said, minister, we are in mourning, but we are also in a period of investigation. Four investigations are under way. For my part, I think it is premature to hold a lively debate, as you said yourself. Time is at the collection and beginning of the investigation. You have just pointed out that it is necessary to be not careful but very careful in this matter. My group prefers to avoid talking about assumptions. On the other hand, we will be at the meeting when the investigations are carried out and the first evidence confirmed. We shall then discuss together the conclusions to be drawn, the responsibilities proved and, of course, all the necessary measures to be taken, whether budgetary, material or human. We'll be on the rendezvous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u9	I, like my colleagues and like the minister, would like to associate myself with the emotion that we all felt after the accident that followed that of Buizingen, which the minister lived as chairman of the committee of inquiry. The memories came back to us on this occasion: 15 February 2010, 5 June 2016, 19 deaths in Buizingen, 3 in Saint-Georges, it is a tragedy. As is often the case, when a tragedy takes place, we must, if I may say so, be positive and ensure that the decisions already in motion since the conclusions of the Buizingen Committee are speeded up and that Infrabel and the SNCB are in the process of implementing them. Minister, I would like to thank you for your proposal to advance the annual date of the report by the two CEOs (Infrabel and SNCB) on the progress of Infrabel's conclusions, the commission of inquiry and their implementation by Infrabel and SNCB. That's very positive. I hope that at this point we will not be under the compulsion of the current investigation, in which case we may be a little stuck. We can only thank you for your proposal. Indeed, many questions arise. We will have more than likely the opportunity, when we meet Mr. Lallemand, CEO of Infrabel, responsible for the problem of signage, to ask him a whole series of questions on this subject. Beyond the survey itself, it is useful to point out that 99 per cent of routes are already served, even though questions have been raised in today's press. However, as far as ETCS is concerned, there is still a long way to go until the file is complete. Unfortunately, on occasion of this horrific accident, Mr Lallemand, Head of Infrabel, and the CEO of SNCB will have to be questioned about a possible acceleration of the ETCS installation. Maybe it's not possible. Similarly for cabins, a great deal of effort has already been made. One of the conclusions of the Buizingen Commission was to rationalise and modernise them. At present, when a cab burns, all traffic must be stopped. With the new cabins, this will no longer be the case and this will mean less staff mobilization. This is one of the questions that people ask: Is there a link between productivity and safety? In any case, this part of the cabins is a means of responding to it. Finally, although there are still many questions to ask when we meet with the two CEOs, I would like to address the issue of the suspension of the Thalys Wallon announced by Minister Galant, because of the lack of adequate security. I think we should also know where we are about that. It is clear that we would have preferred not to have to discuss this today. It must be remembered that things are not perfect in any state. While we are only 19% of the implementation of ETCS, we are well ahead of other European countries. A country as developed as Germany has also experienced a major rail accident. This does not reduce the problem in any way, but it must make us bounce back and move forward in securing as much rail traffic as possible, which will be increasingly used by the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u10	Madam President, first of all, I would of course like to express my sympathy to the families, the victims, the passengers, the train crew and all the other staff of the SNCB Group. I also thank all the emergency services. Sunday evening was a bit scared to hear again about a dramatic train accident. I believe that we are still in this committee with three people, Mr Geerts, Mr Minister and myself, who have been actively involved in the Buizingen Committee. This has had a real impact on our work and our commitment as a Member of Parliament. That attention to rail safety has been very much embedded ever since. The shock was all the greater when I heard yesterday that there might be a lack of equipment with the safety system. There'd be a connection to the accident. I won't analyze the accident in itself. I think we should wait and see. Hearing that about a third of all signals would not have been equipped with the TBL1+ system was a great shock to me. In the Buizingen Committee, we have paid a great deal of attention to safety systems. A great deal of emphasis was placed on this at the time. We were sometimes accused of paying too much attention to it. We were called not only to look at safety systems, but also at safety culture, training and so on. These were justified criticisms. A great deal of attention has also been paid to safety systems in the multi-annual investment programme. A large amount of funding has been allocated for the roll-out of TBL1+. This was the first step towards a further roll-out of the top safety system, the ETCS. With the TBL1+ system, however, we would be a lot further. At the end of 2012 was an important moment. They were at 87 % coverage. Full coverage with TBL1+ would be achieved by the end of 2015. That was also the question of the Buizingen Committee. In this way, it was explicitly expressed in the texts. It was also expressed in this way by the Minister and the CEO of Infrabel, namely a full roll-out of TBL1+ by the end of 2015. Afterwards, tables and powerpoint presentations have consistently emphasised safety as the most important priority. Whatever would happen with the financial contributions, it was always mentioned that safety would not be reduced. 99.9 % coverage efficiency was also constantly mentioned. I may have been naive, along with my fellow Members, but I never asked for a definition of coverage efficiency. That is a mistake that I may have blamed myself, us, but what that means is that I never fully realised. In fact, I was assuming, and I think my fellow Members will be speaking with me, but you may contradict me if you think otherwise, that it was then about signals in railway bundles and yard stations that would not be equipped with them, but not a signal on a busy rail section where daily passenger trains pass. I assumed that these lines would be fully equipped with the TBL1+ system. I think it is crucial that we invite the CEO of Infrabel to our committee as soon as possible to get the necessary explanation. I really find it almost offensive to note that something to which we have paid so much attention in the aftermath of the dramatic accident in Buizingen with 18 dead and 150 injured, which we put forward as a priority and which has been repeatedly said by the CEOs who have been here over the past 5.5 years, was their absolute priority, which today does not provide enough safety and certainly not 99.9 %. A serious explanation is in order. For now, I'd like to leave it at that. Another edge remark. The issues raised by Mr Raskin are unknown to me, but I agree with his call for this to be investigated and investigated on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u11	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday evening, in the dense fog along the banks of the Meuse, something happened which we hoped would never happen again and which we sincerely thought could not happen again. A passenger train drove at considerable speed on a stationary freight train and thus caused a real disaster in which three fatalities were to be regretted. We have a mixed feeling, first and foremost a deep sadness, that is to say condolences to the families of the victims and the families of the wounded, but also a feeling of great concern. My colleague Jef Van den Bergh called it shock. There is great concern because of the reports, not only in the press but also from the railway company itself, about the security systems on our tracks. Of course, it is important to carry out a thorough investigation now to learn the necessary lessons from this terrible accident. It'll take some time. For Open Vld, however, this should not be an excuse to leave a number of questions unanswered in the short term. It is then a question in the sense of whether the signal in question was secured by a TBL1+ beacon. Secondly, were the recommendations made in connection with the previous similar accident carried out at the same location eight years ago? In our view, these are not questions that require a detailed examination, a simple yes or no is sufficient. It therefore seems very important to us that Infrabel arrives here in this committee as soon as possible and does not hide behind the criminal investigation started as we read in the press release sent today by Infrabel. Apparently there was an answer given to the Minister that the prosecutor was not allowed to say anything. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the criminal investigation is, of course, secret. In my view, however, this does not mean that essential information about the railway company's security systems can and must be given. Parliament has the right to obtain this information at all times. Infrabel's last annual safety report of 2015 states: "The installation of the TBL1+ automatic stop system has been completed since the end of 2015 and is therefore in service at the main nodes of the Belgian network. The efficiency coverage thus reaches 99,99 %, as foreseen in the Master Plan. Does this mean that this accident is that one chance at ten thousand that was out of efficiency coverage? This is a question to which our group would like to be clarified in this House in the near future. I shall confine my speech to this today out of respect for the victims of this dramatic accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u12	Madam President, our group also wishes to express its condolences to the victims and their families. That is why I shall make my statement in general today. Madam President, I regret that Mr Borsus is not here. I said this at the beginning of the formation of the government. We have given this man some powers against will and thanks, but at times like this it would be a good thing for the minister to be here. I refer to one of the recommendations of the Buizingen Committee at the time. Mr Van den Bergh also mentioned that we are left with only a limited number of members of that special committee. If an accident has occurred, as the Minister has already said, the investigation is carried out at different levels. At that time, we said that the relatives and the victims needed information and transparency. We have an investigative body that can work independently of judicial investigations. At the time, I asked the ERA the question. I also put parliamentary questions to the Minister of Justice at the time, Mrs Turtelboom, and to all your predecessors, Mr Minister. Therefore, I regret that Mr Borsus is not here and that the judicial authorities are making a memorandum or understanding between that investigating body, so that this investigating body can give an initial indication in the short term, three to four months. If that is not possible, one should also say why it cannot be done. We believe that it is essential to initiate the process of dealing with the victims. So far my message, as it were, to Minister Borsus. I hope it will be given to the government. My speech is largely in line with that of Mr Van den Bergh. We have discussed countless hours of traffic accidents, risk analyses, the various aid systems and safety systems. We have heard many times about the extent to which investment in safety also involves risk analysis, for example in order to reduce the risk of a train accident. I remember a strong discussion between our experts and Infrabel about two tables stating that there was a reduction of 75% according to the experts and of 83% according to Infrabel. I am looking at colleague Van den Bergh. We spent hours discussing the multiplier effect and how it should be calculated. Those were difficult technical discussions, but we thought they were essential. Sometimes the remark came that we also had to look at other things than effective signal collisions and the like. Madam President, a few weeks ago I wrote a letter to you for the purpose of regulating the work. I wanted a new debate on signal collisions. That was because I had seen in Infrabel's annual report that the number of signals had increased again, not only in the bundle of goods, as was once said, but also on the main lines. The number of near collisions had also increased sharply. I believe that no one can deny it: safety is absolutely important for Infrabel, for SNCB and for the people of the FOD. Security has been put back on the political agenda. It is true, Mr Raskin, that there is a decision not to save money on safety. I believe that everyone in this House supported that. A number of groups have even asked whether other elements in which investment was necessary were not threatened because so much money had been allocated for that security. I do not know where you are getting your information, and I do not doubt your statement, but if it turns out that there is a problem with wrong procurement or corruption, I do not dare to take that word in the mouth because I do not have enough information, then I think that the court should examine it as soon as possible. There can be no discussion on this, Mr Raskin. I shall come back to the aspect of security. On Sunday I was very surprised that this could happen and last night I fell off my chair after I got text messages from staff who told me to look at the VTM News, saying that a third of the signals are not equipped with TBL1+. I looked in my closet. You have undoubtedly been given that table and Mr Van den Bergh has quoted it. It states that by 31 May, or even earlier, 99.9 % will be equipped with TBL1+. That is the table we have always been given. Following our 119 recommendations, there was systematically a green size indication of what had been achieved. We thought that was very good. I knew that in a bundle of goods not all signals would be equipped with a TBL1+. That has always been said here, and I do not think there was any discussion on this either. I was completely surprised to learn that a third of the signals are not equipped with TBL1+. When I hear it being communicated in this House, I can formally say that I must have just been outside. I thought I was always sitting in my chair. I checked my notebooks. I've never heard that say. Mr Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Van den Bergh referred to Infrabel's communication. It makes it very clear how TBL1+ works. It also states that this is the most recent and safest aid system and that all major rail nodes in Belgium have been equipped with it since the end of 2012. Then it says that the entire rail network has been equipped with it since the end of 2015. If that is on that website today, then I wonder to what extent that is in contradiction with the information we have now. I know, however, that an analysis of safety must be carried out, as I said earlier, which is 75% or 83%. I also remember the criticism that the current Minister of State also expressed at the time in the Buizingen Commission. He then suggested that the engineering logic that we were presented with at some point in that committee should not make the committee think that they were stupid. At that time, the committee considered that it was in a position to make that distinction. Is what's on that website today and what's being communicated, some kind of disinformation? I would therefore ask you, Minister, to request an analysis of risk cover as soon as possible. If it turns out that 99.9 % equipment with TBL1+ is less than, for example, 75% risk cover, this is essential information. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to tell us here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u13	I will be brief because the one who knows the file particularly well and who follows it is obviously my colleague, Marcel Cheron. I introduced an oral question to both Ministers Bellot and Borsus because it was also necessary to be able to express our full support and compassion for the victims, but also because we know that when such a disaster occurs, it is usually through the coexistence of a whole series of causes and factors. It is rarely an element that causes disasters such as these. It seemed important to me that work could be done, not necessarily to have answers today, but to address the various dimensions in terms of whether or not the programming of the braking system's installations, the implementation of Buizingen's recommendations, but also investment or disinvestment policies both in infrastructure and in savings, not to mention the pressures on staff, both from SNCB and Infrabel. Beyond the investigations carried out, Minister, you will have to reflect on the results of the arrangements made over the past several years, which have been planned and their impact on responsiveness, on the ability to be present or not, on the capacity to have the necessary infrastructure and equipment. The last element of my question, which I particularly stress, is that we have heard today the families and victims of this famous Buizingen accident. Families affected by this type of accident report that they have not been sufficiently heard, that they are not sufficiently taken into account in all the psychological, physical and material dimensions, in listening and in interaction with them. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether everything is in place to ensure that these victims can be accompanied from the moment of the accident, but also on a continuous and continuous basis, throughout the investigation process, as well as the reparations that may have to be paid for these victims. These victims are close to me, I am from this region of Liège and I am also a rail user. These people are also flesh and bone beings that are part of the people I met or met.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u14	Madam President, I wish to associate myself very solemnly with this emotion. This Infrastructure Commission began with the tribute to be made. It is a case where respect must be total. We must bow to the memory of the victims of this accident. My predecessor in this committee, Ronny Balcaen, had often explained to me the important work that had been done after Buizingen. Every year, the 109 Buizingen recommendations are examined, thanks to this follow-up and programming. My colleague Geerts suggested discussing the problem of signal overruns. On the 28th of June, we will have the opportunity to work on it in concrete terms, with even greater intensity after the tragedy that has just taken place. I wanted to intervene on three points. Of course, the first concerns investigations. The minister rightly said that there were not three investigations but four. Since a European directive suggested it and almost imposed it, we have set up an independent investigative body to be seized. The minister has done what is necessary. This body, which is independent of the safety authority, is responsible for investigating the most serious accidents, with the aim of pushing the investigation until we suggest that we discuss the elements to be improved effectively, in order to avoid the reproduction of causes. I join those who, after studying Buizingen, explain the multiplicity of causes at work in a process such as this one, and ask to study them well and avoid the mono-causal effect. Minister, it is not you who have control over this body, it is proof of its independence. It is indeed mandatory that it be another minister, in connection with this Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (SSICF). This is an important issue for monitoring and, above all, to prevent it from happening again. I recall that this investigative body is also responsible for making recommendations. From this point of view, Minister, I would like us to be able to make the link with the European bodies on 28 June. These European bodies followed what happened in Buizingen, as well as the fatal accident in Switzerland some time ago. The links between these investigations are very important. In its recent report on the review of SNCB's and Infrabel's management contracts, the Court of Auditors points out that in 2013, SNCB's obligation to draw up an action plan on the safety culture had not been respected despite the priority given to this aspect after the Buizingen accident. In these cases, the Court of Auditors meets with the operator in question. SNCB had then invoked shortcomings in the head of the famous SSICF and had announced that it had entrusted a consultant with the task of carrying out the initial measure. To date – and we will have an opportunity to discuss it again on 28 June – SNCB has still not developed this action plan. In her response, she acknowledged this but indicated that she had worked actively in-house and that a detailed schedule was being established for a gradual introduction of the project. I shall return to this point stressed by the Court of Auditors. Various speakers spoke in this commission on the implementation of the TBL1+ and the famous 99%. We have been surprised by the language elements used several times by Infrabel's CEO in his communication. It is well known that the solution of the TBL1+ is transitory, with the aim of moving towards a more efficient system, it is no longer driving aid, but a more efficient system. We know where we're going; we've got the dates. On the other hand, this element of language disturbs us all somewhat. For my part, I had in mind 99 comma something. But it is necessary to examine precisely what the terms "certain signals" or "essential signals" mean. There is a distinction to be made between the so-called essential and the most sensitive signals in terms of safety. Some colleagues have intervened to say that the criteria would take account of the North-Midi junction, the switches, the curves or other elements that I personally do not know. I think we need answers. Today, we need clarification. It is only with these clarifications that we may or may not be surprised, as Mr. Van den Bergh, that today, from the very admission of Infrabel, there are 7,500 signals equipped with TBL1+ of the 10,700 that the railway network counts. With this element, one wonders where are the famous 99% of installed signals. There is an explanation for the criteria and the evaluation. Then, Minister, will come other questions such as: Is it useful or not to consider continuing the work and making other investments? It's a choice we'll have to make. We will each assume our responsibilities after hearing the explanations. We will also have to study Mr. Raskin's assertions. I don't know the files that precisely. Mr. Raskin goes very well in his statements! It seems to me important and interesting to receive more precise elements. Yes or no, had any decisions been made to install the system on this line? Yes or no, have there been any delays? If so, why? All this is very important. In short, Madam President, I think it was important to be able to start thinking today because it already exists, not on the real, precise causes of this tragedy. We'll wait for the investigation. I would point out that it will be important to have recommendations from the investigative body. We'll have to listen to the SNCB. I would remind you that the TBL1+ must be installed in rolling stock and infrastructure. Finally, Infrabel must be able to explain to us its analysis grid in relation to the essential points of the network. Mr. Geerts asked the question of overrunning the red light. I did not escape the need to distinguish between the overall number of signal exceedances. He quoted the number, but there is also the distinction between signs considered important and others. I have a supplementary question. Should we consider that a secondary signal cannot become more important at some point and so indicate a danger? I'm not an engineer, but I have the impression that we need to think about this raw data that we get released in the form of statistics like the 99% case. This thought seems necessary to me. Other colleagues have pointed out this with great dignity. The aim is to have a culture of safety. It is important that the Committee on Infrastructure can deal with these issues without unnecessary controversy. In any case, there is a need for a debate on rail safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u15	Madam President, first of all, my group naturally associates itself with the tribute you paid to the victims, their families, their loved ones and to the relief services. I would also like to highlight the immense work of the latter, as well as the work of the neighbourhood and the railwaymen who have deployed on the scene. This tragedy affects me all the more as I live near the accident site. Moreover, the person who has in his entourage people who frequent these lines daily has a more special thought for all. I understand that the time of mourning and the criminal investigation involve a great reserve in the transmission of information. However, in order to appease the torment of families and allow them to mourn, answers must be given to them. If we organise this exchange of views today, it is also to obtain answers that do not fall within the scope of the survey. Let us acknowledge that, since the publication of certain information last night, there have been many questions. And I have heard some colleagues talk about the way Infrabel communicates. I don't want to argue at all, but I tried to look for this information. This information is the equipment of the network of the TBL1+ system. How much is it in terms of coverage? I first heard 99.9% and then realized that this was the rate of effectiveness. What does that mean? It is then understood, but the first information the citizen or user hears is that a colossal work has been undertaken. The second figure I found comes from Infrabel's 2015 security report. This report speaks of 80% coverage. The third figure comes from the assessment of the Buizingen follow-up carried out last year in April 2015, on which you proposed to advance the meeting to be held on 28 June. This is a parliamentary report. In this report, it is stated that at the end of 2014, 94% of the network was located. Another figure from Infrabel has been reported by the press, according to which it is 70%. I therefore confess that we need to clarify these figures and how the TBL1+ coverage rate is calculated, and this is not related to the investigation. Knowing the information that is being provided, and I do not think it is part of the investigation, was the last signal passed by the train colliding with the passenger train equipped with the TBL1+ or not? I do not think that these elements are part of the investigation, considering that it is the equipment of the network, for which we are entitled to obtain this information. This information is one of many. I am not making an absolute causal link or saying that if the last signal had been equipped, this accident would not have occurred. I'm just saying, quite naively, I heard 99.9%. When I heard that the last signal on line 125 before the collision, up to Hermalle-sous-Huy was not equipped, I really thought it was the fault step by step, with the 0.1%. But it appears that this is not the case, since the different figures given are all official figures. These are not figures from rumours, nor even figures that I have been fishing in the press. These are all figures communicated in one way or another by Infrabel. These are figures found here in the House, in a report of security activities and figures that were released this noon from Infrabel and not figures imagined by journalists. Why is this line not equipped? Others said it before me, this line is very popular. It is a line of the Walloon dorsal borrowed by many users. While there was another accident on this line a few years ago, why isn't it fully equipped with the TBL1+? I urge the government, the minister who will ask Infrabel, to provide us with accurate mapping of areas not covered by the TBL1+, while knowing that what is waiting for us is the ETCS. I would like to take this opportunity to ask another question about the latter system. We are talking about a coverage of 19%; the figure seems less questionable, in any case in the reports that I have been able to examine. Minister, could we have the information for the ETCS and its coverage on the territory? We will then have a full review of the entire security system that was planned by the Buizingen Commission. Infrabel's safety report shows 92 irregular crossings of main-track signals. This is an increase compared to 2014, at 39%. It's not nothing. I have made a good distinction between crossings that create major incidents and others that are less so. However, 92 crossings represent an increase, while the network is more effectively covered by the TBL1+. We are therefore entitled to ask ourselves questions. I would like to know whether in the 92 crossings we find the signal in question, which would not be equipped with the TBL1+. I'm waiting to know if this signal was equipped or not. More broadly, we know that the efforts requested by the government from SNCB, and in particular Infrabel, are in the order of one billion. Investment is expected to be reduced by one billion between 2014 and 2019. If security budgets have not decreased, I wonder how the government will be able to meet the commitments of the Buizingen Commission for the installation of ETCS on the entire network in 2021, given this decision to reduce investments by one billion. There are two major ETCS positions: cabin concentration and ETCS, and one does not work without the other. How are we going to implement your decision to cut by one billion, along with the Buizingen Committee's recommendations on security? Without wishing to argue, this is a legitimate question when one knows the very important security costs. Can you tell us what your investment choices are going to be? These points do not impinge on the survey, but family mourning will also ease thanks to the answers to some questions. Rather than allowing false information or partial information to flow, I think you are able to provide us with a number of answers and appease the families who are in distress and who are wondering about the circumstances of this tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u16	Madam President, I will associate myself with what colleagues have been able to say about the shock and the pain of such an accident, each time with the memory of previous accidents. I remember Aiseau-Presles, Pécrot, Buizingen. At each accident, it is hoped that it will be the last and that the necessary recommendations and action will be taken to ensure that this does not happen again. And unfortunately, these accidents are repeated. I think that, despite the painful circumstances, we can, and even we must, ask ourselves questions. The first question that comes to mind, in view of what appeared in the press, is the TBL1 braking mechanism, since we learn that – on the conditional – there would have been no TBL1 in the drama. Minister, I suppose you can answer that question without really entering into the secrecy of the investigation. That's a first point. This question leads to others. Normally, the TBL1 was to be carried out in 2015 on this section. Do you confirm that it was planned by this deadline? The logical follow-up to this question: why has this not been achieved? Is the cause budgetary or, as colleagues have mentioned, other causes such as delays in work, whatever the reason? Compared to this, the issue of the percentage coverage of TBL1 is quite challenging. We received a Powerpoint document in March 2015 that followed up on the recommendations of the Special Committee on Rail Safety. A coverage rate for the TBL1 of 99.9% was actually indicated. However, Infrabel's report, for the same period at the end of 2015, shows 80%. This waltz of numbers deserves clarification. We need to know where we really are in TBL1 and how we need to take into account the percentages expressed. It's true that 99.9% is a mess. Just how such a percentage can be expressed is mischievous. It is a way of saying: everything is covered, not everything, there is still a small part that is not. What's clear is that it's either 100% or there's a problem. I learn that after three days without a train due to social movements, there is a communication problem at rail level and there is a risk that cabins will not be able to determine whether a train is operating. I'm told an empty train is needed to improve the connection. Has this been done? I am also intrigued by the fact that a convoy of goods is involved in the accident. We do not yet know what the cause is. For the time being, there is a tendency to argue that it is the passenger train that was not where it was supposed to be. In any case, looking at accident statistics, the number of accidents in the last 16 years has doubled for passenger trains. This is quite worrying, especially when mechanisms such as TBL1 are put in place. Above all, the number of accidents involving freight trains has increased tenfold. This raises questions about rail safety in general, but more specifically about freight safety. Given that this activity has been liberalised, I cannot help but wonder whether there is a cause and effect link between the liberalisation of rail for freight and the concomitant existence of several companies. In addition, and this is a reality, Minister, the requirements are lower for these private railway companies responsible for the transportation of goods. It is therefore an aspect that will have to be seriously examined, regardless of the involvement of the freight train in this accident. I also want to mention the important role played by the train attendant in the moments that followed the accident. We know he played a very important role. I find here an additional argument against the one-man option because. The role of the attendant is multiple and important. This reinforces me in this conviction. You refuse, Minister, to make a link between productivity, austerity, what I still know, and security. You don't want to address the issue, but you still do it by pushing the thing away. We are not going to draw conclusions on the basis of an accident that has not yet taken place, but we must not be a great analyst to see that from the moment when the increase in productivity consists essentially, although not exclusively, of doing more with fewer staff, there are consequences. We're talking about 6,000 fewer railway workers in the very short term. It is clear that this will not help improve safety. Anyone can deduce it. When I learn that, already at this time, of course outside the regulations, in a signal booth, someone works 48 hours in a row, minister, I think that there are obvious problems and that, if we withdraw another 6,000 railway workers in the future, unfortunately, we will not have learned the right lessons from these accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u17	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to summarize my remarks. It is not a question, minister, of amalgamating, making shortcuts, or drawing hasty conclusions in committee. It's not about doing it for you either, between productivity and safety. You have put only one element forward, which has not been mentioned by anyone. It is not a question of eliminating certain elements, such as productivity and security, today. The four investigations you mentioned will tell us more. Things have been said, sometimes in an accusatory tone, in relation to the numbers of follow-up reports by committees or the Court of Auditors which were announced by Infrabel. Mr Minister, all of my colleagues are calling for the figures to be clear because the citizens need to know. These inaccuracies are not acceptable when it comes to rail accidents. I will relay the request of the majority of the members of this commission, namely the hearing of the CEO of Infrabel about the actual implementation of the TBL1+ system on signals and rolling stock. It will therefore also be necessary to hear the CEO of SNCB since a freight train is involved in the accident and your predecessor delayed, by a royal order of 2015, the equipment of the freight trains. There is therefore a question about this as well. We talked a lot about the signals. Minister, it is clear that the numbers of signal exceedances are on the rise. I don't know if it's due to the fact that they're being reported more or if there's a real increase. This issue will have to be discussed on 28 June, where we will have a detailed presentation on signal exceedances. On the other hand, I was also surprised by the absence of Mr Borsus. After Buizingen, we wanted the establishment of an independent investigative body - made compulsory by Europe - and placed under a different umbrella than that of the Minister of SNCB and Infrabel. It would have been normal for him to be present, even if he could only tell us that the investigation is under way. He must also be present at our hearings, particularly of the government, on accidents. If I may, I will remind him of this by mail. Of course, he will be present at a future hearing. That's indispensable. He's got the tutelage. His presence is important. For the rest, we will organize the work after hearing the minister's response. Minister, the commission does not want to harm the investigation. Questions arise from data provided to the Commission. All of this seems to be confusing today, to say the least.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u18	Madam Chair, could we suspend the meeting for a few minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u19	Certainly, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u20	Colleagues, we will immediately give the floor to the minister for initial answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the calm, laid and measured tone with which you spoke. I think that the time is more conducive to gathering and questioning in a comprehensive manner than to other considerations. I really want to thank you for that. Following the work of the Buizingen Commission, which I chaired and which was then chaired by Mr David Geerts, 109 recommendations were made and a master plan was drawn up by both companies. This masterplan was accompanied by the necessary amounts for the infrastructure and rolling stock equipment. The resources have been budgeted. Of course, efforts have been requested from the companies, the SNCB group. I think about it in a group, because I think about it. The user only has to do with who manages the rails, who manages the train. What matters to him is being driven from one point to another. But I can confirm that the total amount reserved, which is EUR 3.7 billion, will not suffer any reduction in appropriations. That will be the case. The masterplan foresees an evolution towards the full ETCS from 2023 in several stages. Your committee follows up on the 109 recommendations. Regularly, you question management. I think most of the questions you're asking me must be to the managers when they come back to you on June 28, unless you advance the date. Some of the questions of detail and perhaps of interpretation and communication that you have raised should be raised at this level. It should be noted that on Monday I sent a letter to the two companies asking them to take stock of the progress that has been made, of the various steps that have yet to be taken and of the progress made in the equipment. Maybe I'll ask them some more questions. Following the many questions you have asked, I think I will be very interested in hearing your questions and the answers that will be given to them on 28 June, because I also have questions. You check the follow-up of the 109 recommendations of the masterplan every six months. We must, of course, see what is happening. I reminded you that the security budget was EUR 3.7 billion. How does it decompose? More or less 2 billion for infrastructure and the balance for rolling stock. Mr. Raskin raised an issue that I had never heard of. Does this have an influence on the proper execution? Honestly, I'm not gonna answer you if I don't know. I would like to ask myself, but this is a question to go back to the SNCB group. Two or three parliamentarians asked me if there were TBL1. Right now, I don't know. When I went there, I heard the D.A., who informed me that the investigators were coming. He had equipment sealed. Then he told me: "I am the only receptacle of the elements in connection with the investigation. It is out of the question that anyone should communicate on this matter." So I am not going to answer you today on these aspects, so as not to harm the investigation. All the investigative bodies have been in place since that night or very early the next morning. Mr Borsus has informed that he will not be with us. He supervises the SSICF (Railway Safety and Interoperability Service). If he had come, he would have told you that the investigation was under way. You can invite him, but we are facing difficulties. I can, of course, tell you about SNCB and the plans. For the Buizingen accident committee, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the prosecution has not yet closed the case or presented the conclusions for various reasons. This was announced earlier, but be it! This was not the case, in particular, because of a change of investigating judge. On the other hand, I would remind you that the SSICF report on the Buizingen accident has been known since 2012. This report does not define responsibilities, but defines facts: what the committee has found, point. With regard to the debate on signal overruns, I have answered questions from members of the committee on the number of overruns. There is also the origin of these exceedances, why do we see the increase in these exceedances of signals? I have heard these questions. What's going on? Is it a question of training, of culture? After Buizingen, did the device become less effective? Has awareness gone away? Safety is at the top of the recommendations to SNCB personnel. Is there enough training, attention? We asked the operators about these issues. As far as the methods of monitoring victims are concerned, I would like to submit a concrete case to you. When we had the opportunity to visit our Swiss colleagues to study the implementation of the pendulum train, we were accompanied by the number 2 Virgin Group, which currently operates the London-Glasgow line. They had been confronted with an accident that had caused a hundred injuries. To give empathy, to ensure a link and not to leave the victims alone in their efforts, they had, on a voluntary basis, made an appeal within the company asking who wished to be the single relay and single door for each victim. It wasn't a victim service; it was an agent for a victim. I suggest it be done at home. Of course, these people will not be able to answer questions related to the development of the judicial file, etc., but I hope that the communication will be centralized and that all the steps can be carried out centrally with a team of people whose one and only one will be the referent of a single victim. For example, if there are nine injured victims and three deceased, 12 persons are designated as relays for the twelve victims. Mr Cheron, the SSICF conducts a completely independent investigation, so independent that it submits the findings within different time limits from the judicial deadline. As for the Court of Auditors, I believe that the work of the Buizingen Committee of Inquiry has shown that the perception of the safety elements is not identical throughout the company. This safety culture, which is a priority of the executive committees, does not have the same accents everywhere. The cause of the accident is not known here. We don't know the sequence of the accident. It is therefore difficult to have a reaction from the moment the cause is not immediately known. Regarding the implementation of the TBL1, languages seem different. This is 99.9% for some, but on the other hand, it is said that not all signals are covered. This precision will be at the heart of the encounter, as will the understanding of the graph. I've consulted your auditions and your work. I saw that curve. And then, on the other hand, it is said that a number of signals are not equipped. These elements must therefore be clarified. Honestly, I don't know, Mrs. Matz, if we have a map. I've already seen the mapping of today's ETCS network, 19%. I believe that has already been shown to you. We know the lines but from there to give you details about a particular signal... I imagine that when the ETCS is installed, it's on the entire line. I was asked if savings affected security and the master plan. On the master plan, no! 3.7 million are planned and there they are! Measures are required to improve productivity. It's obvious we're not going to remove ten Traffic Control controllers, for example. The debate is not about this. I will not go back to the elements that led to the strike. I would point out, however, that the productivity gains that were requested, and for which the self-sufficiency group was left to find them, were on days off and not on elements related to operational activity. I said it and it will be translated into management contracts, there is a need to improve governance. In particular, my remarks concerned the sharing of identical values. And if we want to share the values, the person in an office must have the same safety awareness to ensure that the train driver who is in a signalling station. I am talking about sharing values because we need to modernise and reorient governance. When the Buizingen report states that culture must be developed within the company, it is not a vague culture; it is a question of sharing identical values, whether it be security or other elements. This seems to me to be at the heart of the concern that we all need, the company's staff, the members of the committee or, in any case, me as the minister in charge of this sector. Mr. Van Hees, you say that some people work 48 hours in a cabin. I would like you to tell me where this is going – not the name of the person – because it goes against all the regulations. Either you throw this into the cantonade – you like provocation, I tell you nicely – or it's reality. In this case, it is in violation of all the provisions, it is forbidden! I come to the role of the attendant. As with others, the attendant came to the aid of all the people who were on the train. He also testified operationally to certain things. I draw your attention to two elements. I would like to stress and conclude on this. First, you have raised some questions, sometimes in connection with verifiable statements or not on the investigation. I don't think anyone today knows or can't answer you. I don't have anything to answer. Then, the big questions that are yours are also ours. We will be able to obtain some answers at the next meeting with Mr Cornu and Mr Lallemand. Knowing that the freight train is a B Logistics train does not change anything. The train was almost at the stop. I hope that together you can see the leaders and take stock, as you were supposed to do on the 28th. I don't know if you're going to move this meeting forward. As far as I am concerned, I do not want to go into the content or your agenda, but I see no problem with you holding your meeting as soon as possible. I can't go any further. I have no concrete elements to give you. I don't have any information on the accident itself that would allow me to tell you more. You will have answers to most of your questions when you see the company's managers. I strongly reiterate that there are no savings on the security masterplan as it has been developed. I would also like to say that we held a Council of Transport Ministers of the European Union yesterday. The development of the ETCS standard is of course important. At a forthcoming meeting on ERTMS and ETCS, to be held in Rotterdam, we will try to find a single standard. What is happening is paradoxical. ETCS is a European demand for a very high level of security. This brings ground and visual signs and signals to a permanent train control system by means of on-board signs and signals on the train. The difficulty we face is the border effects. This is paradoxical at a time when a project is developed and supported by the European Union, well ahead of all other systems technologically. In fact, different countries choose different ETCS models in terms of software. If France has the E 2.3 software base and we have the E 2.4 software base, our systems are not legible at the border. While we are trying to achieve a kind of single European network and we have requests for cross-border lines, at the same time we are creating species of bottlenecks that are somewhat complicated. The request made to the Commission, and we will devote much of our meeting to it, is to set up the black box with a standard to which everyone must be able to connect in order to move from one country to another. You'll tell me that it doesn't have much to see, but I'll tell you the opposite. If we are talking about Thalys Wallon, today no high-speed trains are certified to cross between Auvelais and Namur. To pass it, we would have to take a royal order suspending any security system on the line. I think neither the government nor I will propose to the King to sign a royal decree suspending the entire security process over such a distance. Even over 300 meters, it's unthinkable. We are looking for other technical solutions. So far, it's a little complicated. This is obviously not a reason for not finding a solution. We're looking for some. We meet with the ministers on Friday. This point will be discussed with the Walloon Minister in order to find a solution that can be validated technically before further reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u22	Minister, thank you. As you said, as part of our committee's work, we will hear very quickly from the two CEOs on the fundamental issues that have been raised by colleagues about the state of safety and its impact on infrastructure and rolling stock. Colleagues, do any of you wish to reply at this stage? Minister, you should know that this is just the beginning of our work, since all questions are still open and require answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u23	Madam President, I will be brief. Minister, contrary to what you say, our questions about the possible installation of the TBL1+ are not within the scope of the investigation. Normally, you have the ability to request information from Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u24	We're going to do it ourselves, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u25	I agree, but the minister in charge benefits from a way of access that is a little easier than ours. You say you asked for this information by sending letters to Infrabel on Monday. I don't understand you haven't gotten them yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u26	I didn't ask for anything, since the King's attorney was very firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u27	But this is not information about the investigation!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u28	Wait! We asked Infrabel and SNCB to accurately communicate the physical condition of the entire network.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u29	That sounds like the b.a.-ba. In the light of their various statements, I believe that these replies could have included some very unreliable figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u30	That was before the statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u31	Please, Mrs. Matz! We'll get Infrabel's representatives here. It'll be so much easier to interview them. I understand your comment that a signal box is equipped or not. However, if the minister is unable to answer us today...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u32	I understand he won't answer me. I regret that, because these are not elements that are part of the investigation. They have nothing to do with her. Minister, I am not asking you whether the train was driving at such speed. These issues are within the scope of the investigation, being specifically related to the collision that took place. I asked you for elements of an objective nature, along with others, by the way. I can't tell you that I feel mixed when I get out of here. An exchange of views is organised, but in fact we do not receive any response, not on the survey, but in general, while this exchange of views has been scheduled since Monday. Perhaps there was a way to collate a number of data with Infrabel, without hindering the investigation and without falling into controversy. I do not hide my disappointment with your answers. "I asked Infrabel if we could possibly dispose of the elements"; you are the minister in charge of Infrabel, sir. I think you have a right to demand this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u33	I thank the minister for his answers, in any case for the answers he gave. I think, Madam Chair, that's not really a reply to the minister. We understood that a meeting would be held to take stock. It is natural that the whole network of what is known as the SNCB-Infrabel Group should be dealt with in the Committee on Infrastructure. It is important to prepare this meeting well. I stress the role of the appropriate minister in relation to Infrabel and SNCB. Madam Chair, as Chair of this Commission, you can speak to the CEOs. All the elements of this meeting were rightly requested by parliamentarians. This is rare enough to be stressed, but it came from almost all groups. We have a request for clarification. We understand that there is an incomprehension on the communication of the famous 99% related to TBL1+; I think that if no one understood, it would be fooling themselves. We understand that there are some clarifications to be made here. The elements must be available even before we meet. We're not going to do this live. I count heavily on your president, on what the minister can get from the operators. We must prepare this meeting to be useful for all lines, devices and networks, in the name of security. It is much more important than entering into today's polemics on particular subjects. That is what must be at our disposal today. We understood that there was an ambiguity in understanding the rate of implementation of TBL1+. I would point out, however, that this is a driving aid and not a 100% safety measure. We have to make that clear. Our objective must be to strive for the greatest efficiency for the benefit of all, as quickly as possible and with the means available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u34	In response to Mr. Cheron, we have provided a full report as well as the questions. It will therefore be available very quickly. As you have pointed out, there are a number of questions and, above all, a number of imprecisions based on the figures given in this Parliament or in other reports. I propose that you write to the two Chief Executive Officers (CEO) on behalf of the committee, to present them with a series of points that we have raised, asking them to answer us in advance or to be prepared to answer them precisely during their visit. We will ensure that they are received as soon as possible in our committee. My response to your request is therefore positive. Mr Minister, if any documents come to you, since you have also questioned the two companies, it would be welcome if you would communicate all the elements to the committee as part of the debate that we will have with the CEOs very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u35	Madam President, I would like to conclude on a positive note. The minister told us about his meeting in Switzerland. The idea of assigning an agent per victim or family of victim is an excellent proposition that would bring some humanity to these situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u36	A study trip to Switzerland is scheduled for October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u37	Mr Minister, I agree with you at least on one thing: you have few answers to give us! I understand the circumstances. With regard to the TBL1, it seems to me that the decision to equip the entire network follows Buizingen's recommendations and that the deadline was 31 December 2015. This means that at the end of December 2015, 100% TBL1 coverage was required. If it turns out that this accident is due, at least in the tree of causes, to a problem of TBL1, it would be terrible to have to find that the failure to comply with the deadline after the Buizingen incident bears a share of responsibility! We are not going to argue about productivity, but I urge you, Minister, not to minimize the safety consequences of a 20% increase in productivity. As for the 48 hours in the signal booth, you asked me if I had identified the cabin. I don't know her. The railwayman who isn't anyone told me about it on Fridays. I won't tell you who or where.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u38	Mr Van Hees, either you have specific information or you don't have one. If your information is accurate, tell the minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u39	The minister asked me a question; I answer him. Usually it's the other way around! That thing hit me because I was told last Friday. As a last resort, I replied that, under these conditions, I was beginning to hesitate to take the train. Two days later the accident occurred in Saint-Georges.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u40	Mr Van Hees, even if the circumstances do not lend themselves to this, are you sure that it was not a striker who stayed forty-eight hours in front of the post?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u41	Minister, you said that this commission was respectful of the time and duty of inquiry. I would ask you to show such respect to the railwaymen, including those on strike. This requirement is valid on both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u42	Madam President, it was a joke. Believe me, ever since I was a minister, everyone knows that I'm very available to meet citizens. On Saturday morning, I go to my commune to see my admins. For the moment, I'm busy all my Saturdays chatting with railwaymen who come to explain their experiences to me. I came from a village where 350 out of every 2,000 people worked on railways. I think that is also what has positively contaminated me and convinced me of the interest that this sector could represent for all. For your meeting, I may ask those who have been part of it to reread and refresh your memory by reading the committee's report. It's tedious, but it's of high quality. That's not because I started the work, as the committee worked much longer after I left. I think you need to get back into it before your work session. That's a suggestion I'm making. You will see all the components, all the elements on which we can act in terms of security. It's not just technology. There is culture, the worker's well-being in the workplace, initial training, continuing training. It seems to me important to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic440x.u43	For those who do not, the secretariat will send the link of the Buizingen Commission's report which is obviously still on the site.
