ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u1	The meeting was opened at 2.20 p.m. and chaired by Siegfried Bracke. The meeting was called to order at 2.20 p.m. and chaired by Mr. Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u2	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. They shall be included on the website of the Chamber and in the Annex to the integral report of this meeting. A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the annex to the full record of this sitting. At the opening of the meeting, the Minister of the Federal Government: Minister of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: Charles Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u4	Peter Dedecker, Renate Hufkens, Vanessa Matz, for health reasons/ for health reasons; Monica De Coninck, with shipment abroad / on a mission abroad. Federale regering / Federal government: Didier Reynders, with consignment of foreign (Sommet de la Francophonie) / on mission abroad (Sommet de la Francophonie) François Bellot, foreign / abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking up the point where we left it yesterday, namely when Mr Bonte asked for the draft law on the processing of passenger data to be referred back to the Committee on the Interior. There were thoroughly different views on this last night. We had a debate on referral back to committee. I do not want to reopen this debate, but we must make a decision. I now turn to Mr. Bonte. I would like to address Mr Bonte, who will explain what he is talking about as an explanation of vote and framework, because the debate was held yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u6	Mr President, I would like to repeat, for the sake of clarity, also for those Members who were not present yesterday, which is exactly what we are talking about. In November 2015, an important draft law on passenger data processing was announced by the government as one of the 18 urgent measures following the November attacks. What is particularly bizarre is that this bill was distributed by the government on 10 October, which was submitted to Parliament on 3 October in which the urgency was asked and obtained. The draft law then passed through the committee at an incredible rate, on 21 October at first reading and on 10 November at second reading. At that time, several Members suggested that hearings should be held in the spirit of the processing of all these measures and that opposition and majority groups should work together to find the way for the compromise. Because this was a delicate and ambitious bill, the opposition and others have called for hearings. This was denied. The committee continued its work and adopted a second reading. That is the text that is now before us. A few days after the end of the debate, and also yesterday evening here in plenary, a colleague of the majority, Mr Yüksel, mentioned an opinion from the European Commission on the draft. That advice was given on the explicit question put by the government and in particular by the Minister for the Interior. On 23 September 2016, the Minister for the Interior addressed the question to the European Commission to shed light on the draft. After yesterday's debate, requesting the opinion of the European Commission, I was indeed given the letter yesterday evening, a letter addressed to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Jambon, signed by Violetta Bulc, responsible for Transport and Transport in Europe, by Dimitri Avramopoulos, responsible for Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship and by Mr Julian King, responsible for Security within the European Union. That opinion was received, according to the date stamp I read on the letter, on 28 October 2016, in full discussion of the draft. The content of that letter is particularly critical of the design, especially for the large extension to rail transport, buses and other means. It is a very critical analysis by the three European Commissioners who even point out that there is a study and that a decision-making agenda has also been agreed within the European Union. As far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this is a step too far. If Parliament is considering a draft, it should be able to examine all the opinions, including those which do not come out well with the majority, particularly here the opinion of the European Commission. That is why, Mr President, my request to be able to discuss this opinion on the substance and, on that basis, to judge whether my party supports this draft or not. Hence the logical question, Mr President, to refer the document and the opinion with the present draft back to committee. In contrast to what you are suggesting, Mr President, it is not the Internal Affairs Commission that has worked on this, but the Anti-Terrorism Committee. The coincidence is that we are meeting tomorrow with the Counter-Terrorism Committee. My question is clear, in the interests of good legislation and transparent decision-making, to send the dossier to tomorrow's committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we were not in an effective number of votes on the proposal, I gave Mr Bonte a little more time to frame it. If there are any Members who still wish to speak on the proposal, I consider that to be an explanation of vote which is really limited to two minutes and no longer. If it's all right with you, here's what I want to do. Mr Crusnière, you will have the floor in a few moments. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore vote on a request to amend the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u8	Mr President, I also wanted to thank you for sending the Commission's letter, which we received immediately after yesterday's sitting. It's a non-negligible mail, contrary to what they tried to make us believe yesterday. It is still signed by three Commissioners who express their concerns. Three Commissioners who are speaking to Belgium, it is really not annoyed. This is a strong signal from the Commission, which deserves to be heard. We must be able to hear them and listen to them before our Parliament can take a stand. I do not want to hear what we heard yesterday, that we would only do that to delay the debate, not to take a stand. That's not the case. I want to be very firm about this. The fight against terrorism, in all its aspects, is a priority for my group. It must be for all parliamentarians, but it cannot be done in any way and not at any price. We need relevant and effective measures that protect our citizens, not only in terms of their security, but also in terms of their individual rights and freedoms. We will support all measures in this direction. Here we are not convinced, nor the Commission, rightly, because the text goes far beyond what the directives propose. I therefore believe that the debate should be postponed in committee so that we have all our appeasements. We're not in an emergency. We can take a few days to discuss it. I will support my colleague Jambon's request... I mean Hans Bonte so that we can have a calm debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, PNR is a new European measure in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. We discussed a framework law in committee. The next item is the debate on this important law, Mr Bonte, in the fight against terrorism. The letter from three Commissioners of the European Commission is an important element. That letter reached me a few days ago after the end of the debates. I have communicated on this and expressed the Commission's concerns. If you have read the letter correctly, you will find that the European Commissioners are particularly interested in the implementation of this framework law on international rail, bus and boat transport. You know that we will discuss these matters further and clarify them in royal decrees. The letter from the European Commission does not prejudice that at all, Mr President. I would therefore suggest that we vote on this so that we can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u10	Mr President, like Mr Crusnière, we support Minister Jambon. We had a good discussion on this yesterday. I do not believe that it can be the intention to repeat this discussion in full. I also believe that we should not anticipate the substantive discussion now. I hope it will be discussed later. In our committee there have been some concerns expressed by fellow Members about administrative inconvenience, cost, privacy and competitiveness. Let all of these be things which are sensitive to us and which we too believe should be dealt with through the necessary measures. I believe that Minister Jambon has always given a good, detailed and substantive answer to the questions, which at least reassures us. Moreover, as Mr Yüksel said, this is a framework law. It is intended that its elaboration will be included in royal decisions, and that the specific concerns raised by both colleagues who have followed the substantive discussion here and by fellow Members in committee will first be discussed with the sector. There is now a framework law with which Belgium takes the lead in tackling terror. Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u11	Mr President, we have had excellent discussions in the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism under the chairmanship of Mr Metsu. The minister has given us the honour of his presence on two occasions, since I recall that there is a second reading of this bill. Moreover, it was made clear in the committee, since this is clearly the problem raised by the three European Commissioners, that the extension to other means than the air would be the subject of consultation, in particular with the railway companies of the neighbouring countries, and that, therefore, the work would be done by royal decrees. I know the Minister of the Interior well enough to say that he is concerned about the respect of Parliament and that he will also report on developments in this matter. Frankly, I'm not worried about that. I recall that the majority heard the vote of the opposition and twice voted on the draft in question. So it seems to me that we can now actually proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can only repeat what we said in committee, namely that we are cool lovers of this bill. You are certainly not surprised by the fact that our privacy and some other fundamental fundamental rights need to be effectively monitored in the best possible way. The same goes, of course, for our physical integrity. That is the reason, when one plans certain containments, to do so considered and proportionate and to provide a legal basis. We have confidence in this government and in the Minister responsible. That is why we will adopt this framework law. The Minister assured us that he would consult with the sectors so that there would be no unintended economic consequences and that no disproportionate measures would be taken which had not been agreed at European level. We trust the government and the minister, and that is why we will approve this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text that is being discussed here concerns the indiscriminate collection of data from all Belgians, from several tens of millions of passengers. The European Commission took five years, from February 2011 to May 2016, to draft the directive to be transposed by this law. Parliament may take five weeks to vote on the law transposing it. Five weeks, that is to say, the time to analyse easily the letter sent to the Minister of the Interior by the three European Commissioners, who are concerned about the extension of this massive collection of data to other means of transport than the aircraft. That is why we support Mr Bonte's referral to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u14	Mr. Chairman, as you know, we voted in favour of this bill in committee. However, today we have elements that were not known at the time of the debate. These elements were transmitted by three Commissioners from different political families. It is therefore not in any way a political position of the opposition. In doing so, it is important, in our view, to reconsider this sensitive matter in the light of the letter sent to us. Indeed, this is about finding the right balance between, on the one hand, the fight against terrorism and, on the other, the issues of privacy. If this dossier is not reviewed, it will, for the vast majority of parliamentarians in this House, be to vote without having read all the elements of the dossier, which I do not think is credible and raises a number of questions. I therefore call on the majority to go beyond questions of majority and opposition and to join us so that we can refer this matter back, without wasting time and without wasting time, in committee so that it can be discussed in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u15	Mr President, I also consider that the problem is so sensitive and delicate that we are not a few weeks away from taking a joint decision in this Parliament. Indeed, a further examination of this dossier in committee is a matter of pure common sense, which is why I will vote for the referral back to committee as requested by our colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u16	Mr President, at the moment all the newspapers are full of this example of hasty legislation. It would therefore be normal for the majority to understand that this cannot be repeated. It would be a very good thing for the committee to consider the text, especially when I hear that the committee meets tomorrow. It can actually happen pretty fast. In the light of what we have read in the newspapers over the past few weeks, it would actually be an appropriate attitude of Parliament to stop acting hastily, just because a minister or someone else is asking for it. We therefore support the reference to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u17	Mr President, I also believe that this text should not be discussed in haste; it is too important a matter. There is not only the question of the three European Commissioners who are critical of this text. I will also add the perplexity of government members, such as the Minister of Mobility. I had the opportunity to ask him an oral question on the subject and he found that he had been forced into the government. That is, in any case, what I perceived from his answer. I therefore believe that this is the kind of element that deserves to be examined by the committee in a calm and thorough manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u18	Mr Bonte, you will be the last to speak for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u19	Mr President, I repeat what I said yesterday. I've been in the Chamber for over 20 years, and I've been in the majority and in the opposition, in harder and easier times. The essence of this matter is respect for Parliament. I do not agree with you that you should ask for a vote now. I heard the speech by Mr Yüksel, who said that he was informed of the European Commission's opinion after the committee debates were closed; it was good for him. But I also heard other statements. I heard Mrs. Van Cauter say she's a cool lover. It wants to ensure that the proportionality of the measure is monitored in the future. Well, that is exactly the essence of the European Commission's remark, Prime Minister. The extension, not only to aircraft passenger data, but also to trains and others, is disproportionate. The new information, namely the European Commission's opinion, was on the table of the Minister responsible. I've been reading the report. However, the Minister responsible did not mention the European Commission's opinion, even when there were comments on proportionality. After the vote, however, we had to establish that there was an opinion. I am now addressing you explicitly, Mr President. Respect for this institution would be to submit that important new element to a discussion in committee. Let us discuss this in committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u20	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the change of agenda requested by Mr Bonte. I suggest we sit and vote. (Protests) We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the name. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 49 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total The question of changing the agenda has been rejected. The request to amend the agenda is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u21	Mr President, we have a concern about topical issues. A question for the Prime Minister was tabled by my colleague Ahmed Laaouej. This issue concerns fiscal federalism linked to the implementation of the Sixth State Reform. The Prime Minister was among the negotiators, I was also there. There is a problem with the implementation of the sixth reform. A letter from the Ministers-Presidents was sent to the Prime Minister. The matter must come to a consensus committee, so it is clear that it concerns the government as a whole, and in particular the Prime Minister, who must be the guarantor of federal loyalty. However, it would appear that you have, at the Prime Minister's request, agreed that this issue should move towards the Minister of Finance. That's not right at all! It is really the Prime Minister who is being questioned, the Prime Minister who is the chair of the consultation committee and the guarantor of federal loyalty. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to reply to Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u22	Mrs Onkelinx, you will not blame me for replying in Dutch. Through the services of the Chamber, I have been informed of the objections raised by Mr Laaouej. I have thought about this and I have come to the conclusion that it is not because the Consultative Committee has to take a decision on a particular issue, that the Minister responsible is losing his powers. The same applies here as to any dossier that comes in the Council of Ministers, for which the Prime Minister is indeed the ultimate responsibility. However, the fact that a dossier is discussed in the Council of Ministers does not mean that the Minister concerned is losing his powers. I have applied the same reasoning, and I decided, not at the request of the Prime Minister, but simply after weighing things up, that in this case the Minister of Finance had to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u23	Mr President, you will have a problem with me and we will discuss it in the Conference of Presidents. I don't like that kind of decision. The issue is the federal involvement in the treatment of previous hospital infrastructure expenses. It's not nothing! The Ministers-Presidents wrote not to the Minister of Finance, but to the Prime Minister. So it's a government-to-government problem. If we are told that the Prime Minister no longer wants to be the guarantor of federal loyalty, then this is an important political fact, but it is a problem for me. He has to take care of it. In addition, you unilaterally decide to redirect the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u24	We will talk about this at the Conference of Presidents, but I have given you my reasoning. I therefore propose that we stick to this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u25	Prime Minister, do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u26	We are not going to open a procedural debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u27	Yes, for you have made a mistake!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u28	Mr President, we can allow the first to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u29	Mr President, Madam Member, when you receive the answer to the question, you will also understand the logic of the reasoning that has been developed. I chair the consultation committee. In this case, the problem raised by Mr Laaouej concerns very directly one point which was submitted this morning to the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Finance will explain it to you. You will be able to see that there is no difference in government on this issue. It is often a criterion that is taken into consideration to justify the fact that the Prime Minister responds in person. Secondly, this issue is in the hands of the Minister of Finance, who has solved certain difficulties, as he will explain in his reply. Moreover, the item has not even been included in a forthcoming consultation committee. That letter was received yesterday. I have even had personal and oral talks with the Minister-President of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, who has not failed to raise my awareness of this subject. Very quickly, within a few hours, a solution in federal loyalty was made to the remark raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u30	The last word comes from Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u31	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his explanation, which shows that he obviously had his hand on this matter and that he could have answered Mr Laaouej himself. Mr President, you have made a mistake by redirecting the matter to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u32	Mr President, I would like to speak on another subject, but one which concerns the same procedural problem. We came back with questions about the demonstration of the non-marketer. There were 20 000 people in the streets of Brussels today. They demonstrated for pensions, professional careers and employment as well as for health. Several ministers are therefore involved and involved. It is therefore logical that the Prime Minister should respond on behalf of the entire government. The Minister of Health cannot be responsible for everything, for once! Send this question back to the Minister of Health, when several ministers are involved, it is to discharge, as Prime Minister, his responsibilities directly. In doing so, the signal given to these 20,000 people and to the silent majority is obviously not acceptable. Mr. Chair, as a first step, these issues were well placed in a table for the Prime Minister. However, you did not advise that this table has been modified. These questions are no longer addressed to the Prime Minister. That is absolutely not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u33	Mrs Fonck, contrary to what Mrs Onkelinx said, in your case I had no knowledge of this problem. I wasn't told or written. I wasn't called. If there is a problem with oral questions, it is always possible to call me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u34	The first painting was correct. This painting has been changed! In the first table, it was the Prime Minister who responded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u35	Actually, Mrs Fonck, I don't know and we're going to go to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u36	Aren't you the Speaker of the House?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u37	We can return to that in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u38	You didn't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, CETA's tempo is accelerating. Despite the will of the Belgian Socialist Euro MPs, the European Parliament decided not to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union to verify the compatibility of CETA with the European Treaties. To put this question to the Court would have suspended the ratification process for a few months, but the question asked fully justified it. We can only regret it. But it's not all lost. Indeed, at Belgian level, by the determined action of the French-speaking entities of the country to strictly regulate such a treaty, we have obtained the binding inclusion of an interpretative instrument and ten declarations. This interpretative instrument has a binding legal form and ensures compliance by CETA with all our frequently expressed safeguards. Wallonia has also asked your Foreign Minister to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to obtain his opinion on this compatibility between CETA and the mechanisms of the ICS with the European Treaties. Prime Minister, when does the federal state intend to comply with the Walloon requirement to seek the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union on CETA and ICS as a matter of urgency? What steps do you intend to take to ensure that the legality of CETA and ICS is established before new decisions are taken? Finally, since Walloon voluntarism has put public and parliamentary debate at the centre of the discussions and has opened the door to a more democratic and transparent trade policy, will you inform parliaments about this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer will be rather brief, and I will go to the essentials. Within the framework of the inter-federal negotiations within the Conciliation Committee, aimed at validating Belgium's declaration in relation to CETA, a precise text has been validated by the federal government and by the federated entities. Here is the content: "Belgium will seek an opinion from the Court of Justice of the European Union on the compatibility of the ICS mechanism with the European treaties, in particular in the light of opinion 2/2015." This opinion concerns a procedure which was launched with regard to the free trade agreement finalised in 2013 between the European Union and Singapore. We are expected to receive this notice in the course of 2017. Nevertheless, without waiting to receive it, in order to be ready at the time of its receipt and to assess the advisability of triggering this procedure, I have already asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to instruct the departments concerned to prepare themselves technically so that, in due course, one can assess, in accordance with the agreement of this opinion concerning Singapore, whether such a request should be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u41	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I do hear that things are slowly getting in place. On the other hand, unfortunately, you have not responded to the steps you will take to ensure that this legality is properly established before further decisions are taken. My group will pay particular attention to this. I would like to reiterate that the action that my group has been defending here, and by Wallonia, for months, was certainly not meant to prevent our continent's trade relations and to unnecessarily defy our Canadian friends. This action was aimed at promoting fair international trade. This action has made CETA a reference in practice, setting European standards for all future negotiations. Wallonia de facto imposed the democratisation of negotiations through a much earlier and more open debate with the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that, after each plenary session, I get a few dozen e-mails, and that number is still growing about the way Members of the Chamber behave during the discussions. They do everything but listen to each other. I would therefore like to ask you to listen to colleagues who are asking questions and also to listen to the answers because this attitude gives the impression of being rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 2 March 2011, the amendment to the buy-back law will be tabled in the Finance Committee. It was a bunch of pieces of legislation. We realized it had to be rushed through. We were given an hour to look at the text. It had to be voted on in the evening. Mr. Secretary, the whole affair is more and more like a novel, a Dan Brown novel. I give you the title: The Chodiev Code. It is a novel in which federal ministers, a former President of the Senate, the French President, but also our royal family, play a role, but in which the Order of Malta also plays a role. Minister, the corruption in question goes to the heart of politics, but also to the heart of your party. We can only observe that the buy-back law is lobbyist work and is ultimately also a lobbyist law. In June 2016, the Constitutional Court made firewood of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing everyone. I certainly do not want to point the finger at anyone here, but it is time for us to think carefully. Almost everyone here has ever been in the majority. We are all aware of the phenomenon of amendments which are rapidly being tabled to one or the other law and which are being pushed down the throats of a number of parties without the Council of State's opinion. We all know that. In fact, we have to think about this properly. We all know that these amendments are often not a parliamentary initiative, but come from the government. That's how it went with the payoff bill. Mr President, I note that even Minister Leterme has made a number of comments on this and has also confirmed them. The redemption bill is not a good solution. However, if the tax administration and the judiciary do not work optimally, we will not be able to do much with it. Mr Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. What lessons do you draw from this affair, which absolutely must not happen again? We must reflect on the way in which the government deals with Parliament. What are you suggesting? Will you do that? It is therefore very important that we know the state of play of the buy-back law, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u44	Shut down, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u45	There's got to be some clarity. Is she being put on hold? Can it be applied under new conditions? Are you going to change them or abolish them? Clarity is very important here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can, of course, confirm what I said very clearly here last week. You're right, there are questions and we need answers. We must do everything we can to ensure transparency. There are two trials today. On the one hand, there is a judicial procedure. Like everyone else here, I am in favour of the full independence of justice in order to carry out its task properly. On the other hand, there is now a possible new procedure within the framework of Parliament's decision to set up a committee of inquiry. I made it clear last week that the government will at least cooperate fully with Parliament in a perspective of full transparency. I would once again like to make a very clear plea that the separation of powers is a very important principle for our democracy and for confidence in our institutions. Everyone in this assembly has everything to gain in terms of transparency and clarity. As a government, we will play our full role in a logic of cooperation with Parliament. Then perhaps it will be possible to learn lessons from that together. That's what I hope. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you very much for your reply. We believe that this committee of inquiry is a good thing and it will certainly receive our support. It is important that we get an answer as soon as possible as to the status of that bill, because people need clarity. I am thinking of you and the government, but also of all my fellow Members here, about how this relationship between government and Parliament should continue. There must also be transparency in the drafting of laws. You said yourself that this is important and I support you in that. Transparency is the most important thing, because people no longer tolerate back room politics, people are tired of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u48	Prime Minister, you met Prime Minister May of the United Kingdom last Tuesday to discuss the Brexit. The Brexit creates the necessary unrest. As Belgium exports more than 30 billion to and imports nearly 20 billion from the United Kingdom, the unrest is justified. The government must therefore take the necessary steps to address the concerns. It seems to me appropriate that we should not only focus on maintaining and strengthening our bilateral trade relations, but that we should also take an offensive approach to the opportunities offered by the Brexit. I see different slopes there. The first is certainly a possible move to Brussels from European institutions such as the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority, which would create a lot of indirect employment as well as direct employment. I am also thinking of attracting London-based banks, which will no longer be able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. They will not wait for the outcome of the trade agreements to be drawn up and will leave London. I am convinced that our country has many assets to take over the role of financial hub in the heart of Europe. In this context, it is important to realise that other countries, and certainly other cities such as Paris, Amsterdam and Frankfurt, have already made considerable efforts to attract these financial institutions. Prime Minister, I have two questions. What are the results of your meeting with British Prime Minister May last Tuesday? What ambitions does our government have for attracting European institutions and possibly interested financial institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u49	Thank you, Mr President, for your important question. Indeed, last week I was lucky enough to meet Theresa May in London. The debate on the Brexit was, of course, on the agenda, but also on other important issues, such as the fight against terror and European geopolitical evolution, including relations with Russia and the situation in Syria. In short, there were many important points to discuss in depth, especially after the elections in the US. They may require us to have a new relationship with the United States. Firstly, as regards Brexit, my first point was a confirmation of our position, namely that the formal negotiations will not start without notification. I have argued for more clarity and I have been given more clarity about the timing. The negotiation process will be launched in March, following formal notification by the United Kingdom. Secondly, I have advocated an intelligent Brexit in which, on the one hand, one tries to strengthen economic relations and, on the other hand, remains attentive to the risk of dismantling at European level. We face delicate challenges, such as supporting growth and job creation in Europe, the geopolitical situation and the control of Europe's external borders, and these are just a few examples. In this context, it is important to defend a strong Europe, with a view to resolving these fundamental issues. This is certainly one of the major challenges for the coming months. I'm sure of that. Thirdly, Belgium has assets. Indeed, we want to make our country more attractive to investment in general, and the Council of Ministers will certainly follow the situation closely. Let me give you an example. Very soon after the referendum, at the initiative of the Minister for Work, we set up a working group to look at how we can play a positive role in the negotiations and how we can be sure that the Brexit can also have positive effects on Belgium, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I think it is important for the United Kingdom to be sensible in dealing with this heavy responsibility that the Brexit brings with it. The search for that new balance in trade relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom will be a difficult exercise in any case. Mr Prime Minister, I would nevertheless like to urge you once again to consider what efforts will really be needed to strengthen trade relations on a permanent basis and, above all, which European and financial institutions we can bring to our country and to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u51	Mr Van Peteghem gave his maiden speech last night in a not so well-stocked hemisphere. That is why I would like to congratulate him on his near-maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u52	Mr President, Minister, you will not have missed the fact that many people have come to the streets today to protest at the rising workload and the many savings imposed on them by your government and the other governments. The healthcare sector and the cultural sector in particular have been on the streets today, but there is also increasing workload in other sectors. The numbers don't lie, more and more people stay home with a burn-out and never before have so many people been long-term ill. Two years ago, you decided with a fingernip that people had to work longer. But the way in which that should be done, I have seen very few measures for that. However, that question is important, Minister, and it lives with a lot of people. All people know is that they will have to work longer, but no one knows what measures are in place to protect the employee if he or she is physically or psychologically unable to handle it anymore. There is no measure yet on the table for this. Together with the Health Minister, you have presented a plan to help people who are long-term ill to work faster. I would just like to remind you that these are people who are sick. This requires a very different approach to those who are unemployed...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u53	Mr. Flahaux, may I ask you to...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u54	A little respect, please! Mrs Smeyers, I have already asked the chairman twice that he should intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u55	We know what it's about. So may I ask you to hold talks with ministers in the hallway? You do know this is all coming into view, don't you? Excuse me, Mrs Kitir, you may continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I reminded you that people who are ill require a very different approach from those who are unemployed. This means that people should gradually be given the opportunity to get back to work at times when they feel better. As far as the long-term sick are concerned, I am getting the feeling that you are only looking at the cost, but not so much at the real situation. I've been through your plan, and I have three questions. Firstly, you are now proposing that the patient, not the doctor, fill out a questionnaire after two months of illness. When I'm sick, I go to the doctor. The doctor studied for that, he has a degree for that, and he or she is the one who declares me ill. I don't understand that, if you want to do an evaluation of my healing process, you won't ask the doctor. You're placing full responsibility on the patient now. I have questions about that. I don't get it very well. Why does the patient have to fill out a questionnaire on the evaluation of his healing process? Why don't you put that responsibility on the doctor? Secondly, you said that long-term sick people, once they can return to work, can keep their sickness benefit on the first day. That already exists today, Minister. You want to get involved in legislation now. How do you guarantee that if people are ill for a long time, if they are going to work for more than one day, they will not earn less? Thirdly, you are the social face of this government, at least you are trying to be, but in my view you are not yet. According to the social partners, a sanction doesn't help. Nevertheless, I read that you are going to see how you can sanction long-term sick people. I don't understand that very well. Why do you abandon the unanimous agreement of the social partners? I would have liked an answer to these three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kitir, for the record, we discussed and adopted the draft law in committee on Tuesday. Two royal decrees have been published today, one of my colleague, Mrs De Block, and one of myself. Both the legislative amendment and the two royal decrees implement what, although a while ago, the social partners agreed. So that's a complete picture, that's not a plan. It will enter into force in December. I therefore believe that we have implemented what the social partners have proposed. I think this is a very good approach because we work at different stages. A distinction must be made between an employee who is becoming ill for a long time and someone who is not bound by a contract of employment, which belongs to my colleague's area of competence. I believe that we are making maximum efforts here to re-integrate the worker who has unfortunately been absent for a long time because of illness in a positive way. You have undoubtedly read the KBBBs well, but for the sake of clarity, I would like to stress that the reintegration process can be started at the request of the employee or his treating doctor, the counsellor or the employer. Of course, there must always be an agreement between the employee and the employer. If one or the other doesn't like it, then there must be reason why one doesn't. I believe that this is the right approach. Together with my colleague, I hope that with this approach many people will be able to re-integrate into the work and, as far as I am concerned, with the employer where they used to work. The second element you are referring to relates to response. I have to tell you that the discussion in the government has not yet ended, but we want to go a step further in this respect. The discussions on this issue in the government's bosom are still under way. I believe that it is important to respond to both the employer and the employee so that the number of disabled people, which is extremely high and has a cost of more than EUR 7 billion, can be reduced in a good way. I can assure you that, initially, the reintegration of the employee is our starting point, not budgetary or other secondary considerations, as you suggest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A lot of questions remain open. In order to re-integrate the long-term sick, this is an en- en-story, because both the sick, the doctor and the employer will have to cooperate. In this story, you place too much responsibility on the patient. Suppose I'm sick, but I want to be employed back, preferably with my current employer, but I can't do my job there anymore. However, my employer does not cooperate to find another job for me. Then who's wrong? You are talking about sanctions in your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u59	No, there's no sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u60	Yesterday, Minister, I heard you say that you are not in favour of sanctions, but that the Minister of Health should be asked how the sanctions should be implemented. I call for this to continue on a voluntary basis, because this is an en-en-story. Sanctions will not help in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u61	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in recent days, many Belgians, many parents have been shocked by Proximus' latest publicity. The latter staged a child addressing Saint-Nicolas by telling him that he did not want a wool sweater but that he wanted a smartphone. This ad spot is asking questions. Children are increasingly being targeted by advertising, and this is becoming more and more young. The tone used by the child in this advertising also runs counter to such essential values in our society as respect and politeness. There is also a right to question the value of promoting the purchase of smartphones for prepubertal children when one knows the risks associated with Internet access for young children. Complaints were lodged with the Jury of Advertising Ethics and the operator in question decided not to broadcast the advertisement any more. While we were celebrating the International Day of the Rights of the Child last Sunday, I would like to share with you the legal instruments existing from the point of view of consumer protection in order to protect children from advertising. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what are the existing provisions of the Code of Economic Law protecting children from advertising? Are they sufficiently effective? Do you think the Advertising Ethics Jury's recommendations for advertising children's holidays are sufficiently comprehensive and appropriate, particularly with regard to advertising on new technologies? Are there any awareness-raising measures? Are the various players in the sector involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a rule of law in Book VI of the Code of Economic Law which states that "unfair practices are involved, in particular in advertising, in directly encouraging children to buy or persuade their parents or other adults to buy the product being advertised to them". The Code is very clear on this issue. In addition, there is a general rule that advertisements addressed to a specific group of consumers, such as children, must be judged against the average standards of this group. In practical terms, when communicating to the child, his natural naivety and lack of experience will be taken into account. Thirdly, the rule of law is effectively criminalized with level 2 sanctions. Today, the Jury of Advertising Ethics - an independent body, as you know - has pronounced itself on the basis of an international code on a concrete case in the field of advertising for children. In concrete terms, it is Proximus which encourages children to ask their parents to buy a gsm. I have asked the Economic Inspectorate to examine this advertisement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u63	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I also want to say that this episode reflects a more important phenomenon that is that of advertising to an increasingly young audience, in an increasingly intrusive way and using new technologies. We believe that it might be interesting to adapt the Code of Economic Law to this new reality in order to better frame advertisements for minors. We will therefore shortly be submitting a proposal to that effect. There will be no question of creating new advisory committees of any kind, but of going to the core, that is to say, ensuring the protection of our children.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u64	Minister of the Interior, in 2009, Khalid El Bakraoui, the terrorist of the Maelbeek metro, stole a work of art from Magritte, a nude – that the manners of the terrorists are not what they claim. He managed to swindle insurance for 50,000 euros. He re-edited this feat and stole several master paintings in 2013. He tried to sell these works of art. His subsequent journey towards terrorism is well known. There is evidence, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that there is a link between the trafficking of works of art and the financing of terrorism in Belgium. At the same time, you weaken Belgium's position on the international level, you dismantle the "Arts and Antiquities" cell, you publicly say that the fight against the trafficking of works of art, and I quote your comments from fifteen days ago, "is not a priority of the Belgian government". Interpol had already launched an alarm call. Unesco today sent a letter to the Belgian Government expressing its anger. The International Council of Monuments and Sites, which brings together 11,000 experts from 110 countries, expresses the same anger towards Belgium. It's time for you to pull yourself together. It is well known that Belgium is a hub for the trafficking of works of art. The link with the financing of terrorism is known. On the contrary, this "Arts and Antiquities" cell must be strengthened. It is essential that we are able to return the reports that we have not returned the last two semesters to Unesco, which calls for them. That is an obligation of the Security Council. We didn't, because there's no one left to complete these reports. It is time for you to comply, for Belgium to comply with its obligations in the fight against terrorism and trafficking in works of art. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. Take into account this alarm cry launched by these international organizations!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dallemagne, I would first like to say that the optimisation of the Federal Police was decided in 2013. The decision had been taken to bring investigators closer to the place where these phenomena occurred. I support this decision. Surveillance of art and antiquity trafficking is included in the normal operation of the federal police. However, there are specialized investigators, dedicated investigators in most of the judicial police in each district. I would also like to point out that, with regard to the financing of terrorism, we have a specialized police unit. Funding is not only done through the traffic in works of art, as it is much more extensive. This unit therefore processes financial information. More specifically, with regard to your questions concerning the UNESCO report, I pledge that we will catch up with this delay. I was not informed; it was through the press article that I was informed. We have specialized staff, who are assigned to the drafting of reports. In this way, we will correct the shot. As for Mr El Bakraoui's case, the media spoke of "rumours". I cannot comment on this because it is part of the investigation. The facts you just mentioned go back to 2013 – and even before. At that time, the cell relating to the traffic in works of art existed. However, it has shown little effectiveness in combating this phenomenon. We have therefore taken decisions to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u66	Minister of the Interior, as I have already told you, on 22 March 2016 there was a break-up. You can't pretend to ignore that the situation is new. At that time, it could not be known that Khalid El Bakraoui was going to commit the 22 March attacks. Today, you know that. Your policy is irresponsible, as all international organizations point out. You are not in a position to complete the UNESCO report, because simply there is no one to do so. Catherine De Bolle has been in possession of this report since May, but she has not been able to carry out this task, because there is no one left to do it at the central level. It is not with a deconcentrated police that we can comply with our international obligations and respond to the Security Council. I urge you not to disregard or ignore these appeals from serious organisations, which rely on Belgium and its position in the fight against terrorism to be effective and to stop dismantling federal services. It's not the first one you're dismembering. It is wrong to claim that this is the responsibility of previous ministers. Proof of this is that you are doing it today, in November 2016! These instruments have existed so far. You are doing the same with the OECDFO and the FCCU. We also know the state of weakening the central counter-terrorism unit, DJSOC Terro. I urge you to put an end to this dismantling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u67	Minister, in the media we see yet another scandalous consequence of the failure of the justice policy of ankle bracelets, early release, pats on the back, winks and kissing hands that this government continues. This time it's an illegal Moroccan, Azrih Fikri, sentenced to three years in jail for sexual assaults and five disobedient orders to leave the territory. Despite these facts, he was released early after barely a year and without any condition. Last summer, approximately at the same time as your instruction to accelerate the release of detainees with sentences of up to three years, it came to the logical consequence of such a lax justice policy. There was again a very brutal rape by the same Azrih Fikri. Mr Minister, could you explain to the victims and to the many potential victims why you allow dangerous criminal illegals to walk freely? Why are convicted illegal rapists released without conditions in this society? I read that no conditions can be imposed on an illegal person without an address. Then why is he being released at all? I don't understand anymore. I hope you can explain that to me. I also do not understand why victims of previous rapes are not involved in the investigation. In the summer of 2015, there was a victim of similar age in the same neighborhood in which also an immigrant offender worked three times. Why wasn't the unsub confronted with them? Why wasn't police, parquet and court communicating publicly after such brutal rapes in the summer of 2015 and the summer of 2016? Had correct communication not been useful to warn people, or is there any reason why such matters should be kept silent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u68	Mr Minister, once again a young woman experiences the pain of being raped, by a perpetrator who had already committed such acts and who, moreover, had no permit to reside in that territory, in that country. For my group, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against sexual abuse must not only be carried out on paper by us as legislators, but above all outside, in practice. I am therefore addressing you, Minister. For us, parole is not a favor for convicted criminals. This can only be done shortly before the end of the sentence for reintegration. In other words, it cannot be for someone who does not have a residence permit for this country. In such cases, conditional release can only be made for the effective removal of the perpetrator from the territory. Finally, Minister, there is the observation that I read in the media, namely that a person who is subject to parole is not being followed at all because of the fact that no special conditions are imposed. However, you know as well as I do that in all cases the punishment is not over and that the general condition of not committing new acts is beyond question. In other words, not only the courthouses but also the police forces must follow such freedomd convicts day in and day out actively. Mr Minister, my questions are simple. Can you explain to me why a convicted illegal criminal was simply released and released to society? Secondly, can you confirm that when a person is released he is actively and proactively followed up at all times? Can you reassure me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u69	Mr President, Minister, the facts are well known. We have all read about the illegal rapist who got three years in prison, which in itself is not much, and who, after one year of early release, just, almost automatically, without conditions, following an order from the Foreign Affairs Office that was ignored and was waiting a long time for Morocco's response. We know the result: new facts, a new victim. I think all the indignation is justified today. It's really bad. It is therefore logical that everyone today wonders how the hell that could have happened. However, this government and this majority have already sought a number of solutions. That can also be said. I am thinking of the expulsion of illegal criminals, as a result of your cooperation with Secretary of State Theo Francken, so many illegal criminals have never been deported, the agreement with Morocco and also the legal changes we have made to your potpourri II law, whereby illegal criminals can no longer be paroled and can no longer serve a sentence under electronic supervision. They can be removed to serve their sentence in their homeland. That legislation exists. However, we still have the letter for short-term punishment. That's annoying. Because of that circular letter, someone can still be released, including an illegal one, after a third of his sentence, after a director's decision. However, contraindications need to be investigated, but they are apparently not sufficiently investigated in the event that we are discussing them now. It concerns, among other things, the provision of shelter and means of subsistence, and it is also necessary to examine whether there is a risk to physical integrity. The government agreement states that we would abolish these circulars, and I have read that in your judicial plan. However, there is more to it, because as I read it, the letter has simply not been correctly applied. The contraindications mentioned do occur to the person concerned, which are reasons why he should not be released. Mr Minister, was the procedure for early release correctly applied in that case? Will we, if someone is released, please ensure a much better follow-up? When will we ensure that these circulars are no longer used and that punished people are punished? Finally, I know that experts are working with you on a new Criminal Code II. Will we ensure that penalties for such acts can be considerably higher than they are today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my sincere regret at what happened to the victim. I promise to do everything in my power to ensure that such matters are avoided in the future. However, I should also like to clarify a few factual issues. At the time this man was detained for rape, they were convinced that he was an Iraqi. This means that he was illegally resident on our territory but came from a country with which we have not concluded an agreement on repatriation. That also means that at the time of his normal release there was contact between the prison director and the Foreign Office. If there is no agreement with the person concerned, he shall not be transferred to a closed alien centre at such a time. Moreover, the six-month measure did not apply at the time. The potpourriwet did not enter into force until a little later. Anyway, one could not transfer him to a closed alien center because there is no agreement with the motherland. So he was ordered to leave the country. For the umpteenth time. At that time, it had not been established that he was a Moroccan. That wasn't established until after he committed new facts. The district attorney has claimed 15 years for this new rape. The prison director will, of course, be able to transfer him to a closed center this time after his sentence. We have repatriated 1 600 convicted illegals in the last year. That's three times more than in the year 2014. I realize this isn't good enough. There is still a great deal to be done, and I am aware of that, including the increase in penalties for violent crimes, and in particular for rape. Book II of the Criminal Code will provide for this. I hope you will cooperate with me on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u71	Minister, you do not give any explanation as to why such a person is being released from society. You say you can't send the man back because the nationality wasn't established. That is no reason, however, to release such a person without any condition, without any control, into society after a year. I read today a response from one of the best-known female punishers, Master Nina Van Eeckhout, who demands heavier penalties for rapists. No more than rightly so, by the way. She says: "A rapist who gets three years gets out of prison almost automatically after a year and under three years he also escapes the conditions that the criminal court can impose. I call that mopping with the tap open." Minister, she is right about the surplus. Actually, she gives a summary of your lax policy. You say, and that is the common thread through all your potpourris that have passed here, that you want to save and fewer people in prison. You do that by releasing them quickly. You should take an example from the Netherlands, where they first invested in capacity, precisely in order to carry out any sentence, however short. And that scares you. Now there is capacity for surplus because there are fewer criminals and not because, as happens here, the criminals are free to roam.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u72	Mr President, Minister, much has indeed happened. I won't deny that. I also know that you are very inspired when it comes to combating sexual abuse, but I think we should work together and learn together. I would ask you to think about the conditional release of illegal convicts. It's either one or the other. Either one is illegal, one identifies in good time, means an order to leave the territory in good time, transfer the person concerned to a closed centre and then put him on the plane to the home country. Either there is a possibility of reintegration, but that means that a legal stay on the territory is possible. If that is not the case, then we really must not release anyone who has been convicted and who is a danger to our society. I would ask you to think about this and, if necessary, give the necessary instructions. I'll thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that there are many factors and that identity is one of them. Still, we need to look at the right order in the chain. It starts with parole. You're saying we need to know the identity to send someone back. However, we should not have acted on one third of the punishment. He'd been punished for three years, and he should've done it till the end. Meanwhile, we had known the identity and there was the Morocco agreement and then this had not happened. It is a great deal of work, Minister, but this only shows that illegal criminals without shelter or means of subsistence, which is by definition the case for illegal immigrants, should not be released. Contraindications as described in your 2015 circular should apply and we should not give in to them. Every victim that falls due to inadequate punishment is one too many. We have already done a lot, Minister, but the execution of the sentence is a yard that still has a lot of work to do. I have heard your call: we are prepared to work very hard to ensure that such facts do not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u74	Madam Minister, last week, a number of measures on labour integration finally accelerated, with the publication today of the long-awaited royal decisions on the reintegration plan. The day before yesterday there was the adoption of a labour law framework for that plan in the Committee on Social Affairs and yesterday you announced a relaxation of the permitted work. In addition, the debate on accountability is also in the last straight line. This is not too early, because just this week it was shown with figures that the cost of incapacity for work in 2017 for the first time in the history of our social security will be higher than the cost of unemployment. A global approach to disability has always been a priority for the N-VA. I have repeatedly accused both in committee and here in plenary that it took far too long. But if it's okay, so do we. I should like to congratulate you and your colleagues in the government today on the breakthrough in a number of dossiers. At the same time, I would like clarification on some of those announced initiatives. Firstly, you stated in De Tijd that no less than 10 000 reintegration plans would be drawn up by multidisciplinary teams in 2017. Is the sector ready for all this work and is there sufficient capacity to make all these plans and, I hope, follow up? Secondly, I understand that the relaxation of the permitted work is, as a matter of fact, about improving the existing system of progressive work resumption. If that is the case, to what extent is this applicable to someone who goes back to work with another employer? Do you not fear that the adjustment of the benefit according to the number of days worked will lead to administrative difficulties? Why do you insist that the medical counsellor should give prior consent, even if there is a bottleneck in that area just as often and is the approach often too medical?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u75	Mr Spooren, the two royal decisions of Minister Peeters and myself have indeed been published together in the Belgian Official Journal today, as agreed. They enter into force on 1 December and form a whole. This is a reintegration process, which is set up in cooperation with Mr Peeters, who is responsible for the labour law section. That is why it was discussed in that committee. The entry into force on 1 December concerns the new influx of workers who will be permanently disabled from then on. Early next year, the project will come at cruising speed. These are 10 000 employees. The route is therefore mandatory for the new cases, but there are also opportunities for workers who are already long-term disabled. They can ask themselves to join such a reintegration process. I repeat that this cannot be said enough, who is really too ill, is left alone. We work with a quick scan by the consulting physician and the doctor. This is how it is determined, in collaboration with the patient, for whom a trajectory makes sense. The implementation has taken a long time, you say, but there has been a great deal of consultation with the field. An electronic tool had to be developed to ensure that the information between the consultant and the treating physician, and possibly the occupational physician, would be safe according to the situation. We have also simplified the rules on permitted work and made the system more financially interesting. The calculation was based on a disk system. That will now be a simpler system. If you work one day a week, you will receive a wage for one day without losing your benefit. If you work for two days, you get a two-day paycheck and you get an 80% benefit. For those who make the effort to resume work, it is therefore a more interesting financial system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u76	Madam Minister, as far as the reintegration plans are concerned, I am reassured that there has been sufficient consultation. In any case, I would like to propose that we give sufficient support and training to the doctors and experts involved in the preparation of the reintegration plans, because it is a very new concept. We naturally welcome the relaxation of the permitted work. However, I believe that the target group is still too limited, and I therefore call on you to go one step further, for example in the concept of employment integration jobs, which should also include those with an income replacement benefit (IVT) and which should make it easier to work with another employer. Finally, I would like to call on you, in the debate on accountability, to give Mrs Kitir full consideration to a balanced approach, in which both employers and workers and doctors are positively and negatively stimulated to fully participate in maximum labour integration. I believe that everyone wins in a successful approach to disability, first and foremost the workers, who otherwise remain in the cold, but also the employers and finally our social security, which in this way remains somewhat affordable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u77	Mr President, Minister, I was, of course, present at the demonstration this morning. I met 20,000 men and women there who brought a warm wind. They are people who today in our society are busy taking care of those who need it in our society. That warm wind of people who are sometimes 24 hours on 24 standby to help in hospitals and health centers so that everyone in our country can have proper care. That warm wind of people working on solidarity, daily, and not counting their hours. Madam Minister, what a difference with that cool, cold wind coming from the right wing of this Parliament. The wind of the numbers, of the pennies. To see the wind of selfishness of nothing but bubbles. Such a cold wind is not the wind that our society wants, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, today your savings have been given a face. 20 000 faces were present in Brussels. Minister, your budget cuts, which represented only a few small figures, today have faces. This is about 20,000 people who work almost 24 hours a day in hard-to-reach areas every day to help people who need it most. In this area, people are tired. People give a lot of their person because they don't work with objects, but with human beings who ask for help. And more and more are those who say they are tired and want to leave earlier. Those people had already fought the white rage in the year 2000. They were entitled to wrinkle days. Those days they had been given because they had not agreed to a raise; they had a few wrinkle days to blow out, to rest. Now you come back to that and say no wrinkle days. The Minister says, of course, that the wrinkle days are stuck from 45 years old. Madam Secretary, can you give one argument as to why someone who is 44 years in the sector would experience the workload less hard? Madam Secretary, will you come back to the antisocial measures you are now implementing, or will you continue to break down our health system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u78	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, I had addressed this question to the Prime Minister. His silence was a reflection of his disinterest in the reality we know. In a way, it sends you back "the potato"; therefore, it is your responsibility. He considers, I imagine, that it is because of you that this kind of savings has been decided. It is true that in the area of health, pensions and career adjustment, harsh and brutal measures have been taken over the past two years. And as if that wasn't enough, this time you decided to use health to bail out state funds. One third of your slip, that is 900 million out of 3 billion, comes from the health care budget. The patient is heavily affected. Health professionals are just as well. This morning, the hospital sector was particularly represented in the demonstration. Minister, your strategy hurts, but it is mostly counterproductive. Indeed, it leads to job losses and ultimately increases disability and disability. I would like for a moment, ladies and gentlemen, to slip into the skin of a nurse. Patients are getting older and older. Pathologies are increasingly burdensome and complex. Patients are an increasingly heavy burden for nurses: it is a reality. You're cutting the hospital budget. This will clearly lead to job losses. Nurses will have more loads, more to do with less. You punish hospitals, especially through the problem of pregnant nurses to be ruled out. Again, nurses will have to do more with less. However, they are already engaged in heavy trades; I certainly hope that you recognize them as such. They will have to work longer through pension reform. This morning, you received a delegation and quickly communicated. In this tweet, Madam Minister, you said that there was an agreement to continue a constructive dialogue. "Career ends: space for consultation," you say. Minister, my question will be very simple. Yes or no are you going to open a dialogue to change course and go back on your decisions, or is this tweet a fake and a frontal communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u79	Mr. President, Minister, you are Minister of Health and Minister of Social Affairs. These are key positions for the maintenance and preservation of solidarity, as well as key positions for the consideration of social workers and health workers. Yet, with the complicity – because you are not alone – of the Minister of Employment but also of the Minister of Integration, under the leadership of the Prime Minister to whom we addressed our questions, all together, you seriously harm the health not only of patients but also of health professionals, workers and, more particularly, of workers in the non-market sector. The thing that scares me the most is that the policies of this government are already precaring the most fragile and the poorest citizens. As if that wasn't enough, you're precautioning the workers whose mission is to look after and help these most disadvantaged people. You are therefore further strengthening policies of exclusion and precarisation. When you cut the health care budget in the way you do it, especially by cutting budgets for hospitals, you know that they will no longer be able to meet staff standards. Removing end-of-care arrangements for nurses, as if it weren't a difficult job, obviously undermines their well-being, the quality of their work and the people they care for who deserve their care. Putting a moratorium on medical homes on the package is directly aimed at workers in the non-market sector who are willing not to make money on patients' backs. They are workers who aim for solidarity and work with the poorest. Minister, what are your objectives? What are the objectives of this government? Did this happen, in the end, to a commodification of health care? Is it fighting to reach the top step of the podium of the fosseurs de la solidarité? Today, 20,000 workers in the non-market sector have found themselves in the streets. What have you retained from their complaints and claims? What concrete and tenable answers are you going to give them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u80	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I share with Mrs Fonck the regret that the Prime Minister is not here to reply. After all, it is about much more than just health care. This is about the attitude of this government towards hard-working people. Madam Minister, this morning, with a few tens of thousands of people from the sector, we went through the streets of Brussels in protest against the excessive workload, in protest against excessive savings in healthcare. It's been a long time since the white rage was so great. However, the expectations were high when this government took office. A lot of reforms were envisaged by someone who came from the sector, by someone who knew the sector. In that sense, expectations were high. Today people are angry and disappointed. Two years after this government took office, the health sector accounts for one third of the savings, almost EUR 1 billion, Madam Minister. Low-threshold, good, affordable care through district health centres must pay for it. The social status of care providers is being addressed. The workload has never been this high. That these caring people are going out on the streets with so much today, you must be awake, Madam Secretary. You have to take that into account. After all, caring people don't get on the streets so easily. Usually caring people just continue to ease pain, listen to people, work with heart and soul for their job and give themselves up for their ideal. How long are these caring people going to have to pay for these flat savings because this government is not getting the budget in order, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u81	Mr President, Minister, more than 170 000 nurses, nurses, physicists and logistics staff are under your responsibility at federal level and more than 300 000 other workers in the Flemish care sector are concerned today. They are expressing this by coming to Brussels today. They do so with a great deal of responsibility, because the provision of care in the facilities from which that care staff comes is guaranteed today. This is a good example of how social action and continuity of services can be reconciled. I fully understand the concerns of the people in the healthcare sector. They deserve a great deal of respect and appreciation, and we must treat them with care. The mental and physical burden of people with a care profession should not be underestimated. Every day they are confronted with human suffering and a concerned family, with difficult back straining activities, early and late working hours and night work. That requires a great deal from a human being in the current context. Those who are active locally know that care needs are growing and are getting heavier, for example in residential care centres. People are getting, thank God, getting older. It is a growing sector with very high workload and often staff shortages. The wrinkle days, which allow staff to get a little breathing space, are therefore a good system to keep the work going a little longer and workable, which is one of the spearheads of this government. In the system, a number of things need to be adjusted, focusing mainly on the care staff. We agree with that. However, the formula to provide extra breathing space through free days should be maintained. The RSZ figures show that this leads to positive results. For example, there is much less outflow since that system is in place and people also continue to work effectively longer, which is just one of the objectives of this government. It is good to look at the attitude of the Flemish administration in this dossier. Flemish minister Vandeurzen has already indicated that he does not want to touch the wrinkle days. A different regime at federal level than at Flemish level can be spared in this sector. We are not going to organise our own competition between health care institutions, depending on whether they fall under federal competence or under the competence of the Flemish level. We're not gonna make it any more complicated than it already is today, are we? Madam Secretary, I would like to hear from you what your attitude will be on this dossier. To what extent will you spare the care professionals as much as possible and offer a perspective for a workable end-of-life career? To what extent have you already consulted your Flemish colleague, who is not planning to finish the wrinkle days for the time being? How will you organise the joint federal and Flemish social consultation in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u82	Mr President, Minister, today 20 000 people from the social profit sector came to the streets because the water is on their lips. I have argued this morning with my former colleagues, nurses in hospitals, midwifes in home care and staff from the district health centers, all people who do their job with passion, with enthusiasm and with a lot of drive. I think everyone agrees that we should carry these people on hand. After all, care is the cornerstone of our society. If we do not take care of the professional care providers, then the care and socialization of care is also under pressure. If these people are on the streets massively because the government's policy is disastrous in their eyes, then you must listen as Minister of Health. What is this government doing, however? It targets these hard-working people: fewer staff around the patient's bed, fewer wrinkle days for those under 45 years of age, less wage indexing and more and longer working at the same time, more chronic and heavy patients due to ageing and more effort to combine work and care and private life. In short, more workload and less good care. This government is affecting our health care in the heart. My question is very simple: what are the main lines of the new social agreement that is being announced? And most importantly, what's the timing? Not words, but deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank all the questioners for the concern they have expressed. I agree that the healthcare sector is crucial for our country, both from a social and an economic point of view, but also from an employee perspective. There will still be employment in the healthcare sector, as the ageing population is only now in full swing. I also appreciate our health professionals working day and night, and especially today. Mr Vercamer, I am pleased that you note that the healthcare sector can be argued at the same time and a minimum service can be provided. During the constructive meeting which the Prime Minister, my colleague the Minister for Work and myself had this morning with the trade union front, it was confirmed that the care sector has the full support of the government. This is also apparent from the very concrete measures already taken. We are thinking of the additional injection of 476 million under the tax shift for the social benefit sector, which is used for a reduction in the burden, but also for additional employment through the social Maribel, as well as for the payment of the pensions of statutory institutions in public hospitals. I have cleared 50 million extra for a first step in the roll-out of the IF-IC job classification system in the federal care sector. The social partners have asked no less than 15 years to take this step. We have invested in this, and we have had a great deal of consultation with them. The core of this system is to assess the gravity and content of a particular function and to attach to it a certain barema. Rather than looking at the diploma, it looks at the care gravity for each profession. Over the past two years, I have worked intensively with the social partners on both the ongoing reforms in the health care sector and the expectations of social consultation itself. Prime Minister Kris Peeters and I agreed this morning to set a timetable to continue the social dialogue to start negotiations on the claim books transmitted by private and public unions. It is precisely in this context that, with regard to requests from the government, it was decided at the last conclave to consult with the partners on a reform of the end-of-career measures. We are beginning this dialogue with an open mind. Without wishing to anticipate the results, I would like to stress that any decision must be taken with the utmost respect for the acquired rights for those who already benefit from the end-of-career measures and provide for transitional periods for others. A social negotiation process is, of course, a process involving three parties: the government, the unions and the employers. Each party has its own expectations and concerns. Our objective is to reach a balanced agreement on the main questions and concerns that all the parties concerned have, taking into account the strict budgetary context. Of course, there will also be alignment with the Länder, which, after the sixth state reform, have become responsible for social dialogue in the area of health care in the elderly sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u84	Minister, you obviously did not understand much of what was said this morning in the streets of Brussels. There were 20 000 demonstrators in Brussels and they were not there to say that everything will go well, as you claim with so much of this and so much of that. They weren't in Brussels before that. They already know that. But that is not enough; that is the specific point. There were 20 000 healthcare providers today who indicated that they could not continue, because the workload is far too high. What's your answer to that? Mr Vercamer, as you have heard, there is no principle regarding wrinkle days; everything is open. CD&V has no guarantee that the wrinkle days will be maintained. That's a big problem. That was exactly what the sector had achieved in 2000, the guarantee that the wrinkle days would be preserved. It is clear that it is only a budgetary issue, that it is only about money. That the government will stop saying that there is no money! There is money in our society, but it has to be collected through a millionaire tax and an added value tax to invest it in the healthcare sector. We have a proposal to raise EUR 1.5 billion from the large pharmaceutical industry through the kiwi model. But what do you do, Madam Secretary? You just want to get the money from the patients. Madam Minister, I will tell you what I heard this morning: first the patients and not the cents. That is the policy you should be pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. May I remind you that, behind the 20,000 people who were protesting in the streets today, there is an immense silent majority, the one who has always provided care even in the event of a strike or demonstration. You said they all had the full support of the government. In this case, how could you accept that the health care budget should be cut to this extent? You were supposed to fight. We weren't supposed to touch the patients. We were supposed to kill the system if additional savings were made. As a result, the budget is largely cut, while more than 2 billion savings have already been made over the last two years. Reforms must indeed take place. But they must not be aimed at eliminating the budgetary slippage. They must contribute to the evolution of the hospital landscape, allow outpatient care, and adapt to the ageing of the population. They must also allow career prolongation by adapting, above all, career ends. You say – I am astonished at the position of the CD&V – that you are going to negotiate. I have the government budget notifications here. I gave you a photocopy. It is written black on white that you will profoundly change the diet that improves career ends and allows nurses and caregivers to work longer. Madam Minister, your technique is always the same: first decide and then pretend to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u86	Minister, I think I'm going to have to clarify two things before I reply. The workers of the non-marketer who were on the street this morning were not there to the glory of the government. They were there to say that this is wrong, that your measures are damaging the non-market sector. There is a second thing I would like to clarify. Concertation, negotiation means discussing, putting the elements on the table and then, together, deciding how we will manage and how we will eventually change the budget. It's not the opposite! You're not the champions of concertation. If you were, people wouldn't be on the street telling you that they can't do it anymore because they work in terrible conditions, because the budget doesn't allow for meeting needs and because career ends are just going to be invivable for them. So we must not transform reality and come here and tell us that a social agreement of the non-marketer will satisfy everyone. You say you have a calendar. You don't give us the dates. You say that within the government, we decided to review the career ends, without deciding what will happen next. At the same time, in employment measures, career ends are at risk for all workers. There is therefore no guarantee that this will not be the case for social workers. In addition, you are already saying that you will guarantee the maintenance of acquired rights and that you will consider the development of transitional measures. This means that you want to change and reduce these end-of-care outcomes for one or more trades, because they are not just those of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u87	Madam Secretary, the healthcare sector that has the full support of this government, you do not believe that, do you? Then why were there 20 000 people on the streets of Brussels this morning? I told you earlier, this is about much more than just health. These caring people carry this society. The degree of civilisation of a society, a society, can be read, in a manner of speaking, of the degree to which attention is paid to care. As Minister for Social Affairs, you must think urgently about this principle. These worried people who are panicked by the measures that are coming towards them deserve much better, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Indeed, this government has already made a very important effort to create additional jobs. It has not happened in years that 476 million was allocated to the creation of additional jobs in this sector. That is an important and good effort by this government. However, we also expect, of course, that in these negotiations there will be enough negotiating space to keep the work in the sector manageable, even at a later age, so that there will remain prospects for a high-quality career in the healthcare sector. We are confident that this government will bring it to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u89	Madam Secretary, this morning's 20 000 protesters are the doers. They deserve our respect and our support. Those 20 000 protesters have my support. Their concern is our common concern. This government very often speaks of a caring society. Well, I'm asking for a caring government. Then you've understood this morning's signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question that I had to ask the Prime Minister, which will ultimately be put to the Minister of Finance, is linked to the subject that we have just mentioned, namely health care, which is terribly ill-treated by the government and which, once again, could be treated in a way that would lead the federated entities to be unable to meet these basic needs for the population of health care. Minister, your budget, both for 2016 and 2017, is not on the track. Efforts for 2016 are postponed to 2017 and the European Commission is sceptical about the realism of this draft budget. We are not yet at the heart of the budget debate, but I cannot hide my concern. The situation is particularly serious and the information I am going to mention is not such as to reassure us. The funding of hospitals and health care is a major concern for the Socialist Party. It is therefore essential for us that the budget forecasts for these areas be reliable and fair. Our fellow citizens will not accept another attack in health care. However, the Communities and the Regions are very concerned. Under the Sixth State Reform, hospital infrastructure funding was transferred to the federated entities. However, federated entities may not be required to fund previous federal hospital infrastructure decisions. That's what we call the loads of the past. And, you should know, a particular allocation is planned to cover that. But it seems that since the beginning of this year, no federal payments have been made. The reason given would be the lack of appropriations in the federal budget. It should be noted that prior to the implementation of the Special Funding Act, an INAMI allocation was included in the federal budget to finance hospital infrastructure. Since the transfer of this jurisdiction, this allocation has been abolished because the special law included hospital infrastructure financing expenditure in an allocation to be paid to federated entities. It would seem, however, that this is not planned, either for the 2016 budget or for the 2017 budget, as the budget allocation has been reduced by the expenditure I have just mentioned. As we know, there were already 200 million missing from the federated entities to meet this need for funding. Today, with what's missing in your 2016 and 2017 budgets, we're talking about $600 million for each year, totalling $1.2 billion. Mr President, my questions are very simple. Mr. Minister of Finance, what about it? Do you confirm, yes or no, that these amounts are not included in the general budget for 2016 and 2017? Above all, tell us if this is going in any way to prevent federated entities from meeting their funding needs. Finally, you will understand that we are concerned about the evolution of the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej, the budgetary adjustment you have mentioned is the result of the complexity, or even inconsistency, of the special financing law. You are certainly aware that, in the context of the sixth reform of the State, various competences in the field of social security have been transferred to the Communities, including investments in hospital infrastructure from 1 January 2016. Funding related to these transferred competences is provided in the form of allocations set out in the general expenditure budget. In 2015, the Communities were not yet ready to take over several of these competences. The federal authorities therefore continue to provide a number of powers on behalf of the Communities. The related costs shall be levied on the allocations to the Communities in accordance with the horizontal protocol. For the financing of hospital infrastructure, known as A1-A3, and the maximum amount to be charged, the levy made by the federal authorities on the allocations concerned is explicitly mentioned in the Special Financing Act. For 2016, this amounts to €784 million for hospital infrastructure and €5 million for the maximum charge. My administration correctly enforces the Special Funding Act and only records net staffing for its jurisdiction. However, the expenditure concerned, amounting to EUR 189 million, is carried out by INAMI. These expenditure can only be considered by INAMI as expenditure for third parties, which is why they are directly taken into account in the respective budgets of the Communities. Technical corrections have been made by providing a new appropriation for these INAMI expenditures in the expenditure budget. I insist on two elements. First, in ESA terms, the budget already provided for this appropriation, so that this adjustment has no impact on the financing balance. Secondly, the intermediate solution we have found allows the Communities to collect the sums to which they are entitled on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u92	Mr. Minister of Finance, it cannot be said that you have been very convincing and enlightening. You explain to us that the budgetary balance does not present any problems since the appropriations already existed. If the credits already existed, why did you stop liquidating what you owed the federated entities precisely because of the lack of credits? Your explanations are at least inconsistent. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. We rely heavily on the Court of Auditors to give us the answers you do not provide. I would like to be well aware that your policy, which cuts into social security and health care, cannot go hand in hand with a shortfall in funding for federated entities. I would like to say to the MR that you are also the accountant of Francophone interests and that on this subject you have not been up to date since the beginning of the legislature! [[Applause]] Besides, you're telling us there's no problem. But if you add credits that weren't planned in 2016, it means you're increasing the budget deficit for 2016, and you're also making it worse for 2017. Here too, there will be room for checking your budget trajectory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u93	Mr.President, Minister, we are surprised to learn of the Brussels government's decision to reduce, in early 2017, the E40 highway from two times six traffic bands to two times three bands. I know, of course, that this matter is a regional competence. Nevertheless, this is a purely political decision which tends to boost public transport. The motorway is being blocked and commuters will have to use public transport in this way. However, there is not yet sufficient public transport and not all commuters have access to the same transport. This may create chaos not only on the motorway or on the bis routes, but also on public transport. I'm thinking of railways, among other things. Since mobility and more precisely the fluidity of traffic are one of the factors for attracting investors, implementing such a decision is synonymous with a decline in growth, which would be a good thing. In addition, the project wants to create additional public services and, here, I wonder what we are going to finance them with. The Brussels Region is the cornerstone between the Walloon Region and the Flemish Region. One focuses its entire economy on planes that do not work and the other that develops so much and more the short circuit and, therefore, the transport. At the centre of these diametrically opposed economic approaches, the political authorities decide to create a gully. While no measures are taken to fluidize traffic, such as control of buffer cars on the middle traffic band, reduction of truck traffic density at peak times, or simple road infrastructure improvements, the absorption of traffic flow will also be reduced. So, do we really want this country's economy to recover? With such decisions, I'm not sure. Minister, my questions are very simple. On behalf of your colleague, Mr Bellot, will you try to influence this counter-productive measure for our economy by seeking consultation between the federal government and the federated entities? Are you able to increase the supply of public transport services in order to absorb the surplus of potential commuters? Finally, incidentally, with your colleague from the Interior, are you going to think about correct measures to fluidise motorway traffic, especially on the two Walloon axes to our capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is on behalf of my absent and apologised colleague that I would like to reply to you. As you have pointed out, this measure falls within the competence, in this case regional, of the government of the Brussels-Capital Region. My colleague, François Bellot, deplores the decision taken for several reasons. On the one hand, mobility needs are constantly increasing. One can see, on a daily basis, how difficult it is to move around. The cities of Brussels and Antwerp are already among the most bottled cities in Europe. This decision will therefore only exacerbate road congestion. On the other hand, the cost of traffic jams is known. It is economic and environmental. In terms of health, the OECD as BECI has quantified it. The numbers are impressive. François Bellot regrets that this decision or proposal for a decision was announced without any form of structured communication to citizens, users and businesses, thus further increasing the chaos for our economy as well as for citizens. My colleague regrets that this decision was taken without any consultation at a time when the Executive Council of Ministers for Mobility has met several times and that important decisions have been taken by my colleague with regard to modal shift in particular with a view to reducing road congestion through, among other things, the preparation of the 2017 transport plan and the increase in the supply of trains, particularly in the Brussels Region. Brussels is not an island. My colleague therefore deeply regrets that this consultation has not been carried out, especially since the offer of mobility is, today, around or in Brussels, in the context of the proposals on the table, which are under development, particularly as regards supply S. These are the reasons why François Bellot asked the Minister of Mobility of Brussels to organize an urgent meeting of the Executive Council of Ministers of Mobility so that the whole of this decision can be, if confirmed, exposed and concerted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u95	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I knew this subject was regionalized, but I wanted to demonstrate the absurdity of regionalization of Mobility. We find ourselves here in this case – please, ladies and gentlemen! – with four ministers to deal with the matter. Minister, winter is coming, and it is not uncommon for a snow and ice excavator to stop where the border of the Region ends, leaving a clear part and another that is not. It's not very serious! I believe that re-establishing this subject would be a way of having a more global view and would solve the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u96	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a trend that is emerging on a global scale: the world of work is changing. We already know that tomorrow's jobs will have nothing to do with those of today. The extraordinary and even exceptional advances in the fields of new technologies and digital technology will lead to the creation of many professions and at the same time offer unlimited access to knowledge as well as greater flexibility in the world of work. Generation Y, which is also affected by this evolution, wants to give its impetus. She is also anxious to give real meaning to her career. Entrepreneurship is on the rise. The start-up spirit is in full swing. On entrepreneurship, an Amway report stated that Belgium had significantly increased its entrepreneurial capital in 2015. On the other hand, another good news came from a very recent study by SD Worx, which reported that the SME employment index was setting a new record for the third consecutive quarter, rising by 0.39% between the second and third quarters. For example, more than 25,000 jobs have been created in SMEs since the beginning of the year. All these good results, Minister, are certainly to be linked with the measures you have taken in favour of SMEs and the self-employed. I come to my questions. What do you intend to do to amplify this trend? What do you think are the priority issues? Amway's study shows that women's entrepreneurship is growing, but that it could grow further. Apparently, some women are still hampered by a lack of self-confidence and skills. How do you think we could address these specific points?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, something important is happening for employment in SMEs. Not exclusively in SMEs, but I would like to draw your collective attention to these two indicators. The first is SD Worx, an independent indicator which tells us that in the last quarter we reached the peak in terms of employment rates, employment growth in SMEs. Rather, consider: the sector is experiencing a 1.4% increase in employment in SMEs in just three quarters, with the net creation of 24,500 jobs. Amway's reports are regularly read. It's his seventh delivery. For the entrepreneurship indicator, our country has increased by three places in the space of one year: 80% of Belgians now declare themselves in favour of entrepreneurship, or have a positive inclination for it. These major elements concern us and are of interest to us all for the future. Mr Friart, how can we proceed in the same direction? How can we allow this movement, and I am talking about movement, registered in the employment of SMEs? Audacity is needed in order to take a number of complementary measures. It is well known that reasonable and balanced adjustments to the labour market, the revision of the 1996 Act, provisions that strengthen the status of self-employed persons and new provisions allowing groups of employers, would go in this direction. We are waiting for the report of the social partners by the end of the year, but I also call for a reintroduction of the test clause. This will have to be balanced for workers and for companies that enter into open-ended contracts. And then, I end by saying that there are also target groups where there are real deposits of capabilities and potential for activities. We have worked hard on the student's status. Thank you for your unanimous support. We will also work together on diversity entrepreneurship in particular and continue to take a number of measures to develop female entrepreneurship. I believe that, in addition to cross-cutting measures, a number of targeted measures concerning groups and sectors contribute in any case to the scale of this movement, which we must all welcome together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u98	Minister, thank you for this information and for the measures you will continue to take. You're listening to the independents. You're listening to SMEs. We know that independents and SMEs are the backbone of our country's economy. It is certainly through the self-employed and SMEs that employment can be developed in the future, which will ensure better social security for all workers in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u99	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group is a cool lover of the further use of nuclear energy. We debated this at a somewhat later date yesterday, Mrs Temmerman. We had no choice but to have this legislature, otherwise we would have to turn off the lights tonight. We won't do that! We have agreed to extend the operation of the power stations, but on very clear terms. We felt that there should be a federal energy transition fund, which would be used effectively to work on a real energy transition. I was therefore pleased to see that, at Flemish level, all parties, over majority and opposition, have jointly drawn up a resolution in which they face the climate challenge in a very ambitious way. It is not just about energy, but also about many other issues. It's actually a very interesting piece of work. The question I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, is the following. I read in that document that people want to consult with the federal government about a number of measures. We want a federal energy policy that is complementary to what is stated in the note. One refers to the mobility budget, a theme that is on the table here. There is also a reduction in VAT on climate-friendly investments, on energy investments in federal buildings and on transport tax measures. Madam Secretary, have you taken note of that document? Do you have a first reaction to that? What about Wallonia and Brussels, because you were waiting for a clear vision from the Regions before coming up with a coherent vision at federal level? Can you move on? Can you give us a concrete timing? The energy transition fund must be stopped with the nuclear interest rate. How's that gonna go? What will you do with that? How exactly will you deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a very ambitious climate plan for the future has been drawn up in the Flemish Parliament over the majority and opposition. You read it. It is very ambitious and really means a trend break. Even the N-VA has confirmed that it will respect the decision of the core exit, which is legally established. Mr Lachaert is satisfied with that, and so are we, Madam Minister. However, we are aware that this is not so simple in our country when climate decisions are made. I do not need to remind you of the previous discussions on the division of effort. Seven years we have done so. This means that if Flanders wants to live up to its ambitions, it will have to get the support of the federal level and probably also of the other regions. Mr Lachaert has just said that the note contains a number of proposals which actually relate to federal powers, including VAT rates for climate-friendly investments. Madam Minister, if you want to apply these alternatives to transport, you will have to invest more in SNCB, which the government does not do at all, on the contrary, Mr Lachaert. For example, there are other federal energy measures, for which the Flemish Government and the Flemish Parliament, which adopted the resolution in question, will have to negotiate with you. Firstly, have you taken note of the resolution? You have already replied positively. Secondly, what suggestions are you prepared to follow? In what way will you go in consultation with your colleagues in Flanders? What specific measures can you propose? Finally, what exactly is the state of play with regard to your interfederal energy vision? If we really want to bring about the energy transition and make our ambitions in this area real, I am convinced that the other regions share the same ambitions, then you, as Minister, will have to work a little faster and not drag on for seven years, as was the case in the past. Madam Minister, I hope that you will be as ambitious as your Flemish colleagues and will come up with very concrete measures and implement them in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u101	As Mr Lachart rightly pointed out yesterday, the government was faced with a critical supply security situation when it took office. It has drawn up a short, medium and long-term scenario whereby Belgium can ensure an affordable and sustainable supply of electricity. This scenario meets our objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, the government immediately decided to extend the production of the plants Objective 1 and 2 without calling into question the date of the nuclear exit in 2025. That decision is based on several GEMIX expert reports. The extension is enshrined in the Law of 28 June 2015. On the basis of a study by Elia on security of supply and the need for adequacy and flexibility for the years 2017-2027, the government will table in the coming days on the benches of parliament a draft law on demand management and the flexibility requirements necessary to accompany the gradual increase in renewable energies. I would like to point out the federal effort to develop our offshore wind capabilities. I have also read the far-reaching resolution of the Flemish Parliament, which, on all sides, foresees very ambitious challenges in this area within the powers of the Region. This will enable us, at Belgian level, to ensure that work on the 2030 Energy-Climate Plan can be finalised in consultation with the Regions. Each Region had asked me, after the agreement on burdensharing – the legal text reflecting the political agreement reached on 11 October – to resume work. I meet the Brussels Region on Monday. I will obviously meet with the Flemish Region, given the resolution on the Flemish vision that has been adopted. I haven't heard from the Walloon Region yet. I could have spoken with the Regions this morning on the 25th anniversary of CONCERE (or ENOVER in Dutch) which is the forum for consultation between the Federal and the Regions on energy policy. This body operates within the framework of institutional reforms to establish precisely the concertation and energy policy. I regret that the Regions did not think it was right to be represented on this occasion, where many entrepreneurs, the CEO of the FEB, and the representatives of the administrations concerned were present. It seems to me that consultation and coordination are absolutely necessary so that we can, as called for in the Flemish resolution, find a federal plan which is complementary to that of the Regions and vice versa, in order to conclude the energy pact which will bring us slowly towards the energy transition and the passage through a great shift, namely the fact of leaving nuclear energy in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u102	Mr President, Minister, let me outline the history. At the beginning of the current legislature, we had a problem of security of supply. We have supported your policy of extending a number of reactors. However, that support did not come for nothing. On behalf of my group, I would once again urge an energy vision, otherwise we will not succeed in the design by 2025. There really needs to be an interfederal energy vision now, including with the various regions. And we're running out of time. Mr Nollet, we understand each other. I welcome the encouraging signal to the people of Flanders that the Flemish Parliament will do so across party boundaries, across the boundaries of opposition and majority. Madam Minister, I urge you to take control of the regions that are still lagging behind. Show that you are serious about coming out with an interfederal pact, otherwise we will not achieve our goal by 2025. Secondly, give substance to the energy transition fund, which we are eating with nuclear interest. Give that fund a content and framework within that vision in the coming year. As you know, I will continue to knock on that nail on behalf of my group, because that is our will. We support the extension of the reactors, but we are linking them to an energy vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u103	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, but you did not reassure me at all. We have already decided on these matters a number of times in the past, but each time we had to take other decisions, especially on the extension of nuclear power. I do not agree with Mr Lachaert at all. We had that discussion yesterday. I do not agree that Objective 1 and Objective 2 should be extended for our energy supply. Elia proves it wasn't. Madam Minister, if you do not succeed in setting up the energy transition together with the Regions, you will certainly have a problem by 2025. So I ask you to prepare the transition now and not to put you away behind all those who weren't there. It's your responsibility. You have now decided to leave in 2025. You must therefore ensure that we are able to carry out this trip.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u104	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, following your jurisdictional difficulties in the case of the Princess Elizabeth Polar Foundation, here is a new proof of what the government, at your initiative, has ventured on a very slippery terrain, also with regard to the fate reserved for the former chairman of the Scientific Policy SPF Steering Committee, Mr Mettens. I know that this has already been discussed in committee earlier this week. You were aware, at that time, of the decisions of the Council of State. I believe that you quickly considered that they did not in the end threaten your risky legal construction with regard to Mr Mettens' succession. As I read the decisions of the Council of State, I still advise you to be much more cautious. One of these judgments clearly states that "Mr. Delcourt could not be appointed on a temporary basis by default of comparison of titles and merits". But more fundamentally, a second ruling states that "the change of rules to assess the weighting to designate a chairman of the management committee had been made without respecting the famous royal decree of 11 July 2001", if I remember correctly. You are therefore almost certain that you lose the appeal brought by Mr Mettens with regard to the final appointment of Mr Delcourt. Therefore, your systematic undertaking to dismantle the florets of this country's cultural and scientific policy and its international reach must be stopped. My first point is to call on the MR to finally assume his responsibility not to settle political accounts but to have the courage to stand up. Madam Secretary of State, I ask you a simple question. Given the legal uncertainty that weighs on your decisions, do you agree to suspend any restructuring of the Science Policy FPS as long as you do not know the outcome of the last resort pending before the Council of State? It would be not only legal wisdom, but also budgetary prudence, so as not to have to pay heavy compensation to the one you have probably evicted completely illegally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u105	Mr Maingain, as regards Mr Mettens, on Tuesday, 22 November 2016, the Council of State delivered three judgments. The concrete consequences are that, in the immediate future, nothing changes. The cancellation of Mr Delcourt's appointment as President ad interim remains ineffective. He has been appointed in the meantime as President and will remain so for the time being. If the Council of State decides to cancel its appointment in the coming months, the selection procedure will have to be repeated. Where appropriate, an ad interim president shall be appointed. You're saying I'm dismantling the florets of science policy. I will tell you that we had a budget of more than 11 million euros last year to buy equipment, renovate rooms and organize exhibitions. We have a new EDF-tWIN programme covering 125 researchers for a period of seven years from 2018. Scientists will work part-time for FSEs. The next-generation BRAIN programme will be launched in 2018. Its reform will take place within a neutral budgetary framework. In view of the imminent creation of an inter-federal agency and the renovation of the ESFs, it is forbidden to claim that I dismantle the flagships of scientific policy. That's wrong. As evidence, I will ask you to observe the achievements I have made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u106	Madam Secretary of State, I will reply quite briefly. It is not because water buckets in museums have become bigger that you have a new policy! [[Applause]] That's the reality! As for the surplus, we must ask ourselves why the academic world, the industrial world, the scientific world are calling for policies to say that the measures you are taking lead to the dismantling of Belgium's capacity for radiation in the space and cultural fields. Obviously, you answer in an anecdotal way, without wanting to ask you the real questions, because you simply implement the program of your party! What is unfortunate is that others let you do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u107	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u108	Mrs Onkelinx asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u109	Mr President, since there are serious legal uncertainties regarding the draft law on the processing of passenger data and the need to find a response to the European Commission's inquiries, I am tabling two amendments for which I am seeking the opinion of the Council of State. One of the amendments was signed by almost all opposition groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u110	Mr. Speaker, indeed, we have co-signed one of these two amendments because I believe that there is also confusion that could slip into clause 29 of the bill before us. We would like the opinion of the Council of State. You know that our group, once again, supported this bill. It seems to us that we must be able to give a signal. It was a request from the European Union, but here, precisely, it is the European Commission that warns us and tells us that we are moving in scattered order on some of the elements of this bill. We wish to hear these questions from the European Commission. We wish, of course, to move forward but not until we have heard the arguments of the European Commission or verified that we are working properly on the NRP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received two amendments (Nos 9 and 10). In order for the request for an opinion to be discussed, the support of 30 members is required. Apparently, there are many more than thirty who support her. As far as the Council of State is concerned, 50 members must support this request. We shall proceed to a vote by sitting and lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u112	This suspends the discussion of Bill No. 2069.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Dierick, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2083/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2083/4) The draft law has 156 articles. The bill has 156 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Friart, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2084/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2084/3) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Smaers, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u120	Mr President, Minister, excuse me for telling you, but the devil is sometimes in the details! From the time a text is examined in committee to the time when the report is reread and the texts are examined, a number of elements may appear. Indeed, the bill is intended to extend the jurisdiction of the Accounting Standards Commission (CNC) to allow it to formulate formal rules for companies regarding the application of the specific provisions of accounting law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u121	I would like to return, Minister, to the mission of the new College, which will be set up and which is to respond, through individual decisions under accounting law,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u122	Colleagues, please! The point is not to point out that I am temporarily replacing the President. But many of you have conciliabules. It is not respectful of the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I would like to go back to a few points. In committee, you have indicated that you have consulted with the Accounting Standards Commission for the presentation of this draft. However, it would appear that this is not the case and that only its chairman has been consulted on the drafting of this bill and that no formal opinion has emerged from the Commission itself. I regret that the communication on this issue is not transparent. You did it that way. The Commission as such did not deliver an opinion, but the President of the Commission did so personally. I would like to come back to two specific clauses on this bill. Minister, I tabled two amendments in plenary. In your explanatory statement and presentation of the bill, you do not mention the anonymity that you are going to seek from the college that you set up, as set out in section 3, § 7, paragraph 2, and there is no justification for that fact in the commentary to the articles. The fact that this Commission can deliver opinions anonymously is a bit special. In other committees, the composition of the commissioners is known. In other institutions, we know who will deliver an opinion, a judgment (for example, at the judicial level). Here, the composition is not required. Even in the report on this draft, which is to be forwarded to Parliament, the composition of this Commission is not explained. This is, in my view, somewhat disturbing. We don't know the ones by whom the notice will be given. It is known that the role of this Commission is to determine the interpretation of the application of the law in the applicant's case. Not knowing the identity of the applicant is one thing. However, from the moment a commission is required to deliver an opinion, it is still interesting to know its composition. I would like to draw your attention to one point. The article presented here is quite paradoxical in that, if the objective pursued is anonymity, it is lost in advance, Minister. A member of the College of the Accounting Standards Commission must be a member of the College of Directors of the Advance Tax Rulings Service of the FPS Finance. Everyone knows the composition of this college. I wanted to draw your attention to this point, which is why I tabled an amendment. In addition, Minister, we are facing a somewhat troubling situation as you completely change the composition of the CNC with your bill. In fact, there is a question of the resignation of all the Commissioners on their own initiative, since they will not be taken over again, the whole being amended. On the other hand, everyone knows that to make such a commission (consultation of opinion committees, various inquiries, etc.) 8 to 12 months are required. In any case, this was the case during the previous legislature. There is a risk that the case law will be disturbed in the context of this representation. I have tabled another amendment, in order not to sanction or resign the members of this Commission on their own initiative. It will allow you, if you wish, to introduce one or the other member for the college, outside the supplementary committee, for the duration of the transition. You will find in the amendment which is on your bench this text explaining this dimension. It aims to avoid varying opinions and case law. Admit it's tricky to change the whole thing. If I can afford the comparison, it is as if we were changing all the directors of the National Bank, or all the commissioners of one or the other of the institutions, at once, without guaranteeing the continuation of the activities. Mr.Minister, I am critical of your bill on these two points, which I have received ex post facto. I have tabled two amendments, and I also suggest that the majority follow them. It is indeed a question of knowing the people who are going to give opinions. Anonymity is not a good policy. It runs counter to the transparency and clarity of decisions. To dismiss a number of Commissioners, or all Commissioners, on their own initiative in order to be able to rename them afterwards, does not appear to me to be relevant or useful in the context of this Commission. The Commission will deliver opinions. These notices, if applied, will also be followed up on taxation and corporate tax matters. I absolutely wanted to stress these two elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u124	Mr President, we have had an extensive debate in committee. A lot of questions have been asked. As usual, I have also given some answers. The first element is very important to me. I hope he is, too, for Mr. de Lamotte. Since its establishment, the Accounting Standards Commission has often received from companies, accounting experts or accountants, the tax authorities and auditors specific questions concerning the correct application of accounting law. In 2013, for example, the CNC was seized 177 times of this type of issue, in 2014, 110 times and in 2015, 195 times. This means that there is now a great demand for ad hoc opinions with ad hoc questions. We want to organise this practice better. The second point I would like to highlight concerns the issue of the College. A limited number of members of the CBN will form the College together with the President. And I said very clearly that the royal decree will precede the composition of the college. The Royal Decree will therefore determine very clearly who is in that College. You referred to it, Mr de Lamotte, and I have also given a little more text and explanation about its composition. The Royal Decree will determine them further, but a composition of the College is envisaged from a member designated by the Minister of Economy, a member designated by the Minister of Finance, a member designated by the Minister of Justice and a member designated by the Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. This limited group allows to respond quickly and efficiently to the concrete application of the CBN opinions in specific situations. At least one member is also a member of the College which is responsible for the management of the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters. I have also given this information in committee. Finally, here's one more thing. Individual opinions are subsequently published, but their anonymity is assured. This publication seems to me to be a good thing, because we want to implement the accounting rules as correctly and as clearly as possible. It has been practice for many years that the Accounting Standards Commission provides general advice. Concrete, individual opinions, referred to by our IBBs, make it even clearer and will have even more effect in practice. I think I have explained the amendments and I hope they are not necessary. In conclusion, in my previous working life, I have been a member of the Committee on Accounting Standards for many years and I know how it works. The former President, who unfortunately passed away, would be very pleased to see this achieved after so many years. This question has been asked for years. I therefore hope that today we will finally be able to give a concrete answer by adopting this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u125	Mr President, as the minister said, the number of interventions is increasing. That is why I believe that there is a need for a precise and fixed framework in terms of publicity and case law on this Accounting Standards Commission. I wanted to insist on this and I maintain the amendments as they have been tabled. This seems to me to be more effective in the text than in a Rules of Procedure or a statement in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u126	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u127	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2090/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2090/4) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Code of Economic Law as regards the competence of the Accounting Standards Committee." The title has been changed by the committee to "draft law amending the Code of Economic Law, with regard to the competence of the Accounting Standards Commission". The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u128	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u129	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Egbert Lachaert, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u130	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the posting of workers is twenty years old. It was born in 1996 in the context of a Europe of fifteen, at a time when wage differentials varied from one to three between countries with neighbouring social norms. Today we are twenty-seven or twenty-eight – I don't know what I have to say – while the wage gap varies from one to ten. So the situation has clearly changed. In this respect, we see an awareness at European level. I am against the directive on public procurement, which is a real step forward in getting out of the dictatorship of the lowest price, as well as the implementing directive that we are transposing today, but with a little delay. It is, of course, imperfect, because we would have liked to see a pure and simple revision of the original directive. However, it provides anti-dumping tools. These two directives give us weapons to strengthen control and to ensure a chain of solidarity responsibility for the wrongdoing companies. Yet these two weapons, you, the minister and your government, have decided to load them blank. Firstly, the transposition of the public procurement directive still leaves the choice of the lowest price. We discussed it a few weeks ago: what a missed opportunity! Secondly, your draft transposition today is presented in the same direction; you are not going far enough. Why? Because you are planning, first of all, a joint responsibility, which, however, risks being only an empty shell, limited to the construction sector and contourable. I explained the reasons in committee. Secondly, there is no provision for secondments via the interim agencies, although we know that they serve as a gateway to social dumping. Finally, you do not allow a trade union to be brought to justice without the consent of posted workers, even if their rights are not respected. Minister, the situation in Belgium is serious. The construction, cleaning and transportation sectors are calling for relief. It can no longer be said that it is simply Europe's fault. Efforts have been made and the Commission has decided to maintain its draft revision of the 1996 directive despite the yellow card of many Eastern countries. The European Parliament is also preparing a report with two co-rapporteurs representing the two largest political groups. This shows that the problem transcends parties and that the survival of the European project is at stake. And Europe is not just moving. Wallonia has developed an anti-dumping guide. Local authorities have taken initiatives to combat social dumping in practice. In Herstal, for example, where the slogan Equal pay for equal work was born, we were the first to launch an anti-dumping burden in public procurement with the setting up of a platform to measure its effects. Our initiative has spread to several cities and municipalities. I would also like to highlight the initiative of the city of Ostend, which requires compliance with the minimum wage in force in Belgium for its tenders. The only thing left is the federal government that doesn't seem to be measuring the scourge. Minister, you had the opportunity to respond to concrete dumping situations with this bill. Amendments have been tabled. You didn't follow. You are not up to the challenge for our country, which has more than 200,000 posted workers. Your government has already missed a good opportunity with the law transposing the "Public Procurement" Directive. You're starting over here again. Minister, the federal government must be more proactive. Stop the low cost workers. Stop the robbers. Stop social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u131	The transposition of the European Directive will lead to better controls and communication between Member States, more transparent information for workers and clearer procedures. We can only welcome this, and that is why we will of course support the transposition. In fact, I incorporated its content in a resolution a few months ago, in which we call on the government to combat social dumping. I am therefore pleased that the text contains measures to combat social dumping. We naturally support the principle of free movement in the European Union: it must remain possible to work in another European country. However, we find a lot of abuses. The fact that social contributions have to be paid in the country of origin and that no or less social contributions are imposed there is, of course, a serious competitive disadvantage, for example, for our Belgian construction companies. Another phenomenon is that our wage and working conditions are not respected, because we work with mailbox companies that send workers to Belgium. This avoids the obligation to pay social contributions in our country. The transposition of the directive should improve its monitoring and we can only welcome that. Social dumping in which workers and employers suffer from exploitation or unfair competition must of course be eliminated. Flemish SMEs in the construction sector lose contracts on the assembly line, mainly because, for example, foreign and Belgian construction companies engage foreign subcontractors and do not respect all the rules of the game. Better liability, as set out in the directive, will further limit abuses. That too is a good thing. European Commissioner Thyssen is working on a new package of measures that is part of the so-called mobility package. This will enable us to take further steps. Today, we are taking a very important step towards solving a number of social problems, which we are also fighting against social dumping. We hope that, once the mobility package has been adopted after the debate at European level, we will be able to take further steps. That is why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the transposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u132	Mr President, I agree with my colleague Frédéric Daerden that once again we have missed an opportunity to take clear and unavoidable measures against social dumping. This was the case at the time of transposition of the public procurement directive. I believe that I will never be able to accept that you have kept the lowest price as a single criterion by trying to make us believe that you want to fight against social dumping. You had to put the obligation to integrate social and environmental criteria! We have here a directive which allows the Member States to transpose it with varying degrees of severity and precision. Minister, here too, you have decided to adopt the minimum version of what was contained in this directive. In the bill you are submitting to us, however, there are provisions that can only be supported, for example, to allow the monitoring of working conditions through inspection services, to have requirements for proof of existence of a contract, of a number of hours worked, of payment of wages, to have a liaison person designated by the detaching employer. These measures are necessary and, in the same way, there is an obligation to respect the remuneration of workers, so that a national worker and a posted worker have the same remuneration. At the same time, however, it is also foreseen that if the subcontractor undertakes to pay the worker, there will be no sanction since this written undertaking is sufficient to limit the penalties, which are indispensable in this type of contract between companies in Belgium, companies outside Belgium and displaced workers, who are obviously deprived of the presence of these companies which employ them. The bill also wants to remove so-called "letter boxes" companies and to do so, it is specified that the secondment will have to be temporary and the company characterized by substantial activities. The time limit for these temporary activities is not defined in the bill. Here too, there were amendments, discussions in committee, an opinion of the National Labour Council, which suggested that the duration should be six months renewable. It is a pity that this is not more precise in the law and that you have contented yourself with the adjective "temporary". There must be substantial activity. Criteria define the latter, which is a good thing. But you consider acting agencies to be companies that have substantial activities and therefore fall within the scope of remuneration rules, document obligations to be provided, etc. Except that, when we come to the chapter on joint and several liability, this joint and several liability concerns only construction companies, only future debts and only direct subcontracting and not the whole chain of subcontractors. I attended the first committee meeting, but unfortunately not the one on the articles, given the simultaneous holding of the Health Committee. I understood then that the temporary agencies were actually involved, since they temporarily detached workers and had a substantial activity. But this substantial activity is not part of the construction sector. However, workers from these agencies may be hired by construction companies. Provisions relating to the construction sector may therefore not apply, in particular in the relations between the detaching employer and the undertaking employer, in view of this difference in the sector of activity. Minister, could you clarify how and how an acting agency is affected when working with construction companies? As a Liegeois, I have been, on several occasions, impressed by the ability of the Chamber of Construction of Liège to mobilize itself on this fight against social dumping and in favour of the protection of construction companies. Its members have repeatedly called upon you. They came. They proposed adjustments to the provisions, both at the time of the discussions on public procurement and both of these provisions, so that you would remove the 14-day time limit following notification of inspections, when joint and several liability takes effect. They also contacted you and made suggestions to you expressing their concerns: what is a remuneration? What is the minimum wage? What is an income that allows a worker to live in dignity here in our country, and not in dignity in their country of origin? Despite these demands and their spontaneous collaboration to protect employment in the construction sector, it must be noted that they have not been followed up. The disappointment is great in their leader. When we announce that we want to protect a sector, and that we accuse this sector of being responsible for malfeasance and non-compliance with social legislation in the hands of some of its members, we fail to take into account the comments and concrete proposals that they make and which are in line with the directive, it is a lack of responsibility on the part of a Minister for Employment and on the part of a government that wants to combat social dumping. Mr. Minister, this is annoying. Indeed, it is a directive and a legislative amendment that make it possible to move forward. They are limited to one sector and have the limits I have just outlined. They are confronted with a transport sector which is also screaming for similar arrangements to be made, and which will only be taken into account in one year's time when the law is evaluated. We are faced with a project that presents progress, a project that could have been so good, but which is only minimal. So we cannot fully support this bill. Unfortunately, we must abstain, although we would have really liked to support an ambitious project to combat social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u133	Mr President, I would like to support most of Mr Lanjri's argument. We support any measure that makes the free European labour market a fairer labour market. That is also the message we gave to the Deputy Prime Minister in committee. We are in favour of paying posted workers to wage and working conditions as is the case with local workers. As far as we are concerned, the debate on the period of secondment should be held here. How long does that deadline have to take? What about the social security principle? Only when progress is made or change is made in both areas will we achieve a level playing field in the true sense of the word. Posting is not an opportunity for us to engage in social dumping, but is a means of temporary employment for workers with specific knowledge and expertise without many obstacles. This transposition of an EU directive into Belgian law is a small step towards better control of a fair labour market. We will therefore support this bill with conviction. I would like to make a small remark, which I have already formulated to the vice-premier on the committee. It concerns the joint and several liability contained in the text. We reaffirm the position we have taken in the past. We have no problem with joint and several liability if good faith is taken into account, and that is the case here. An sich is therefore not a problem, but one cannot ignore the fact that this form of joint and several liability is new and can possibly make it complex. We have informed the Deputy Prime Minister that it would be useful to provide for follow-up and evaluation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u134	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the fight against social dumping is a priority for my group and I am therefore pleased that this project is coming to our table. The philosophy that emerges from the text can be summarized in four directions. The first is aimed initially at protecting the best interests of a worker from a European Union country to Belgium. If a worker is in dispute with his or her former employer for breaches of the secondment regulations, he or she will no longer be able to suffer any harm from his or her new employer in the future. The second axis also aims at better monitoring of working conditions for posted workers. Thus, the text makes a series of provisions that will make it possible to fight more effectively against false independents or letter-box companies. In practical terms, inspectors will have the possibility, during any field inspection, to require a series of documents from the liaison person to determine whether the secondment is carried out under conditions of fair competition or not. The third axis also imposes a specific regime of joint and several liability of the co-contractor in the construction sector. Finally, the fourth axis implements the system of administrative penalties and fines applied at European level. It must be admitted that the application of sanctions has so far been difficult to establish. From now on, Belgium will be able to recover by itself the amount of the penalties and fines imposed. That's a good thing. It is important to recall here that the social partners have once again been consulted. In fact, the government has taken into account the views of the partners in the text, the various comments made and later we will come with a specific text for transport. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, my political formation is very attached to the values of freedom, in particular the movement of persons and services. We are in favour of secondment, but we are against detachment fraud. It is therefore essential for us that this be done in a context of fair competition. For me, this project is a step in the right direction. This is a small step forward in the fight against social dumping, as it will ensure better working conditions for posted workers and further combat the exploitation of human beings. However, as I have already put it in committee, the text could have gone further, particularly in relation to the problem of Dutch interim companies, which account for almost 30% of the fraud on secondment. In this regard, I have no doubt that the matter can be revisited at a later stage. On the other hand, Minister, there are three very positive elements to be highlighted. First, you made a commitment to conduct an evaluation in a year's time. I am confident that during this evaluation we will be able to make the necessary adjustments. Secondly, as I have already had the opportunity to tell you, the government is committed to a specific shift tax for construction. It is several hundred million that are planned for this sector that has not benefited from the tax shift like the other sectors. I have no doubt that this tax shift construction can be achieved in the years to come. Finally, last but not least, we all know that Commissioner Thyssen has in her boxes a draft "Mobility package" directive. I hope that it will be able to obtain support at European level from a range of countries which, unfortunately, see negative sources. I have no doubt that Mrs Thyssen will be able to conclude on this project, which we obviously support. For these reasons, the MR Group will support the text proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u135	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this draft in detail in committee. My intervention will therefore be quite brief. Our group has tabled amendments in committee, in my view very good ones, which have unfortunately been voted away. Minister, I have read Mr De Coninck's explanatory statement and your reply. However, I was not entirely convinced by your answer. We therefore retable the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, other speakers have already said that the fight against tax and social fraud is extremely important. This subject is also dealt with in various committees. I really believe that it has become very difficult in many sectors to survive as a bona fide entrepreneur. The water is often on these people's lips. This is actually detrimental to our entire economic system. If a bona fide employer goes down, it has an impact on employment for the people who work there but also on our social security system as contributions to fund the system are lost. So basically the whole society loses. That is why the sp.a is 100 percent opposed to these forms of fraud. Moreover, we see that crooked entrepreneurs exploit their employees in the most scandalous way. That is distressing and we see it in many sectors. It is therefore good for the legislator to try to combat this through legislation. There must also, of course, be sufficient control to implement the legislation. We also had a debate this week on the reform of the control services. We will not have that debate here; for us it is important that the reform ultimately leads to results in the field. We can still adopt as much legislation as we want here, it must also be applied in the field and its application must be monitored. Mr Minister, coming back to this draft law transposing the directive, my fundamental belief is that it is too minimalistic. The European Directive gave Member States more opportunities to combat social dumping. We regret that this is not the case in this minimalist transposition. Paradoxically, you do make maximum use of the minimum obligations set out in the directive. I am thinking, for example, of the notion of care. As a pure formality, I fear that we can all too easily escape joint and several liability. We have again tabled amendments, including on chain liability. You've explained, one by one. We think it's better to look at the whole chain. We believe, for example, that if the work performance cannot be proven as part-time, there must be a rebuttable presumption of full-time performance so that those concerned can be compensated. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a series of amendments to complete attendance registration with a time record. So far, my explanation of our amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u136	Minister, we have had debates in committee. Of course we are not going to do everything again here, but what I will remember is that your transposition text clearly lacks three essential ingredients: ambition, clarity and efficiency. However, these three ingredients are all the more essential in a dossier such as this one. I can't help but remember that a few seconds ago, a member of the majority didn't say much at all in the gallery. My colleague Clarinval, with whom I agree, except perhaps with a word in his sentence, said that "you could have gone further." I'm just saying you should have gone further. First of all on the form – and this is important because it concerns the sector of course – it must be remembered that the implementing directive had to be transposed by 18 June. Five months late, it's not commonplace. This is all the more problematic because it is a matter where job losses are daily and significant and this additional time has not been used to carry out comprehensive and ambitious work. My faith, you would have come with ambition and something strong about it, the five months were forgiven! With such a minimalist version and so much delay, I confess that it is quite incomprehensible. For an employer detaching workers in Belgium, the legislation applicable to posted workers is already extremely complex today. Far from solving this problem, this project aggravates it by adding a series of highly technical additional rules to the already nebulous cluster of existing regulations. A real lasagna! Layers and layers are added as, if only one is to be mentioned, the cumulation of legislation on joint and several liability. It's hard to find yourself there! It's not that much for foreign employers that I'm worried about, minister. Rather, I am aware – and I hope you have it as well – of the Arblade judgment since the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided that, I quote: "A Member State may impose on an undertaking established in another Member State and performing work temporarily in the first State to pay its posted workers the minimum remuneration laid down in the collective labour agreement applicable in the first Member State only if the provisions in question are sufficiently precise and accessible so as not to render, in practice, impossible or excessively difficult the determination by such an employer of the obligations which it should comply with". If these conditions are not met, the foreign employer will be able to avail himself of the lack of clarity. It will thus be able to escape compliance with the rules. That is, of course, what we should have avoided. Minister, since last week we have had new information. Indeed, the Secretary of State for the fight against social fraud explained to us yesterday in committee that the first flaw in the SWOT analysis carried out in the context of the reform of the social inspections concerned with dumping is the absence of a clear legal framework. He has, in a way, taught policy that we are pointing out the problematic complexity of legislation in this area. But, in the meantime, the government was trying to make legislation even more complex by means of multiple and fragmented texts rather than finally drawing up a law bringing together the bulk of the provisions imposed on posted workers, which is a great deal. I have drafted a number of amendments aimed at clarifying the legislation and, in particular, the concept of minimum wage, at ensuring certain compliance with Belgian working conditions, in particular sectoral scales, or at further combating social dumping, following on from Mrs Thyssen's proposal for a revision of the Detachment Directive on certain points. These amendments were rejected as a whole. I regret it and therefore reposition it today. Your project has many flaws and missed opportunities. I will take four examples. Firstly, why was the opportunity not taken to clarify the concept of "paid workers on secondment" not taken into account? This, of course, shows a lack of clarity. Secondly, why was the opportunity not taken to limit the duration of detachments not taken into account? This reflects a clear lack of ambition. Thirdly, why not take advantage of the opportunity to immediately extend the system of joint and several liability to other sectors? Indeed, the text refers only to the construction sector. Again, this is a sign of a lack of ambition. Fourthly, as far as joint and several liability is concerned, what grounds have led to the provision that joint and several liability cover only benefits made from the expiry of a period of fourteen days following notification by the Social Inspectorate? This provision makes it very easy to circumvent the rule. In addition, it removes the fear of the constable, if I can express myself that way. On the contrary, the directive allowed solidarity to take place immediately. You didn't make that choice. You have receded by allowing this period which is likely to also benefit bad faith entrepreneurs who would use it to put themselves in order in the meantime. It is clearly a lack of efficiency. As I have announced, I have tabled amendments to clarify the concept of'minimum wage for posted workers' in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and Marianne Thyssen's proposal of 8 March. Another amendment is to remove the fourteen-day deadline I have just mentioned. The next offers trade unions the opportunity to take legal action. In the current text, it is subject to the prior approval of workers. They obviously have no interest in it or fear reprisals. That is why I propose to amend the provision, so that their failure to react can be equated with an agreement. I have checked since then: other countries have practiced the same: France, to take just one example. All these amendments were rejected as a whole because of lack of ambition or perhaps simply stubbornness. It is always the small game majority against opposition. But yes, minister. I am telling you this very clearly on this file. Should we remind you of what Mr. Clarinval just said? No, maybe not. It was stupidly the small game of majority versus opposition. There was a text, and so we should not think, not ask ourselves questions, but move forward and vote. And then, members of the majority come to the rostrum to say that, on balance, it would have been much better to be much more ambitious. This is obviously the harsh law between the government and the parliament. This reminds me of my colleague Mr Eric Van Rompuy, who, quite rightly, spoke recently about how the government was moving forward on the budget and how it is taking Parliament into account. I thought he was right. He was also quickly put back in his place by his party president by exchanging tweets. Clearly, the same has happened for this text. It's just the majority! And so we don't ask ourselves any more questions: we vote, and the sooner it's done, the better! And so much so that, within the texts, there has been a lack of efficiency, clarity, ambition – it will be for later! It is always time to correct these flaws. I have resubmitted my amendments. It's not for the pleasure of pointing faults. But if you do not correct them, the employers who detach, especially those who are ill-intentioned, will not fail to get involved to the detriment of our companies – because it is particularly unfair competition – and also to the detriment of our workers, since jobs will be lost. Without these corrections, we will not be able to agree to this text and we will abstain. In conclusion, I would like to recall the very recent comments made by the Union of the Middle Classes. It pointed out that more than 20,000 jobs were lost in Belgium just in the construction and transport sector as a result of social dumping. The Union of the Middle Classes called on the Belgian State, Mr Minister, to go a long way and be much more effective in this area, but it also pointed out how it is the too lax rules that are responsible for the situation in which we are today. As you understand it, we shall abstain from this text unless, suddenly, the majority has decided to ask themselves a few questions. This text should have been much more ambitious and far more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u137	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by reminding you of what is obvious to me. This may not be the case for all colleagues. This is the fact that the competition of workers is the very essence of the European market. It is therefore no wonder that this phenomenon of social dumping is developing, which, unfortunately, is increasingly affecting the world of work. Hence the importance of having a good transposition of the European Directive in Belgium. However, I note with regret a lack of ambition – several colleagues have used these words – first of all in the European discussions on the directive. And then, we have been a step further in the lack of ambition when transposing the directive into Belgium. We totally miss what I think should be the goal, namely equal pay for equal work. The trade unions expressed their concern in particular about the limitation of the mechanism of joint and several liability: sectoral limitation since it is in the construction sector that the principle and also limitation with regard to the chain, the number of subcontracting levels are applied. In fact, we are limited to one or two levels without going beyond, while in practice we find that there are much larger subcontracting chains. This is therefore the subject of two of our amendments. A third amendment we are tabling is aimed at preventing abuses and circumventions. The competent authorities must know the relevant information on the secondment, such as the number of persons concerned, the identity of the service providers, the planned dates of start and end of secondment, before the secondment and not at the time of its commencement. A fourth amendment concerns the system of joint and several liability, which should be extended to all sectors, not just construction. Abuse and circumvention also occur in other sectors such as meat and tourism. Minister, unfortunately, we will not be able to support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u138	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we too will support this bill. It is the transposition of a directive at European level, it is the enforcement of Directive 96/71, which regulates postings at European level, to which our legislation has already been adapted. The European framework is, of course, what it is. We have seen in the past that a number of sectors have been affected by unfair competition, for example the transport sector. Today, too, the construction sector is a very alert sector, to have criteria and rules to prevent improper use of European constructions and to stop social dumping. Last year, on 23 July 2015, we adopted a resolution in the Chamber to strengthen the fight against social dumping. We do believe that this draft law, within the framework of what is possible at European level, provides a good balance to ensure that these postings are organised properly. In the construction sector there will be a chain liability for non-payment of wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is always saying that we could go even further. However, I think this is a wrong debate. For me, the success of that enforcement directive will largely depend on what a number of other EU Member States are doing. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, the problems with postings lie in the lack of cooperation with the inspection services of a number of Member States, which have been with the Union for a long time or for 10 to 15 years. A number of services simply do not communicate or fail to communicate with our inspection services, making it virtually impossible or difficult for our inspection services to verify correctly whether wages and social contributions have been paid. That is actually the essence of the problem. I hope that a real solution will be found in the European context. I also hope that the directive which provides for sanctions and fines if we do not work together will become a reality, because that is the real problem. If an inspection service has to check the wages here and he does not get the documents from the country of origin, then this is all paper and we are powerless. If nothing is done about this at European level, I fear that the support for European construction will be undermined. I therefore hope, together with the members of the opposition, that progress will be made on this issue at European level and that we can ensure that entrepreneurs and workers in our country who work in good faith are no longer disadvantaged by such constructions. Within this Belgian framework, however, we must also be careful. If one goes too far in chain liability with the construction sector, there is now a first shot at the bow, one must be careful that those who are in good faith and at the bottom of the chain do have the opportunity to check that something went wrong and that the rules were not properly respected. A balance has indeed been sought in the draft law before us. If it turns out that we could go further and that there would be a system in the long term that would make it possible to properly verify whether wages are paid anywhere in the chain and that they could be certified, then that is another matter. Today there is no such thing, and there is a risk that, if we go further, what some Members advocate, employers, subcontractors and main contractors who are in good faith will be punished. We don't want that. We want a fair balance to be struck. There has also been a whole debate in committee on the sanctions mechanism. Mrs Fonck, I will not start that debate again. We have spent enough time on this in committee. For the sake of the other Members, I will not do so. However, I am convinced that the Minister has made this point in committee, on the basis of a legal note, that non-payment of wages, for the sake of clarity, remains a crime to which criminal sanctions are linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u139	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my appreciation for all the speeches made, including those made at the committee meeting, because we want to tackle social dumping beyond the borders of majority and opposition. We are very ambitious in that. Any proposal, including the opposition, will be examined. We have responded very carefully to the amendments tabled by Mr Geerts and others, because we have appreciated each and every one of them. I would like to stress that, of course, we must also tackle social dumping at European level. In that sense, I agree with what Mr Lachaert has said. We must agree on directives and applications at European level between the different Member States and we must also be able to count on them being correctly applied in the different Member States. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we fully support the amendments proposed by Commissioner Marianne Thyssen on the Posting of Workers Directive. Mr Daerden, you recalled the very important principle: equal pay for equal work. That is a fundamental principle. On 8 December there will be an EPSCO Council and this will be discussed again. We hope that we will be able to make progress as soon as possible on the proposals for the adaptation of the Posting of Workers Directive. In addition, I believe that the European Member States should implement correctly what has already been agreed at European level. A number of speeches here are a repetition of what has already been discussed in committee. I understand that Mrs Gerkens asked for an explanation of the delay. I already gave them. Following a consultation of the social partners in the construction sector on the draft law, the National Labour Council was invited in December 2015 to issue an opinion. This opinion was not delivered until May 4, 2016. That explains the delay. We have given the social partners every opportunity to respond. Secondly, I would like to reiterate that the draft law opts for a new system of joint and several liability to the construction sector, as allowed by the directive. This also provides the opportunity to carry out an evaluation. The opinion of the National Labour Council expressly stated that this scheme should be applied to the construction sector in order to extend its scope after an evaluation after one year. However, we must be careful not to throw overboard existing systems of liability in other sectors too quickly. That is why we are providing for a step-by-step introduction, starting with the construction sector. There has also been extensive discussion in committee on the problem of temporary work. Several members have referred to the problems of Dutch temporary agency agencies. I would like to reiterate that these Dutch temporary agency offices fall within the scope of the rules on secondment. They can send employees to Belgium, provided that they carry out substantial activities in the Netherlands. As the secondment activities of Dutch temporary agency offices are extensive, the inspection services will closely monitor that they do not commit any posting fraud. For the rest, it is of course important that the Netherlands also applies the legislation correctly. If this happens, we will not be able to take action at European level at the moment. This is a repeat of the extensive discussion in committee. I assume that with this wording of the directive, we will make every effort to take further steps as quickly as possible, including at European level with regard to the Posting of Workers Directive. After a year's evaluation, we will extend this scheme to other sectors. Effectiveness in the field and tackling social dumping in the field must be the end result of all the legislative work we are doing here. I therefore call for this draft law to be adopted so that we can make that happen on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u140	Are there short replicas that bring added value?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u141	I am just saying, Mr President, that sometimes the same message should be delivered to the government because the surplus value is not provided for in the Rules, even if it is interesting!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u142	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u143	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2091/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (291/5) The draft law has 41 articles. The bill has 41 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the agenda. The working group setting up the parliamentary committee of inquiry, Kazakhgate, is completing its work. Time to let its members join us, I'm suspending the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u145	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u146	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u147	The Conference of Presidents of 23 November 2016 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of the members of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers' until 31 March 2017. The Conference of Presidents of 23 November 2016 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the term of office of the members of the Special Commission on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers until 31 March 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u148	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 November 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Anne Dedry, Mrs Ine Somers, Mr Els Van Hoof, Mr Rita Bellens, Mr Kattrin Jadin and Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Georges Dallemagne) on the Belgian Food Security Fund, No. 2171/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u149	- the legislative proposal (Mr Kristof Calvo) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, which partially transposes CD&V's position on value added tax, No. 2177/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u150	- the proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain and others) establishing a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the initiation and the circumstances which led to the adoption of the law of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions, to the amicable settlement in criminal matters made on 17 June 2011 and its ratification by the Court of Appeal in Brussels and to the adoption of the law of recovery of 11 July 2011 amending Articles 216a and 216b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and to determine the political responsibilities in this respect, No. 2179/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u151	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 November 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Anne Dedry, Ine Somers, Els Van Hoof, Rita Bellens, Kattrin Jadin and Muriel Gerkens and Mr Georges Dallemagne) on the Belgian Food Security Fund, No. 2171/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u152	- the draft law (Mr Kristof Calvo) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, partly transposing the CD&V's vision of capital gains taxation, No. 2177/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u153	- the proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain et al.) to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the incentives and circumstances leading to the adoption of the law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, the criminal transaction on 17 June 2011 and its validation by the Brussels Court of Appeal, the adoption of the restorative law of 11 July 2011 amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, and the determination of political responsibilities, No. 2179/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u154	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Does anyone ask for urgency about this last proposal? Does anyone ask the urgency of the last proposal considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u155	Mr President, our group has tabled a proposal which translates the CD&V Group's proposal on value added tax (No. 2177).................................................................................[.....................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u156	Excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u157	You don't know what I'm trying to say yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u158	I actually asked you to work a little systematically, if anyone asks for the urgency of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u159	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, no one is asking for the urgency of the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry? [[No, no, ……]] I take note of that. Mr Calvo, you can now speak on the other point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u161	The CD&V proposal on value added tax has been the subject of a very interesting and substantive debate. We note that it remains a knot for the majority. Our group also has a number of comments on the CD&V proposal, but since that proposal is the subject of an important political debate, I would ask you, as President of the Chamber, to send the proposal for an opinion to the Council of State. Then we can have a better view of its advantages and disadvantages, in view of the debates on fiscal justice in the coming weeks and months. Our group has adopted the CD&V proposal and submitted it as a legislative proposal, precisely in order to allow for an opinion of the Council of State and a calculation by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u162	Thus shall be done. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u163	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the transfer of ship registration and ship mortgage retention, No. 2151/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Regulations when the bill to transfer the registration of ships and the preservation of marine mortgages, No. 2151/1, was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the transfer of the ship's mortgage deposit to the FPS Mobility and Transport was launched following the imminent retirement of the current and sole ship's mortgage keeper. The latter has been retired since 1 November and his position is currently exercised by an interim. The recruitment of the final successor is in full swing, so that it can officially start with the FPS Mobility on 1 January 2017. However, this person cannot be appointed until the legal basis, the present draft law, has been adopted. In addition, all arrangements were made for the transfer of current employees and their files, which is scheduled for the end of December. In order to provide the staff with the necessary security, it is necessary to adopt the draft law as soon as possible. In this way the implementing decisions can also be adopted and this service can start as soon as possible and provide a good service for the Belgian shipping companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u165	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u166	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various health provisions, No. 2154/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on various health provisions was introduced, No. 2154/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u167	Mr President, the government is asking for urgent procedure for this draft for a number of reasons. Article 7 of the draft law justifies urgency because the savings measure contained in the article in question should save EUR 16.3 million in 2017. When the law is published in the Belgian Official Journal and therefore the amendment of the law enters into force after 31 December 2016, the savings cannot be fully realised. The urgency of the provisions of Articles 79 to 88 is justified by the need to transpose European Directives 2015/565/EU and 2015/566/EU into Belgian law as soon as possible. The deadline for transposition was October 2016 and has therefore already expired. In addition, the legal basis for the system for the organisation of the self-sufficiency of plasma derivatives in Articles 76 to 78 of the draft law should be revised before 31 December 2016. That is the date on which the transitional period provided for in Article 20 (1) of the Law of 5 July 1994 expires. The adapted system should allow the launch of the European public procurement in 2017. Finally, it is necessary to amend the mechanism, whereby the medical devices industry finances the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, by 31 December 2016, in order to enable the surplus to be used for the benefit of the sector, as set out in Article 65.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u168	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u169	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on November 16, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 16 November 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 169/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Ine Somers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 169/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Ine Somers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u170	Mr President, we were many to ask the Minister in Committee on Health about the coming into force, the scope of the articles and the content of the transitional measures relating to the law concerning psychologists, orthopedagogues and the exercise of psychotherapy. The Minister's responses did not meet our expectations. Therefore, the motion that I tabled asks the government to clarify the terms that are contained in the sections relating to this transitional period for people who today do not meet all the conditions required by law. I therefore believe that it is not excessive or abusive to ask the government to tell us clearly what these articles contain. I hope that the members of this House will support this legitimate request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u171	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u172	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mr Gilkinet voted against. Mr Vercamer has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u173	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 16 November 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 16 November 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 171/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 171/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u174	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u175	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 16 November 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 16 November 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 186/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 186/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u176	Yes 82 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u177	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u178	Mr Carcaci voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u179	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Monica De Coninck on article 4. (1901/12) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Monica De Coninck to Article 4. (1901/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1901/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1901/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 33 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2097/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2097/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2045/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2045/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2064/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2064/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u184	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karin Temmerman cs to omit Articles 1 to 7. (2085/6) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karin Temmerman cs to delete Articles 1 to 7. (2085/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 1 to 7 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 1 to 7 were adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 8(n). (2085/6) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 8(n). (2085/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2085/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2085/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u186	Vote on Amendment No 26 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to insert a recital AD (n). (1973/7) Vote on amendment No 26 by Wouter De Vriendt cs to insert a recital AD(n). (1973/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (...): (...) The Chairman: We did vote, Mrs. Lijnen. Mrs Fonck, we can decide to cancel this vote and I have the impression that that is what we decide. I would like to inform you that we will have to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u187	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 27 by Wouter De Vriendt cs on request 4. (1973/7) Vote on amendment No 27 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at the request 4. (1973/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 127 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 105 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution as amended. (1973/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution as amended. (1973/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u189	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2092/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2092.4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u190	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2093/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2093/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u191	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u192	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u193	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 141 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2094/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2094/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 138 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2095/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2095/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u195	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u196	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2031/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2031/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u198	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2083/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2083/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2084/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2084/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u200	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 3. (2090/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 3. (2090/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 56 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 3 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 5. (2090/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 5. (2090/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u201	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 82 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2090/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2090/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u203	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 7/1(n). (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 7/1(n). (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes [[11]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 50 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 25 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 8. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 8. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[15]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 45 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem voted against) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 34 by David Geerts cs to Article 12. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 34 by David Geerts cs on Article 12. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 58 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 26 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 12. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 12. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes [[37]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 43 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 12. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Muriel Gerkens cs on Article 12. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 35 by David Geerts cs to Article 13. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 35 by David Geerts cs on Article 13. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 53 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr Emir Kir and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez, MM. Francis Delperée, Georges Dallemagne, Benoît Lutgen and Hans Bonte voted in favour) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to Article 13. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck on article 13. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 27 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 13. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 13. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 44 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 13. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Muriel Gerkens cs on Article 13. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[28]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 36 by David Geerts cs to Article 14. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 36 by David Geerts cs on Article 14. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 59 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 28 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 14. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 14. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 36 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr Philippe Blanchart voted in favour) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 14. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Muriel Gerkens cs on article 14. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 37 by David Geerts cs to Article 15. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 37 by David Geerts cs on Article 15. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 57 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr Alain Mathot voted in favour) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 15. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 15. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr. Jean-Marc Nollet abstained) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 15. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Muriel Gerkens cs on article 15. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 32 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 15. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 15. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (Mr Philippe Pivin voted against) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 15. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 15. (2091/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u204	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck to Article 15. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck on article 15. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 38 by David Geerts cs on Article 16. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 38 by David Geerts cs to Article 16. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 59 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 39 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 17. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 17. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck on article 17. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to Article 17. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 30 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 26. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 26. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 47 by Muriel Gerkens cs on article 26. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 26. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 31 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 36. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Rule 36. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 48 by Muriel Gerkens cs on article 36. (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Rule 36. (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 36 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 36 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 42(n). (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 42(n). (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 40 by David Geerts cs inserting a chapter 5(n). (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 40 by David Geerts cs to insert a Chapter 5(n). (2091/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 41 by David Geerts cs to insert an article 42(n). (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 41 by David Geerts cs to insert an Article 42(n). (2091/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u205	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 42 by David Geerts cs to insert an article 43(n). (2091/6) Vote on Amendment No 42 by David Geerts cs to insert an Article 43(n). (2091/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u206	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes 95 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2091/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2091/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-24-54-plenair-ip141x.u208	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 1 December 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 1 December 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 1 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
