ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament At her request, Mrs Pas 9587 will be converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr Blanchart's 9822 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 10737 will be dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriel's 10757 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 10765 will be converted into a written question. Interpellation No. Mrs Fonck's 141 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, your Ecolo-Groen fan club is represented here by the two Ecolo representatives from Brussels. Continue to schedule meetings at 9 a.m. and you will only have us from week to week! Through you, Belgium supported an agreement between the European Union and Turkey on 18 March 2016 on the expulsion of migrants, while expressing some reservations at the beginning of the negotiations, which I welcome. Since its entry into force on 20 March, no one can ignore the many criticisms expressed by civil society and international institutions such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. A recent Amnesty International report mentions numerous violations of international law in the context of the implementation of this agreement between the European Union and Turkey: non-compliance with the right of asylum guaranteed by Article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, non-compliance with the principle of non-refoulement as enshrined in Article 33 of the 1951 Geneva Convention, non-compliance with the right to receive asylum seekers as provided for in the relevant European Directive, non-compliance with the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment and collective expulsions as guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights (Article 3 of the ECHR and Article 4 of Additional Protocol 4 to the ECHR), etc. For years, our group has denounced the application of the concept of "safe third countries" to Turkey, as defined in Article 38 of the recast of the Procedures Directive. Prime Minister, the government met on 5 April 2016 to discuss this issue, the day after the first removal of migrants and asylum-seekers to Turkey. Has the government's position on this agreement, which you have negotiated for a very long time, finally evolved in view of the numerous violations of rights found since its practical implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u3	Mr President, Mr President, I had the opportunity to present in detail this agreement between the European Union and Turkey and its implementation at the last Federal Opinion Committee on European Legislation on 19 April. I refer to the intense debates and dialogues that have taken place with parliamentarians on this subject. However, I would like to recall a few points. This agreement, concluded on 18 March, pursued two objectives: the first is to try to dismantle the economic model of smugglers and the second is to offer migrants a prospect of legal migration and to do everything to avoid the temptation of potentially deadly crossings via the Mediterranean Sea. Since the beginning of the negotiations, Belgium has been clear that this agreement must comply fully with international legal standards and European regulations. Belgium, together with a few other countries, including Luxembourg and the Netherlands, has formally included this aspect in the texts. All migrants must be protected in accordance with applicable standards and the principle of non-refoulement. We remain attentive to this issue and Belgium urges the European Union to do so as well, throughout the implementation of this agreement. Together with the international organisations, the Commission and the relevant European agencies are following the process both in Greece and Turkey. A permanent dialogue shall be opened between the Commission and Turkey on all developments relating to the Agreement. To answer the few more specific questions, Turkey has adopted some legislative measures to better comply with these international standards. On 6 April, Turkey adopted a law clarifying, for example, that Syrians who will be re-admitted under the agreement may apply for and receive temporary protection, regardless of whether they were previously registered in Turkey. On 12 April, Turkey assured in writing that it would give temporary protection to all Syrians who had been re-admitted. Turkey had already taken the necessary legislative measures to improve the access of its labour market to Syrians, as we had hoped. At the request of the European Union, Turkey confirmed to the European Commission on 24 April that non-Syrians who have been re-admitted will also be able to apply for international protection. These requests will be registered and processed within a reasonable time frame. Turkey also ensured that such persons would benefit from the principle of non-refoulement. Information such as that you mentioned and reported by Amnesty International is taken very seriously. Turkey cannot evade its international obligations, of which the principle of non-refoulement is a part. The Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and the European Commission had raised the issue with the Turkish authorities and remained very vigilant. The Commission, the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and other international organizations were assisting Turkey in upgrading its administrative system for refugee protection and in strengthening its reception capacity. I conclude by repeating to you that we are not naive in the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. This negotiation is difficult. Implementation of the agreement is also difficult. We are following closely the provisions relating to visa liberalisation. A new report is expected tomorrow from the European Commission to present the state of implementation of the criteria set out in this process. We have also followed the statements made by the Turkish Prime Minister, who, in my view, do not coincide with the content of the agreement. This is being addressed to the European Commission, from Belgium as well as to other governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that the violations are so massive and repeated that the risk of this agreement being annulled by the Court of Justice of the European Union is very great. Why? Turkey is not a reliable partner; we have seen it, for example, in the area of terrorism. It took a very long time for Turkey to transmit information, which it eventually transmitted, but the agreement was two and a half years ago. We must remain vigilant because Turkey is interfering in Belgian internal affairs, for example via the Turkish Diyanet. The Turkish Minister of Worship interferes with a royal decree issued by your Minister of Justice. Turkey has just forced a big country like Germany to extradite a humorist. I hope that one day Laurence Bibot, Alex Vizorek or others will not be subjected to such threats. You're talking about an economic model. The aim is to fight against a supportive economic model for these smugglers. I believe that the best way to fight against the economic model of smugglers, which is indeed execrable, is to create safe roads, and reception points there that allow us to take to our countries the most vulnerable people and those who need them most. This is not the model chosen by the European Union. Having said that, I would like to point out that at the beginning of the negotiations you were not among the most vigilant or critical. I encourage you to remain so the future, because this issue is not finished, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament 11008 by Mr Van Hees will be dealt with in the Committee on Business. We are now ready for the second and final question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you know, in the wake of the horrific attacks of 22 March, Brussels, our capital, is experiencing a second economic and social tragedy. Many sectors and representatives of Brussels-based companies have sounded alarms: about 10 000 jobs would be threatened. There is talk of a real tsunami endangering the Horeca and tourism sectors in and around Brussels. In fact, cancellations and the drop in attendance following the attacks cause them to lose on average 40 per cent of their turnover, with peaks reaching 80 per cent for some establishments in the city centre. Brussels therefore calls for assistance from all its forces, but also from the political leaders of this country, regardless of the level of power. In the plenary session on 21 April, I asked the Minister of Economy Kris Peeters about this. He then assured me of his support and of his mobilization, along with the whole government, in order to revive the economy and activity in Brussels, as well as to restore its image on an international scale. The following day, you announced a series of measures along five main lines: the extension of temporary unemployment beyond 30 April for enterprises in Brussels and Flemish Brabant, accepted without conditions; the postponement of payment of social contributions for businesses in Brussels and Zaventem; the suspension of penalties for late payment of contributions; the suspension of fines relating to VAT and professional prepayment, as well as an ease of spreading or postponing payment; and the cancellation of savings in the three federal cultural institutions (La Monnaie, BOZAR and the National Orchestra), to which an amount of some €900,000 would be allocated. These measures are clearly in the right direction and represent an important effort for public finances – although they often take the form of postponements. The ecologists will support you in their implementation. However, I would like to go back to you because, given the urgency and seriousness of the situation, other, more substantial initiatives must be taken, mobilising more financial resources. Firstly, could we not imagine a real specific stimulus plan for the economic sectors most affected by the attacks (tourism, horeca, aviation) in order to support them massively in the very short term and to avoid these sectors collapsing and accumulating potential bankruptcies? It is one thing to postpone social contributions and VAT, but it is another thing to be able to help them in a substantial way today in order to avoid cessation of their activities. The European authorities strictly regulate this type of measure, but they should be able to accept an aid plan for entire sectors, as has been the case recently in other industries – I think, in particular, the banking sector. What budget could the federal government allocate for such a stimulus plan or for another type of direct assistance that does not consist of carry-overs? The sacred political union, all parties and all levels of power (citizens and all political worlds) is indispensable in the economic recovery of our capital. As a "Captain of the ship Belgium", it is up to you to take strong initiatives towards the Regions in order to organise effective structural cooperation. Can you tell me what has been done in this regard since your announcements of April 22nd? Finally, a large-scale promotional campaign is more than necessary to refurbish the Brussels coat of arms. We know how the image of Brussels abroad has deteriorated and how much tourism, horeca and the Brussels economic sector depend on foreign customers. The role of Brussels as the European capital is at stake. The Brussels government announced that it would allocate a budget of about 400,000 euros, which was increased yesterday to 700,000 euros. Again, would it not be possible to devote more resources and involve the federal level? We know that the image of our capital benefits Brussels, the country and all the regions of the country. I think that here too, a joint effort would be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u7	Mr. Chair, Mr. Member of Parliament, on Friday, April 22, the government brought together inter-sectoral actors and representatives from the horeca, trade, transportation and culture sectors to listen to needs and aspirations and, above all, to present the first decisions taken by the federal government to the sector. You mentioned a few of them. Companies located in Brussels or Flemish Brabant will have the possibility of resorting to temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure. All applications will be accepted unconditionally until June 30th. Other companies can also use it by motivating force majeure. A replacement income for the workers concerned will of course also be provided. The possibility is also foreseen to postpone the payment of social contributions for establishments in the horeca sector and shops in Brussels and Zaventem by one year, without any increase. For them too, the recognition of a sector in crisis allows them to adapt their social contributions more easily. These support measures (deferral, decrease in advance payments and exemption) are extended to all self-employed workers who demonstrate that they have difficulties following the March 22, 2016 terrorist attacks. All of these measures apply to contributions in the first three quarters of this year. A relaxation for VAT and the professional discount will also be introduced. The procedure should be simplified, with an online form. In addition, a plan for the payment of ONSS contributions may be drawn up at the employer's request, which may also be exempt from increases and interest in the event of late payment. The aim is, of course, that these measures avoid as much as possible dismissals or bankruptcies in connection with the economic situation resulting from these attacks. The measures to defer payment of VAT, professional pre-payments and social contributions were welcomed by all stakeholders, who expressed their satisfaction because we acted quickly and because the decisions taken coincided with what seemed necessary to immediately give an oxygen balloon, in many cases vital for the companies concerned. In this regard, I would add that the envelope mobilised potentially covers several billion euros. They're huge amounts. Depending on the recourse that will be made by the companies concerned, we will be able to see what the real impact is in terms of the cash flow for the State and thus the injection into the cash flow of the companies in order to try to support them at this difficult time. I would also like to add that I did not fail to inform the Brussels government before the meeting on 22 April. Meetings were then held at the intercabinets level - the Brussels government and the federal government - to ensure the best possible complementarity between the measures of each other. I am committed to continuing this work of coordination with the Brussels government, but also with the federated entities because, as you said, the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region are also potentially involved. I come to a few specific points. In your question, you mentioned the constraint. We do not exclude the possibility of going further. But we must take account of European state aid rules. I have made commitments for the implementation of permanent monitoring and will review the sectors concerned within four weeks. A date has already been set at the beginning of June, the aim being to take a new look at the situation in order to check whether to strengthen, adapt and improve certain measures while taking into account the constraints you have referred to in European law and state aid. As I announced, we are working on an image campaign. My objective is to see how the latter can be coordinated with the means mobilized in collaboration with the federated entities. I have also set up a task force within the Chancery, which will shortly make proposals to the Council of Ministers on this subject. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the best way to improve our image is to achieve results and return as quickly as possible to normal life. That's why it was essential to reopen the metro, which is now done, even if it wasn't simple. Indeed, a balance had to be struck between the reopening of the metro and the mobilization of the appropriate means of safety, based on the proposals made by the Crisis Centre. It was also important to reopen the airport lobby, which was done on Sunday with a capacity of up to 80%, taking into account the period before the attacks. Every effort is made to regain a capacity of 100%. We are now working hard, from the office of the Minister of the Interior, to find solutions to the difficult situation we are currently experiencing with these long queues. At this level, we need to find a balance, in collaboration with the various interlocutors, in order to manage the situation at the airport while ensuring the most appropriate security situation possible. Constructive meetings took place yesterday. Other meetings are still scheduled in the coming hours. We hope to be able to resolve, as quickly as possible with all the actors and with a lot of common sense, this issue which is very important to our image. Indeed, we are convinced that as soon as possible the airport will be normalised, as soon as possible the sectors concerned will also have their situation normalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic405x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your feeling that the priority is the return to normal life. Some progress, which you mentioned, has taken place in recent days. We can only welcome the complete reopening of the metro so that life can resume its rights in Brussels. The same applies to the airport, even if serious obstacles are to be overcome so that there is a return to full normal operation of the airport. I hear your willingness to coordinate through a task force and to involve all regions of the country. It's fundamental. At the end of 2015, we saw some disorganization between the levels of power. Several announcements were made and some initiatives were not coordinated between the regional level in Brussels, the municipalities or the federal government. This had caused a lot of trouble and anxiety among the population. Today, collaboration seems better. As Prime Minister, I can only encourage you to keep the tempo and above all to be the driving force that will put all the actors involved around the table. When it comes to such themes, the capital of all Belgians, there are no longer political games. There's no more calculation to do. We need to stick together and move forward. As far as the recovery plan I mentioned in my question is concerned, there is indeed a need to pay attention at European level. We inquired on our side before asking you the question and we had feedback from the sectors concerned, particularly in Brussels. Some sectors call for an effort to be made. This should be analyzed and a file compiled. In recent years, at European level, entire sectors have been saved, with the backing of Europe. I do not list everything that has been done here. It would therefore be extremely surprising that, in the aftermath of attacks, lockdowns and major security threats in Brussels, there was a blockage. If such a recovery plan is necessary – and we ask for it to be studied – the excuse to say that Europe is going to block us is somewhat exaggerated at this level. It would be surprising if Europe were to let us down. Finally, as far as the promotion campaign is concerned, I really encourage you to do something more comprehensive. If I understand correctly, the Brussels government will launch a campaign very soon, with 700,000 euros on the table. This initiative is positive. Having said that, could we not be more imaginative and give more resources? It is not a six-month or one-year campaign that will make up for these losses. If we want to act effectively to restore the image of Brussels, action must now be taken.
