ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u1	Mr Luykx has put his question No. Let's put off 11781. Mrs Jadin has gone to the Finance Committee for a moment, so when she gets back we will discuss her question under point 4. First, Mr Hellings' question under point 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u2	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, on 19 May last I asked your colleague in charge of development cooperation the following question, and he referred me back to you, hence my question. Following the Panama Papers scandal, the IMF, the World Bank, the UN and the OECD announced on 19 April the creation of a common platform to help poor countries fight the tax evasion of multinationals. This is a great step forward since the World Bank is particularly involved in tax evasion. Indeed, for 2015, of the 68 companies that borrowed from the IFC (International Finance Corporation, a subsidiary of the World Bank) to finance development projects in Africa, 51 used tax havens. We have already discussed this with Minister De Croo. In a report published in January, the United Nations independent expert on debt and human rights, Juan Pablo Bohoslavsky, stressed the need to combat financial flows considered illegal, which deprived southern States of resources that could finance activities essential for the eradication of poverty and the realization of economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights. Moreover, these flows, I quote, "contribute to the accumulation of unsustainable debt, since insufficient government revenue can push governments to turn to external borrowing". Following the presentation of the report, a resolution on tax evasion and the need to transfer assets diverted to so-called developing countries was adopted at the level of the United Nations Human Rights Council. However, in this vote, on 24 March 2016, Belgium abstained. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, how do you explain Belgium's abstention in the vote on the UN Human Rights Council resolution on tax evasion and the need to surrender the assets diverted to the so-called developing countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u3	Mr Hellings, the judgment of the Member States of the European Union at the Human Rights Council was and remains that whatever the legitimacy of this discussion, the Human Rights Council is not the right forum to conduct it. Belgium participates actively in all consultations within the group of Member States of the European Union on a tax on financial transactions. It is therefore incorrect to speak of a Belgian blockage of the current thinking. In accordance with the government agreement, Belgium supports the introduction of a tax on financial transactions. Despite Estonia's formal withdrawal on 16 March 2016 of enhanced cooperation to introduce a tax on financial transactions, following Tallin's disagreement on a joint declaration setting out some guidelines for further discussion, the remaining ten states, including Belgium, are still trying to move forward, notwithstanding the difficulties encountered in this sensitive issue, after three years of debate. I can confirm that I remain very attentive to this approach since I myself, by exercising other capacities a few years ago, travels around the political groups of the European Parliament to try to convince them. Members of certain groups, and I am thinking of a particular group, Mr President, were hesitant about the need to move forward on this tax path. I assure you that we are moving forward in this direction, but I know the Human Rights Council, and I really believe that it is not the appropriate forum to address this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u4	Mr. President, I don't understand. Indeed, I was asking a question about the tax evasion of multinationals in developing countries, and the tax on financial transactions, which can of course help, is another thing. When it came to position itself against tax evasion and the need to reverse the embezzlement of the southern countries, and to vote favourably on these issues, Belgium did not do so. It's incomprehensible. I do not see the link between the tax evasion of multinationals and the tax on financial transactions. The latter will only concern financial transactions! The fight against tax evasion is something else. Or I don't understand. In any case, Belgium has missed an opportunity, and this is an opportunity to say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u5	Mr President, Minister, last January I asked your colleague, the Minister of the Interior Jambon, about the agreements in Tournai II. In my speech, I was pleased that this agreement was finally ratified by France. This marked a first step towards effective cross-border police cooperation between Belgium and France. Many crimes are actually committed at the border level (drug trafficking, burglary, arms trafficking, etc.) and it was time to empower the police in both countries. Nevertheless, I was convinced, and I am still so convinced, that the means given to Belgian and French police officers must be further developed in order to combat certain offences, particularly petty crime, which is their daily life. Indeed, while the Tournai agreement allows mixed patrols to interrogate offenders on both sides of the border, it is still not possible for traditional patrols to exercise this right of interpellation across the border. I therefore asked Mr Jambon whether it was possible for this agreement to allow, in the long run, Belgian or French police officers, in the framework of a traditional patrol, to interrogate the perpetrators of crimes on both sides of the border. His answer was clear and I quote: "A solution could be offered to French police officers through an adaptation of the Belgian legal framework. However, the difficulty cannot be resolved in the short or even the medium term with regard to Belgian police officers. Indeed, despite the numerous attempts made over the past several years to bring a satisfactory solution to this unfortunate situation, France finds itself, because of a constitutional obstacle, unable to entrust operational powers, including the right of arrest, to any foreign police officer who intervenes in its territory as part of a planned form of cross-border police cooperation. Only a revision of the French Constitution could pave the way for a remedy." Minister, are you aware of the problem of small daily crime at the border between Belgium and France and of the difficulties that police officers have in acting? Have you ever had an opportunity to discuss this with your French counterpart?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u6	Mr Delannois, I am not unaware of the fact that crime at the Franco-Belgian border includes many crimes. Through cooperation and the exchange of information between the competent services of our two countries, we have a fairly clear view of the security challenges. The current circumstances prompt us to give an important place to the fight against terrorists. Despite this, of course, we remain vigilant with regard to other forms of transnational crime. I have every confidence in my colleague Jan Jambon, the Minister of the Interior, to make progress on this subject. Although Belgian police officers are not allowed to arrest people in France for constitutional reasons, it is clear that the Tournai II agreement of 2013 has considerably expanded the scope for cooperation in the cross-border area. The daily police cooperation as well as the agreement between the French and Belgian police services are very good. Currently, a working group is preparing an initial assessment of the implementation of the Tournai II Agreement. I am very attentive to the problem of cross-border crime. This issue was not specifically addressed in my initial discussions with my new colleague, Mr Jean-Marc Ayrault, who took office in February as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I respect, of course, the competence of the Ministers of the Interior in both national and international matters, but I will not fail to draw the attention of my counterpart once again, so that we can try, in partnership with the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and the Ministers of the Interior, to make further progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u7	Minister, thank you. I'm glad to hear that there will be a first evaluation. I will certainly come back to you to know the ins and outs of it. It is true that, in terms of attacks, we are constantly hearing about cooperation. Very honestly, on the ground, I can assure you that small business is sometimes just as important as the rest. As far as the agreement of Tournai II is concerned, the signatures have been affixed but we sometimes have the impression that they are very great masses! Of course, this is important, but I believe that there is a need to go much further in the resolution of small things which sometimes mean that the citizen does not find himself in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u8	Minister, Human Rights Watch recently reported that child labour among Syrian refugees is flourishing in Turkey. At least half a million Syrian children in Turkey do not go to school. That is roughly one third of the Syrian population in school age. One of the causes is that they have to work to survive. Families in Gaziantep tell us that they cannot spare the income of their children, partly because rents in the city are getting higher due to the influx of refugees. The Turkish city of about 1.5 million inhabitants has received half a million Syrians in recent years. The children make working days of 12 hours, six days a week. This makes them earn between 50 and 200 euros per month. The legal minimum wage in Turkey is 550 euros per month for a 45-hour working week. The young Syrian factory workers are mainly boys. In the predominantly conservative Syrian community in Gaziantep, it's a bigger taboo for an adult mother to go out to work than her 11-year-old son. Minister, I have three questions for you. Can you confirm that Syrian children are employed in Turkish factories? At the UN Human Rights Council, you recently called for increased monitoring of human rights violations within the EU as a result of the refugee crisis. The European Commission would vouch for this. Will you therefore call for this increased control of human rights violations to be extended to Turkey? If so, how would you like to do this? If not, why not? During the election of our country as a member of the General Assembly of the UN Human Rights Council, you have highlighted, among other things, the commitment to children's rights as a spearhead for our country. Will you also take the lead in the UN Human Rights Council to take action against child labour in Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u9	Minister, I agree with Mr Van der Maelen's question on child labour in Turkey. I would like to add another question. Can child labour in Turkey no longer be recognised as a safe country in the context of asylum? My second question concerns political developments and the impact on the refugee agreement with the European Union. On 24 May 2016, Benali Yildirim became the new Prime Minister of Turkey. He is known as much more loyal to President Erdogan than his predecessor. One of his first statements as a new Prime Minister was that he wanted to strengthen President Erdogan's position. Even more worrying is the fact that on 20 May the Turkish Parliament agreed to a constitutional change on the direction of the AKP, which would allow MEPs to be prosecuted in future. In particular, the Left and Pro-Kurdish party HDP risks losing more than 80% of its parliamentarians through dubious accusations based on the Terrorist Act. Minister, how do you estimate developments in Turkey? Are you concerned about Erdogan's increasing authoritarian course? Will you insist bilaterally, at EU level or through the Council of Europe on the importance of freedom and democracy in Turkey? Will you protest bilaterally or at EU level against depriving Members of Parliament's immunity? What will you do if Members of Parliament are effectively prosecuted on the basis of a law on terrorism which the EU itself requires to be amended? Is there any thought within the European Union about a plan B, should the refugee deal break up with Turkey? Is the withdrawal on the table of the Turkey Refugee Facility's payout? It is a total amount of EUR 3 billion, of which EUR 58 million is to be paid by Belgium. My third question is as a result of an article published in MO*Magazine that would show that asylum seekers in Turkey in some cases have to wait until seven years for a first discussion. This is also about Syrians. There's a story of someone who was invited to sign up in 2023. In the meantime, these people are not protected and left to their fate by the Turkish state. I know that Turkey has theoretically implemented a number of reforms in its asylum legislation, but there are reports showing that these reforms have not yet been implemented and I think they are worrying. What is your response to this report from Turkey on the inaccessibility of the asylum procedure and the selectivity of resettlement? President Erdogan has now announced that he wants to do something for the highly educated, but the lower educated would be left to their fate. Is this the subject of a bilateral discussion within the framework of the European Union? If not, are you still prepared to put this on the table? My final question concerns the visa waiver. That exemption for Turks travelling to the European Union did not come at the end of June. President Erdogan refuses to change the anti-terrorism law so that it would no longer be useful to silence political opponents. He has recently confirmed that he does not intend to change the law either, but on the contrary wishes to tighten up the law, especially in the light of the recent attacks in Istanbul. This is clearly used as an argument. I'll skip a little introduction and ask you two questions right away. How seriously do you consider Turkey's refusal to reform its law on terrorism to meet the other outstanding European demands? What are your chances of Turkey blowing up the refugee deal? Do you understand the position of Doctors Without Borders? That is one of the great NGOs who recently strongly criticized the refugee deal. Do you understand that they find the Turkey deal and possibly other similar deals in North Africa and the Middle East unethical?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u10	Mr President, Minister, we are very concerned about the plight of Syrian children displaced in Turkey. According to a Human Rights Watch (HRW) investigation, Syrian refugee children are forced to work 12 hours a day in deplorable, dangerous and abusive conditions for just $35 a week. These thousands of Syrian children who have found refuge in Turkey are now deprived of the opportunity to go to school and are forced to take on the role of "support", their families barely making ends meet. These children, for most boys, have no choice but to work 12 hours a day in textile factories in Turkey, a country where the participation of minors in economic activities is, however, strictly prohibited. Child labour deprives girls and boys of their rights: the right to be safe from danger, the right to education, quality vocational training and the right to play and rest. All this at a time when the President of the European Council recently declared: "Turkey is exemplary in its attitude towards refugees. No one has the right to give him advice on this." Minister, what preventive and protective mechanisms have been put in place by the European Union and the International Labour Organisation to target refugee children, particularly in the field of education? Is this issue addressed in your bilateral exchanges with this country? What urgent procedures can be put in place by the international community, and how can Belgium participate, to avoid such violations of children's rights? Following the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on the reception of refugees, what are the guarantees of full respect for children's rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u11	Mr President, I have some points of answer concerning various aspects of the questions raised, since they dealt with several points of attention concerning our relations, in particular with Turkey. As regards political developments in Turkey, on 20 May the Turkish Parliament adopted a constitutional amendment to waive the parliamentary immunity of Members of Parliament against whom legal complaints have been lodged. However, this waiver would involve 152 parliamentary members of the four parties represented in parliament, with a large majority of members of the HDP party. On 7 June, President Erdogan approved the bill. I do not need to repeat that I remain concerned about these developments. I continue to emphasise the importance of human rights, freedom and the rule of law in Turkey. On 8 June, Commissioner Hahn also reiterated the European Union's view that parliamentary immunity should apply to all without discrimination. The waiver of immunity must be done in a transparent manner and not on the basis of political considerations. The Commissioner also expressed concern about the general situation of the rule of law and of democracy in Turkey. In the context of the road map for visa liberalisation, the EU therefore calls for the law on terrorism to be amended. I have always said this to the Turkish fellow Members who were present in Brussels. This requires not only a legislative amendment, but also changes in the practice of police and judicial services. Turkey remains a key partner for the European Union, in particular with regard to the refugee crisis. The progress report that the EU will publish this autumn will be a good opportunity to hold a thorough debate on the situation in Turkey. I repeat our view on visa liberalisation: we are calling for an adaptation of the law on terrorism, not only from the European Union but also bilaterally with the previous government and with the new government. On the issue of the refugee agreement with the EU. The European Union is currently focusing on the implementation of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. The Commission is in close consultation with the Turkish authorities. At the same time, work is also continuing at European level on the sustainable strengthening of existing European cooperation on asylum and migration, focusing on the external dimension of migration and resettlement. In particular, Turkey is called for an objective and transparent system. The Turkish Government announced in January 2016 an amendment to the legal framework, in line with the EU-Turkey Agreement, which would allow Syrian refugees, who are on Turkish soil for more than six months, to apply for a work permit. The authorities have also planned to eliminate the delay in applications by the end of 2016. According to the European Commission, improvements have already been made in the treatment of applications. Belgium, like all other European Member States, contributes to the budget facility for refugees in Turkey. This facility is aimed at projects that benefit refugees. It is therefore not direct budgetary aid, it is aid for concrete projects in cooperation with the Turkish authorities, certain NGOs and the local representatives of the European Commission. Our country has always insisted that the funds should reach these recipients and will continue to monitor them. A suspension of this facility is always possible if there is a political agreement. However, this is not on the agenda. Recovery procedures are of course foreseen if the funds are not used in accordance with the agreements made. The first evaluation of the agreement indicates a proper functioning. There is clearly a reduction in the number of refugees coming to Europe. The comments are therefore positive, and so far there has been a positive evaluation of the implementation of that agreement with Turkey. We will see whether it will be possible to conclude a similar agreement with other countries, but there are no discussions on this so far, not even with Libya. I have heard a lot of comments on this, but there are no concrete negotiations yet. Regarding child labour, I assume you're referring to a report that Human Rights Watch published in November 2015. The illegal employment of child refugees in Turkey, as well as of adults, is illegal and is therefore not always easy to combat. I can confirm that my services and myself closely follow the problem of the reception of refugee children. At bilateral level, as in the past, I will not fail to raise the issue of human rights in my diplomatic contacts with Turkey. The flow of refugees also requires an increased effort from the international community. Our country has therefore dramatically increased its efforts in the humanitarian field. Mr De Vriendt, as regards the assessment of whether or not a country is considered safe, this is one of the possible criteria. What I'm saying here only concerns the children. I will continue to pay attention to this situation, but it is not a general criterion for a possible decision. However, it is possible to take into account the evolution of the illegal employment of children when deciding on the possible expulsion of people to Turkey. This may be more true for children than in general. As regards child labour, we will therefore continue to do so bilaterally in our contacts with Turkey. This dossier is also monitored at European level, notably in the framework of the new European Union action plan for human rights and democracy entitled "Keeping human rights at the centre of the European Union's priorities" and adopted by the Foreign Affairs Council in July 2015. The elimination of child labour also requires increased efforts in the education sector. Schooling Syrian refugee children in Turkey is a priority part of the refugee facility set up under the EU-Turkey agreement. Currently, 325,000 Syrian children are enrolled in the Turkish school system. All efforts are now focused on the enrolment of another 400,000 children in the next school year and by 2018. I would like to pay attention to the scale of the problem and the figures I have just mentioned. At the international level, European companies should be encouraged to respect human rights in their production chains. This work is mainly carried out in the context of the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. You also referred to the International Labour Organization. As a member country, Turkey is required, inter alia, to respect Convention No. 182 on the Worst Forms of Child Labour and Convention No. 138 on the Minimum Age for Admission to Employment and Work. Turkey has set this age limit at 15 years, subject to certain conditions. We will also be paying attention to developments in both bilateral and multilateral forums. Mr President, I would like to point out that we are very vigilant about developments in the internal situation in Turkey and about more specific elements concerning refugees. Having said that, we must also pay attention to the development of the situation in terms of the influx of refugees into European territory. A number of comments can be made on the agreements that have been concluded, but, at any rate, at the moment we are seeing some control of flows on one or the other route that has been heavily used in the past. Of course, we will be careful to avoid any dramatic situation, especially for children. I would like to stress once again the figures I have quoted. There is no question, as is sometimes the case in our countries, of some thousands of children who need to be accommodated in the school system, but of more than 300,000 children already integrated into the Turkish education system and 400,000 children who need to be integrated into it. I can imagine that important problems will arise when these children arrive, but we should welcome the efforts made by the Turkish authorities in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your full and thorough answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u13	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You're right. Turkey faces a huge challenge in terms of good reception of refugees. However, I would ask you to ask Turkey to make good use of the EUR 6 billion we are making available in bilateral contacts, or rather, through consultation at European level. It is difficult enough and there must certainly not be a lost generation. If you do not send children to school, it is a handicap that you carry with you for the rest of your life. Unfortunately, we have these situations. Very often we have to conclude afterwards that this poses problems in the medium or long term. It is very often in those environments that the radicalisation of young people takes place, which then resorts to the weapon of violence. It is a good thing that in bilateral contacts with your fellow Members of the European Parliament special attention and effort would be called upon to at least train these children. Because of their parents' flight they already have enough handicaps for the rest of their lives, we cannot add that handicap to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The question is, however, what position does our country defend within Europe? Do we play an active role in this? Are we critical of Turkey? I ask you to be very critical of Turkey. You yourself spoke about child labour: 500 000 children. What's the reason for child labour? This is not so much that the children are not sufficiently scholarized, but above all that it is made particularly difficult for parents to work in Turkish asylum legislation. This child labour, purely black, is one of the only sources of income for many families, because Turkey makes it so difficult for parents to work in the labour market in a normal, regular way. We should make the list for Turkey sometime. There is child labour, there is parliamentary immunity under pressure, there is the treatment of refugees who leave everything to be desired, and there is anti-terrorism legislation that targets opponents. To what extent can we still regard Turkey as a rule of law and democracy? To what extent can we still conclude agreements with Turkey? You reply that Turkey is important to us in view of the refugee agreement. In your opinion, the first evaluation can also be positive, because there are fewer refugees in Europe. Is that the objective? The objective of war refugees must be to protect them. If many reports say that war refugees are not adequately protected in Turkey, it is at the same level as the objective of reducing refugees to Europe. The evaluation of the refugee agreement with Turkey is therefore not at all positive. Are there opportunities to put further pressure on Turkey so that it respects human rights and gives more perspective to refugees, not just with regard to children? What are the possible levers? There is visa liberalisation, but also trade. For Turkey, Europe is the most important trading partner. Can we not use certain economic levers to put pressure on Turkey to comply with the rules of the Convention on Refugees? Do you know that Syrians are being put back across the border by Turkey to war zone? That's not a normal way to work. Europe needs to make a thorough assessment, show its teeth and look for levers that it can use to put more pressure on Erdogan than it does today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u15	Minister, as you said, the situation is dramatic, given the magnitude of the figures. While the Turkish Government's efforts should be welcomed, it will certainly be necessary to keep a close eye on developments in Turkey in order to protect these children as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u16	Mr Minister, the European sanctions against Russia on banks, the defence and energy sectors expired at the beginning of July. Extensions required a unanimous vote and this issue was to be discussed during this month of June. German Chancellor Angela Merkel felt at the G7 summit in Japan that it was premature to consider lifting them this summer. However, a common European position is becoming increasingly difficult on this issue. Indeed, the idea of extending and maintaining sanctions is becoming increasingly reticent among the 28 countries, particularly in some countries in Central and Eastern Europe. In addition, the Russian Prime Minister announced that he had asked his ministers to prepare for a possible extension of the EU food embargo until the end of 2017, in response to the continuation of European sanctions. It turns out that the European Union finally extended the sanctions by six months, on Friday 1 July, until the end of January 2017. European leaders are calling for more progress in implementing the Minsk agreements to end the Eastern War in Ukraine. Minister, what is Belgium's position in this renewal of sanctions against Russia? What was the position taken at the European Council meeting on 28 and 29 June to discuss the extension of sanctions against Moscow? What are the consequences of maintaining these sanctions? What would be the consequences of maintaining the Russian embargo for the European Union in general and for our country in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u17	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all thanks to the colleagues for waiting for me, that is very kind of you. We had yesterday a very interesting debate on NATO's new strategy for preparing for the Warsaw Summit this weekend. Of course, one of the flagship measures that was discussed, for those who were present, was NATO's strengthening of the eastern flank, particularly in relation to the Russian threat. The dates overlap somewhat with the decisions to be taken by the European Union on Russia and whether or not to maintain sanctions. On 16 June, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, visited the St Petersburg Economic Forum organised by the Kremlin. This trip comes at a time when the Union must decide shortly whether or not to continue the economic sanctions imposed on Russia, which are due to expire at the end of July. As a reminder, the Minsk agreements negotiated in February 2015 stipulate that these sanctions, renewable every six months, will be relaxed only in the event of full compliance with the provisions of this compromise. However, there are several voices within the Union, both at the level of certain Member States and of economic actors, denouncing the continuation of this hard line and the boomerang effect of these sanctions on European economic interests. On the one hand, defence is being strengthened through NATO, and here the stakes are quite different. How do you interpret this visit by the President of the European Commission to St Petersburg? What were the main themes addressed? Can this be seen as a sign of a certain warming of relations between the Union and Russia? What is Belgium's position to date on the question of maintaining the sanctions currently in force against the Russian Federation? Can you inform me of the current state of implementation by Ukraine and Russia of the provisions of the Minsk agreements, as well as of any blocking points, if any, that would hinder the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u18	Mr President, there was also a question from Mr Luykx, so I will answer the three questions. Belgium's position on sanctions against Russia has remained stable and consistent since the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine. Sanctions are a time-consuming instrument. These sanctions are aimed at changing Russian behaviour in the east of Ukraine, they are not an end in themselves. In this sense, I am in favour of an intelligent application of sanctions. In case of major progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreements, relief should be possible. I also note that there is some development in Europe in this area. We are beginning to accept that we are not doing an "all-or-nothing" analysis, i.e. strengthening sanctions if the situation is to deteriorate, but also, as the European Council has pointed out, providing for the lifting of sanctions, including partial and progressive sanctions, as the Minsk agreements are implemented. This will require concrete progress, clear and tangible elements. Some measures also concern Crimea directly and can, of course, be lifted only in the event of real progress in Crimea. Of course, for the time being, we do not really have any information on any positive developments in the implementation of the Minsk agreements. A logic has therefore been the unanimous decision of the Council to continue these sanctions for another six months from 1 July. One of the major difficulties of the debate is to maintain European unity among all the partner states in both directions. Some States should not want to go too far, and others should also avoid opening up too quickly to a resumption of activities in the absence of progress on the ground. I really insist: our hope remains that the implementation of the Minsk agreements is moving forward, because it can lead to a reduction in sanctions. I note, however, that everyone will also have noticed that we are receiving requests, not so much on the basis of the sanctions imposed on Russia, but on the basis of the embargoes that Russia has decided to implement in reply. In several sectors, particularly in Belgium, the situation is sometimes somewhat complicated. Measures have been taken at European and Belgian level to try to help those responsible for the sectors. In the agricultural sector, I am thinking mainly of the fruit sector, the pig sector or other areas directly affected. There is, of course, still some hope for the military aspect of the Minsk agreements. The front line seems to be no longer moving, even though there are still too many ceasefire violations today. This is a significant achievement. It wouldn't take much for weapons to really shut up. The OSCE mission on the ground plays a crucial role in promoting peace, but persistent blockages remain on the political front, particularly regarding decentralization and the organisation of elections in separatist regions. The Minsk agreements are the best prospect for Ukraine to regain control of its border with Russia. I would also like to make it clear, speaking of decentralization and the organisation of elections, that we are putting pressure on the Russian authorities to implement the agreements, but we must also put pressure on the Ukrainian authorities. President Poroshenko, often, does not get a majority in parliament for some reforms. This is also a huge problem. The analysis of the implementation of the Minsk agreements should not show that the biggest difficulties are on the Ukrainian side. We must constantly intervene on both sides. However, for the time being, the maintenance of sanctions makes it possible to affirm the unity and firmness of the European Union in the face of a serious attack on the territorial integrity of one of its neighbours and on the principle of the inviolability of borders. These sanctions, of course, also have a geopolitical price, since they affect relations with Russia. I note, however, that relations between the European Union and Russia are less bad than in 2014 and that the dialogue is less tense. However, there are still major substantive differences, in particular, with regard to the territorial integrity of Ukraine. In reply to Mr Luykx's question, I can say that the various analyses available to me show that the sanctions against Russia and the deteriorating economic situation there are indeed having an effect. It is true that the counter-sanctions adopted by Russia have an impact on certain European and Belgian economic sectors in particular. I would point out that, at the level of the European Commission, measures have been taken to alleviate this effect, particularly in the fruit sector for which markets have even been reoriented. However, it still faces market saturation and a reduced profit margin. Mrs Jadin, with regard to the recent visit of the President of the European Commission to the St Petersburg Forum, it is fully within the framework of his competence and the necessary dialogue that we must continue with Moscow. Belgium continues to apply the doctrine of one of my predecessors, the Harmel doctrine, by trying to maintain both a firm position, when the stakes we face in the relationship with Russia are important, and an open dialogue. I have always argued in favour of maintaining dialogue. I recalled this in committee during the Belgian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe during which I met on several occasions with my colleague Sergei Lavrov during this period of crisis. I note that President Juncker referred to our interdependence and the need for dialogue, but also to the illegality of the annexation of Crimea. It has therefore remained within the framework of the classical European position. As far as we are concerned, we wish to continue to defend this same point of view within the European Union, which means a logic of sanctions as long as there is no concrete progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreements and, if there were any, we could imagine a gradual lifting of the sanctions but at the same time maintaining contacts with Moscow. We must maintain a policy that follows these two paths and this has been re-explained during the debate on the preparation of the NATO summit and this has made me, along with others, defend the idea of continuing to hold Russia-NATO councils despite the difficulties still encountered for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u19	Mr Minister, what is worrying about this issue is that European unity is really in this respect, because we are witnessing, in the head of some states, a phenomenon of extreme rigour against Russia and much more complacency towards other countries which, unfortunately, share the same characteristics. It's getting more and more annoying. It is clear that a balance must be maintained between dialogue and demand. This is essential in view of the stakes which are the relations between our country and Europe, in general, and Russia. I agree with your analysis that we do not need a binary attitude at all or nothing in this case. It is clear that, on a case-by-case basis, positive progress can be made, not by systematically saying no to any evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u20	Mr President, I already had the opportunity to speak yesterday afternoon. I fully agree with the minister's analysis that we must at some point remain firm in relation to Russia's annexation of Crimea. It is an absolutely aggressive and belligerent act. Coming from a region which has, one day, itself been annexed, I can assure you that we must remain firm in relation to that. Of course, this will also logically imply the maintenance of sanctions. And there, the whole stake will be to speak with a voice at European Union level. It's a challenge. I think we can do this even if we are in Poland or France, while maintaining dialogue. It's important. This is the best way to try to relax the situation a bit. I fully share this interdependence, which was mentioned by the chairman of the committee. We know that all the Russians are absolutely dependent on the investments that Europeans will make, so much so that we too have every interest, particularly in the energy aspect, as everyone knows, in maintaining an acceptable agreement. In the meantime, I'll eat pears!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u21	Mr Minister, through B-FAST, a multidisciplinary structure that has proved its worth for more than 15 years, our country has shown on numerous occasions that it can, within the framework of international solidarity, intervene effectively in disasters by providing emergency relief. In mid-April, you announced that you were going to present us with the findings of an audit report on B-FAST, which has been expected for months. To date, we have not seen anything coming in this regard. Mr.Minister, I would therefore like to ask you again the question: when do you intend, through the formal channels, to communicate the findings of this audit to the House? Will the content of the report be made public? Will there be a debate on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u22	Mrs Grovonius, as I have repeatedly announced in Parliament, I intend to hand over to the government all the elements relating to B-FAST before, I hope, the end of this session. I will not hide from you that discussions are under way with the various departments concerned. I will not only submit the Government's conclusions to Parliament, but also all the documents, including the relevant audit. I will probably have the opportunity to announce additional audits, because it is not excluded that we should do further analyses in the future. I think I can reach a decision by the government on concrete conclusions before the end of this session. I will then be able to send you, at the end of the month or at the beginning of September, all the relevant elements, including the documents relating to the audit report. On this occasion, I will eventually announce further audits that may take place in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u23	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 12058 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 12096 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u25	Minister, you recently made a four-day trip to Tanzania and Rwanda. The aim of this mission was to take stock of Belgium's bilateral relations with these two countries. This move has, I suppose, also enabled you to measure the current tense climate in the region. I am thinking in particular of the situation in Burundi, which has been plagued for more than a year in a crisis to which no solution seems to have yet been found. Many Burundian refugees have found refuge in Tanzania and live in very difficult conditions. The situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is also unwelcome. Minister, can you first debrief us about your trip to Tanzania and Rwanda? Have you had the opportunity to meet political leaders in these two countries? A meeting was planned with Benjamin Mkapa, mediator in the Burundian crisis. Did you ever meet him? Can you give us a summary of your interview? Tanzania and Rwanda both face a very large influx of Burundian refugees. In this context, has a request for additional humanitarian aid been sent to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u26	I did indeed have the opportunity to debrief the committee on this move last month on the sidelines of another question. I can recall the following. In Tanzania, I was able to have substantive conversations both in Dar Es Salaam and in Dodoma with the President of the Republic and the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Defence and Justice, with the facilitator of the East African Community in the Burundian crisis, Benjamin Mkapa, former President, as well as with various other actors including the Secretary General of the East African Community. I confirm that I was impressed by the weighted analysis of the Tanzanian authorities who are aware of the nature of the Burundian crisis and who seem to me to be very motivated to preserve the spirit of Arusha, on which civil peace in the country is based. Tanzanians believe that Belgium has a special role to play in resolving the Burundian crisis, particularly with the opposition, many of which are based in Belgium. I had a good exchange with President Mkapa. I promised him my full support. During my mission to Tanzania, I raised other topics, such as the fight against radicalism. The question of strengthening economic relations between our two countries was also discussed. I also visited the port of Dar Es Salaam and had the opportunity to talk to a number of economic actors active in this sector. Finally, the question of cross-border cooperation between the countries of the region was discussed, both with the Tanzanian authorities and with the Secretary-General of the East African Community. Upon my return, I had the opportunity to meet with the leaders of the Burundian opposition to determine to what extent we could assist in the development of the situation in Burundi, especially since President Benjamin Mkapa had visited Belgium after my visit, in order to meet with a number of opposition actors. Since then, it must be recognized that there are few concrete signs of a change in the dialogue on the situation in Burundi, while efforts are continuing. Meetings are being held, attempts are being made to reach out, and I hope that the efforts made on the spot and by the facilitator, President Benjamin Mkapa, will succeed. We're waiting, but meetings are scheduled. In Rwanda, I was able to meet with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with whom we reviewed bilateral relations and the regional situation. I also met with the Minister of Justice and a senior security officer. I raised the domestic political situation and political and social issues with my interlocutors, as well as some human rights concerns. I called for respect for public freedoms in a pre-electoral context. The issue of refugees was also raised with the authorities as well as with the United Nations bodies. I have not noted any request for additional assistance from the Rwandan authorities even though the United Nations is looking for funds for this year. The debate was clear with the representatives of the United Nations on the spot. There was an urgent need to resolve the current crisis in order to enable refugees to return to their countries. A component related to trade and cultural relations between Belgium and Rwanda was also planned. I met Belgian entrepreneurs who told me about some of the current difficulties and I introduced the Rwandan Minister of Trade and Industry to a particularly dynamic business incubator in Kigali. Finally, both in Tanzania and Rwanda, I obviously met with representatives of civil society who expressed their concern about public space. Beyond the electoral calendars of other countries, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the opening of public space remains a constant concern. We are moving towards elections in Rwanda and there is a very clear message about the maximum possible opening of public space in order to allow for a genuine democratic and electoral debate in Rwanda. We are going to have the same situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo where we are already seeing a tightening of this public space. We have some concerns about the way some authorities behave, particularly in the areas of police and justice. That is why I mentioned, at the end of April, the problems of individual responsibility of all those who have a role to play in this field. I would like to welcome the calm climate in which the meetings took place in Rwanda, but even more so in Tanzania, where they are trying to play an active role in helping to resolve regional difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u27	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u28	Minister, I would like to talk to you about the ongoing negotiations to sign a new trade agreement with Africa, including Burundi. The negotiation of this agreement can raise a question of political coherence at European Union level when we know that the European Union and several of its Member States have chosen to cut any direct aid to the Burundian government. Minister, can you give us the Belgian Government's position on the Burundian question in this case? Have you ever discussed this issue with your European counterparts and, if so, are you considering establishing a mechanism for the time it will take for Burundi, in the context we know?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u29	Mr President, my question is more general since it concerns all the ACP countries (Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific). The European Union has been engaged for more than ten years in the negotiation of Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) with the ACP countries. The EPAs provide for the immediate and full opening of the European Union market, while granting ACP countries 15 years to open their markets to European imports. For so-called sensitive sectors, this period may be up to 25 years. Minister, what is the basis for saying that EPAs will support the diversification of local economies? What about the non-execution clause after the expiry of Cotonou? The articles referring to human rights will no longer have any legal basis. What will be the content of the post-Cotonou global agreement once the EPAs are implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the European Union concluded negotiations on economic partnership agreements with West, Southern and East Africa. The implementation of these agreements before 1 October 2016 is important. Indeed, while least developed countries in any case benefit from access to the European market for almost all their exports under the Everything but Arms initiative, established since 2001 by the European Union, which exempts them from customs duties and import quotas, the EPA enables African countries to maintain access to the European market on average incomes. It is very important that these middle-income countries can also be included in this evolution of access to the European market. EPA tariff preferences are horizontal in nature and therefore create a clear framework for diversification of African economies. In this regard, the findings of an independent study carried out by the University of Leuven for the European Commission within the framework of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals indicate that European tariff preferences have led to an increase in the diversification of exports from LDCs to the European Union by more than 25%. Non-execution clauses are indeed an important lever for human rights and sustainable development. When asked by my services, the European Commission has shared its analysis that these clauses will continue to apply, even after 2020, because of the general commitment of the parties to the EPAs to contribute to poverty reduction and eradication, in line with the objective of sustainable development, the Millennium Development Goals and the Cotonou Agreement acquis. The EPAs also contain a revision clause which allows them to be revised, as the name indicates, in the event of the expiry of the Cotonou Agreement, which would allow guarantees to be strengthened if necessary. However, Belgium has already taken the initiative, together with its European partners, to launch preparations for the post-Cotonou era. Although it is still too early to move forward on the content of an agreement after the expiry of the Cotonou Agreement in 2020, a phase of reflection is under way, both within the European Union and within the ACP Group. I return to the EPA concluded at the end of 2014 with the East African Community. The Member States of the European Union and the Commission are about to sign this agreement with a development cooperation component. The human rights provisions had indeed been discussed at length with the countries of East Africa. During the negotiations, which took place during the previous term of office, Belgium actively supported the Commission in holding to this point. A solution was finally found in the form of a clause linking the Economic Partnership Agreement with the essential elements of the Cotonou Agreement such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This agreement is therefore fully in line with our approach to Burundi's problem and enjoys the support of Belgium, at all levels of competence. I would also like to point out that Belgium supports the decision to suspend European aid to the Burundian authorities under the Article 96 procedure of the Cotonou Agreements and to align its cooperation policy vis-à-vis Burundi with European policy in this area, while maintaining its assistance to the population. However, this is a separate issue from the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the East African Community. I believe that we can make real progress in these agreements, but by being attentive to the means at our disposal to implement our guidelines on human rights and respect for democracy in a number of countries, which we have done by triggering procedures at European level concerning Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. Many concerns are raised with the implementation of these agreements, particularly with regard to the agricultural sector and small family farming structures in Africa. The fear is that African markets will be flooded with more competitive agricultural products and that agricultural sectors will disappear, with all the economic and social consequences this could have for small farmers. This could also increase the food dependence of several countries, even if some so-called sensitive products are excluded from market opening. Threats to the industrial sector are also mentioned, as are public finances in some countries. You seem to indicate that some studies show that this will have an advantage. Others seem more cautious and pessimistic about these benefits. This issue would require further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u33	Minister, the Republic of Maldives, a tourist destination, strictly applies sharia. In that country, seven-year-olds found guilty of stealing or drinking alcohol could still be sentenced to death from the age of 18. It is not to mention the humiliations and harassments suffered by tens of thousands of immigrants, employed in luxury hotels, novels and poetry which must go through Islamic censorship, the public stoning of adulterous women, early marriages, sometimes from the age of nine, or attacks by journalists and the penalties of flogging. Moreover, the terrorist threat is growing in this country. The small Islamic Republic is said to be, in proportion, one of the largest suppliers of fighters in Syria and Iraq, with several hundred jihadists. India is worried aloud. The Maldives is reportedly in the process of becoming a terrorist logistics base for future actions in South-East Asia. Minister, what are international bodies, including the European Union, doing to urge the Maldivian authorities to comply with their obligations under international human rights law? What are the possibilities for dialogue with this country and the attitude of Belgian diplomacy in this context? Are these items on the agenda during meetings with the Maldives authorities? How is the problem of the establishment of Daesh in this country addressed by the international coalition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u34	You're right. There have been worrying developments in the Maldives for some time, with a religious vision that can be described as more and more literary, and the departure of many Maldivians to Syria, as you yourself have mentioned. In the current international context, therefore, there is a real need to continue to engage in dialogue with the Maldivian Government. And this is all the more so since this country is a popular tourist destination for our citizens and for the citizens of other EU countries, which gives us a lever to get messages out. It is in this context that a political dialogue has just been conducted by the European Union with the Government of Maldives at the end of May 2016. There were three main themes: firstly, human rights, the consolidation of democracy and the strengthening of the judicial sector; secondly, tourism and the economy; and thirdly, the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. There was therefore a cover of all our interests during this dialogue and the opportunity was given to the European Union to express its concerns and to indicate its readiness to cooperate in these various areas. I will of course continue to do so with a member of the Government of Maldives. I will instruct our Ambassador accredited in Malé to do the same in his contacts with the local authorities. You are right to draw our attention, because this is one of many worrying situations, particularly in developments related to an international context of particular concern today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u35	Minister, one million tourists, 44% of whom are Europeans, bathe each year in the turquoise waters of the Maldives. We were talking about a boycott earlier, this is a country where crimes are regularly committed against children. Perhaps consideration should be given to setting up a tourism boycott towards that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u36	Mr President, Minister, the administrative detention procedure allows the Israeli army to detain a person for a maximum period of six months, renewable indefinitely, without charge or trial. The administrative detainee is usually imprisoned on the basis of information considered secret by the army, which will not be accessible to the detainee or his lawyer. For decades, thousands of Palestinians had been imprisoned as administrative detainees without any of them being informed of the reason for his imprisonment. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this on the basis of concrete cases. Mohammed Abu Sakha, 23, is a professor and artist at the Palestinian Circus School, supported by Belgian Cooperation. He was arrested by Israeli soldiers at Zaatara military checkpoint on 14 December, while travelling from his house to Jenin to Ramallah to attend a concert with his friends. He then appeared before the Salem Military Court on Tuesday, 22 December, where he was sentenced to administrative detention. No specific charges were brought against him. His administrative detention has just been extended on 13 June – again, without any reason. Have you received any information about him? Secondly, I wanted to address the case of Itiraf Rimawi, which we have already discussed, but according to recent information, he was released yesterday. That's pretty good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, like you, on Monday 13 June I learned of the six-month extension of the administrative detention of Mr Mohammed Abu Sakha. No comments were made by the Israeli authorities in this regard. With no more information at this stage, I cannot go beyond what you mentioned. With regard to Mr. Rimawi, his detention was also extended for three months until the end of April. The new theoretical term of his incarceration was the beginning of August. Prior to this extension, my services had obtained clarification from the Israeli authorities. Itiraf Rimawi's detention had been extended since your last question on 28 January for a period of four months, then shortened by one month. According to the Israeli authorities, the reason for his detention was that of terrorist activities. With the last renewal, his detention has been extended five times since his arrest, without trial. I take note of the information you gave me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u38	As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, our position on administrative detentions, both in these cases and in general, is very clear: we are opposed to such practices. Administrative arrests must be measures of an exceptional nature for a limited period of time, taking into account various guarantees such as respect for the rights of defence of the detainee and the right of the detainee to a fair trial, within a reasonable period of time. This position of Belgium was explicitly and directly recalled at various meetings I had during my last visit to the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u40	Mr President, Minister, during the Second World War, a number of Belgians unfortunately contributed to the collaboration with the Nazi occupier. Some have even been so engaged to fight alongside the German army and, worse still, within the sinister Waffen-SS. Despite their conviction by the post-war Belgian courts for acts of collaboration, these Belgian citizens still benefit from pensions paid by the German government as veterans within the German troops. Minister, this situation in itself poses an obvious moral difficulty. How is it possible that such collaborators - this is the Waffen-SS! - can still be paid by the German authorities today on account of their acts of arms in the Nazi forces? Since they are unfortunately Belgian citizens condemned at the time by our courts, what is Belgium's position on this issue? Have you ever talked about this with your German counterparts? How does Germany justify this affront to history, to the resistors, to all the victims of the Nazi regime and to their successors? What can Belgium do to stop this? I would also point out that this situation is all the more intolerable since, in parallel, several civilian victims of war, in particular Jewish victims, are still deprived today of a compensation pension on administrative grounds of permanent non-residence in Belgium, grounds which I personally consider excessive, unjust and absurd. It also appears that the amounts thus paid by Germany as pensions to former Belgian employees remain unknown to the Belgian tax authorities and are therefore not taxed. It seems that Germany does not transmit to Belgium the names of the beneficiaries or the amounts thus paid to them. This leads to a scandalous and surrealistic situation where pensions of former Belgian SS escape tax but not those of former Belgian prisoners of war in Germany or former resistors. How does the Belgian Government justify such indecent fiscal inequity to the detriment of the victims? Minister, do you have any estimates of the number of people involved and the amounts involved that are exempt from tax? Is the same problem repeated in similar ways in other European countries or is it a Belgian-German specificity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u41	We regularly vote on bills approving double taxation agreements, social security conventions and bank data exchange. What do these texts provide for in relation to this type of case? Last but not least, what can Belgium do to stop such a practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u42	This is a particularly delicate and painful issue when we know the situation of a number of people following the Second World War. Further reason not to draw hasty conclusions in our comments before knowing exactly the situation. In fact, the Minister of Finance has, I think, already had the opportunity to answer questions on the tax side, for example, on June 1, 2016, and I will come back to that. It stated, for example, that information from Germany and other States is transmitted by category of income and is used by the tax administration. I would point out that, at my request, our post in Berlin referred this matter to the competent German authorities. We have received a fairly large amount of documentation which is still under consideration. We are currently looking at all the elements that have been submitted to us. For the time being, it appears that Germany is paying allowances to persons residing abroad, who fought with the German armed forces during the Second World War and who suffered bodily harm. In Belgium, 30 people are said to be affected. Some of them could be Germans or rightholders. This would therefore be a very limited number of people, but the principle nevertheless requires a very precise approach with the German authorities. They confirm to us that these pensions are subject to an exchange of information with the Belgian authorities, provided that they are taxable. The tax rules are therefore fully respected. If this is not the case, if the taxation is not possible, the information is obviously not transmitted. This issue has also been the subject of debate in the German Parliament. I will continue to follow this file and am prepared to provide you with further information on this matter as soon as we have been able to analyse in more detail the documents that have been transmitted to us, or other documents that have been sent to us. Thus, I really hope that this situation can be examined by looking specifically at which case it is concerned and by knowing the treatment given to each case taken separately before drawing general conclusions. In view of the information that has been transmitted to us at present, this would concern some 30 persons, Germans or entitled persons. We will see to what extent we can correct this situation if we need to do so and we will do so if there are any difficulties in the transmission of tax information. That is not what is being said at the moment: tax information is actually being transferred to the Finance FPS today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u43	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you for this answer, but you will have to give this information to the Minister of Finance because I have just questioned him and he does not have that information. He doesn't have the figure you just quoted, because he told me he was still waiting for that figure from the German authorities. So he told me that he could not take a tax initiative because he did not have the necessary data. So I think it's important that you agree with the Minister of Finance because he didn't have that information half an hour ago. Secondly, I believe that the very principle of such allowances must be able to be condemned and arrested. It is not normal for some victims, especially Jewish, of the Nazi regime, because they left Belgian soil a few years after the war, to be unable to receive allowances, while some fighters on the Nazi side are receiving allowances today in Belgium; moreover, it goes without saying that the victims' allowances should not be imposed; that is clear, the Minister of Finance has just confirmed to me. So I would really like you to be able to deal with this very quickly. Other colleagues have already asked this question several months ago, but there is still no answer, no clear conclusion on this issue which is shocking us. It is important to put an end to this type of regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u44	We do not have any news from Mr Lachaert, so I suggest that we take his question No. Transform 12490 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u45	Minister, in recent weeks there has been a continuing form of contempt on the part of the Polish government for the widespread challenge to changes in media laws. These attacks can only cause us concern, as this affects the European project and its fundamental values, which seem to be increasingly fragile. Last month, I noted the lack of information on the follow-up to the procedure for safeguarding the rule of law in Poland following amendments to the media laws. Mr Minister, can you take stock of what this European procedure shows to Poland? Would it be possible to have a clear agenda of the procedure that will be followed once the recommendations are sent to Warsaw? Will Belgium vigorously maintain this procedure on the European agenda in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u46	Mr Blanchart, as far as the audiovisual sector is concerned, on 30 December 2015 the Polish President signed a transitional law on public broadcasting, which has led to a reorganization of the management of public channels and the dismissal and resignation of many journalists. The law which was to completely reform the governance of the sector from 1 July was postponed, but a new transitional law was adopted on 24 June to avoid the legal vacuum. The Act provides, inter alia, for the new National Media Council to take over the supervision of the public media. The European Commission initiated the procedure for safeguarding the rule of law vis-à-vis Poland on 13 January. This decision was motivated by concerns about the new legislation on the functioning of the Constitutional Court and the media. An intensive dialogue ensued between the Commission and the Polish authorities. Despite the efforts of the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, and numerous meetings at several levels, no progress has been made. On 18 May, the College of Commissioners again discussed the issue and considered a draft opinion on the rule of law in Poland. Prior to the adoption of this opinion, Commissioner Timmermans visited Poland again on 24 May, as the Polish Government has not yet taken the necessary concrete steps. Finally, on 1 June, the Commission formally adopted a warning opinion. However, it gave priority to the case of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. It is only indirectly that the Media Act is addressed. One of the complaints about the functioning of the Constitutional Court is that it would not ensure effective constitutional control of new laws, including media legislation. There is obviously a link between the two files. The Polish authorities reportedly replied on 24 June, highlighting the work under way at the legislative level, in order to find a political compromise linked to the functioning of the court. The reply is considered by the Commission. If deemed insufficient, the Commission could decide to make a recommendation. The second phase of the procedure for monitoring the rule of law would then be initiated. This procedure is in the hands of the Commission, which is not bound by a timetable. Of course, I support the initiatives of the Commission, which is simply assuming its role as guardian of the Treaties. As I have already indicated, however, I am convinced that this procedure, if necessary, is not sufficient. Regular dialogue should be established within the Council of the European Union on respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in all Member States. I have made proposals in this direction, which have so far received increasing support. Efforts to reach out to other Member States are continuing. It would be to organise an annual review of the rule of law and individual rights in all Member States, just as a review of budgets is organised. There is no reason why too much time should be devoted to examining deficits, indebtedness or structural reforms and their budgetary consequences, but that the same energy should not be devoted to examining the situation of rights in all Member States. The proposal seeks to ask the Commission to present this situation in each of the states through existing documents at the United Nations, the Council of Europe or the European institutions, and to make recommendations. This would allow the General Affairs Council to examine this situation and not wait until a more complex situation appears in a particular State before reacting, as is the case with the current procedure. So I confirm both that we are following closely and supporting the Commission's initiatives in the specific case of Poland, but this is insufficient and I think we should go further, with an annual review of the rights situation in all the Member States of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u47	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. It is all the more important to ensure this control because the recent popular marches in Warsaw, linked to the 1993 Abortion Law change, are complicated, in a context where the media are completely muzzled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u48	Minister, over the past three months, the NGO Human Rights Watch has reportedly reported more than 400 deaths as a result of violence by the police and security services against the Oromo ethnic group during generally peaceful demonstrations. Having started on the basis of a project to expand the Addis Ababa administrative area, the movement has now become widespread. Minister, what information does our embassy in Addis Ababa give you about these ethnic tensions? How is the political situation in that country changing? What are our country's relations with Ethiopia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u49	Mr President, I also had an answer to question No. Mr Luykx. So I have an answer in both languages. That may not be a major problem for Mr Blanchart. In the general election of May 2015, the ruling Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front secured 100 % of parliament seats. This result says enough about the political system, although it must also take account of a certain degree of satisfaction in rural areas about progress and the fear of change. There is far-reaching government control over politics, security, the economy and the private sphere. So the road to democracy is still very long. Ethiopia is praised for its stability and spectacular economic growth. Recently, however, growth slowed down to 4.5 % and increased domestic and regional tensions were observed. November 2015 was the beginning of a period of months of unrest in Oromiya, the largest of the nine federal states with more than 30 million inhabitants, mainly of Oromean origin, being the largest tribe in Eastern Africa. The confrontations between the protesters, often students, and police forces were often violent. A number of police officers lost their lives and more than 200 demonstrators were killed. The reason for the tensions was the Capital Master Plan of the City of Addis Ababa District, which is located in Oromiya. The CMP would expand the city and make room for the development of industry, transport channels and so on. In other regions of Ethiopia, it was also uneasy. However, with regard to the possible ethnic nature of repression, I do not have more than the report which Mr Luykx quotes in his question. On the border dispute, I can tell you that on 12 June 2016 heavy fighting took place at the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea at Tsorona. It is unclear who is at the root of the serious skirmishes. However, Ethiopia would have stated that it was one of the toughest fights in years with a significant number of victims on both sides. There have often been incidents on the Eritrean border with Ethiopia, but this time there would have been a very serious military build-up on both sides of the border. The battles follow only a few weeks after the celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Eritrean independence. President Isaias Afewerki then gave a remarkable speech about external enemies. Although it currently appears that there will be no further escalation, it cannot be excluded that the incident is the harbinger of a new war between the archenemy Ethiopia and Eritrea. Mr Blanchart, the objective of the European Union, by strengthening its strategic partnership with Ethiopia, is not only to address the migration issue but also to take advantage of the opportunity offered by this consolidation of relations, and hence the number of meetings at different levels, in order to dialogue on issues of good governance, as well as human rights. At the beginning of 2016, the European Parliament adopted a joint resolution (point 2520) on the situation in Ethiopia. The Commission calls, inter alia, for a credible, transparent and independent investigation into the killing of demonstrators and the various alleged human rights violations that have engulfed the protest movement and calls on the Ethiopian Government to bring those responsible before the competent courts. The resolution also calls on the European Union, as the largest donor, to closely monitor programmes and policies to ensure that European Union development assistance is not used to violate human rights in Ethiopia. At the bilateral level, although Ethiopia is not a partner country in our Development Cooperation, Belgium is, however, present at the level of university cooperation, as well as indirect cooperation through NGOs. Commercial relations have been increasing in recent years (regional trade missions but also flights from Ethiopian Airlines) and the tourism sector is also developing. Ethiopia is also seen by the international community as an important partner for peace and security in the unstable Horn of Africa. Personally, I did not meet the Ethiopian Prime Minister during his visit to Brussels last June, but an interview with our Prime Minister took place on 16 June. In general, in my meetings with Ethiopian officials or in my meetings with the Ethiopian Ambassador in Brussels, we do not fail to raise the issue of human rights, as well as the issue of good governance. The same is also true of the EU ambassadors based in Addis Ababa, who put these points on the agenda of their regular meetings with local authorities in the framework of the Article 8 dialogue of the Cotonou Agreements. As I said, these meetings also allow us to evoke the regional framework that is – as you know – particularly disturbed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u50	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for his very comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u51	Minister, as an introduction to my question, I would like to say that the world is rarely white or black. I am the first, moreover, to denounce the unacceptable abuses or behaviour of the Israeli government, whether it concerns the occupation or installation of buildings where they should not be built. Having said that, I became green when information from the Gaza Strip reported that convicts would soon be executed – I'm not talking about Israel – in response to the demand from victims' families, as the law allows in Palestine. These ordinary prisoners were sentenced for murder, one of the three grounds for the death penalty - the other two being cooperation with Israel and drug trafficking. However, since the establishment of the Palestinian Authority in 1994, of the 170 death sentences, only - if I may say so - thirty have been executed, the Palestinian law providing for a prior agreement of the President of the Palestinian Authority before any execution. Hamas relies on the fact that Abbas's mandate has expired since 2009 to ensure that no execution can be cancelled according to his will. Clearly, he's short-circuiting the president. There is also a chilling detail: the Gaza Attorney General, who stressed the exceptional nature of the event, called on a large crowd to come and attend. This is somewhat reminiscent of the 17th or 18th century in France, where the balconies overlooking the place where executions took place were very expensive. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, one of the objectives of our diplomacy, as you recall in all your policy statements, is the abandonment of capital punishment throughout the world. Can you tell us what exchanges you had with the Palestinian authorities in this regard? Have you had any discussions about the abolition of capital punishment with the Gazaoui leaders in the past and, above all, since this announcement with great publicity? Can you tell us what the positions of the two entities concerned are in this regard? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, our country is concerned about the future of Gaza. He participated in the creation of equipment and infrastructure. It is working to develop its cooperation, particularly in the field of education, which is an indispensable tool for cultural and economic development. You are also promoting the development of economic exchanges that promote an improvement in the daily lives of Gazans. Therefore, in the name of our country's strong relations with the Palestinians, is there any way, in your opinion, to alter this decision? Thank you for your response and for the follow-up you will give to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u52	Mr Flahaux, as you pointed out, Belgium is opposed to the death penalty. We are calling for the abolition of it all over the world and, as you say, in the Palestinian territories. We have also wanted to participate in all the meetings of all these countries that wish to develop this policy of abolishing the death penalty throughout the world. Recently, I think it was the Minister of State, Armand De Decker, who took part in the last meeting in Oslo, where we have again reviewed the progress made with regard to abolition or moratoriums on the death penalty. This constant position, which I believe is not ambiguous, we publicly defend it in contacts with all our partners but also with the Palestinian Authority. I have done so again in recent contacts, not only in our bilateral contacts but also in the contacts that the European Union has with the Palestinian Authority. I must tell you that a de facto moratorium is respected by the Palestinian Authority. We also urge him to go further in this direction and, if possible, to abolish the death penalty from his legislative arsenal. As you also know, Gaza is not under the control of the Palestinian Authority as such, but under the control of Hamas, which, both for Belgium and for the European Union as a whole, is a terrorist organization. Therefore, we have not had any contacts or exchanges with Hamas on the death penalty or on any subject whatsoever. I fully understand your concern when we see the situation in this part of the territories, not only in terms of the Palestinian Authority's ability to control it, but also in terms of the application of a number of practices that are not tolerable to us, as in the eyes of the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u53	Thank you, Minister. I am satisfied with your answer, and I invite all those who have Palestinian friendships to plead in this regard, because this obviously serves the Palestinian cause completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 12563 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u55	Mr President, Minister, at the Foreign Affairs Council on 20 June 2016, the question of the Sahel was discussed. A debriefing of the 17 June meeting between the High Representative and G5 Sahel ministers (Mali, Niger, Burkina, Mauritania and Chad) was on the agenda. Can you tell us more about the elements that have been shared within this framework? Can you also take stock of the general approach to the European Union's engagement in the Sahel? What conclusions have been adopted on this subject and what has been Belgium's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u56	Mrs Grovonius, Belgium attaches great importance to the stability of the Sahelian region and devotes substantial human and financial resources to it, not least in the context of its bilateral cooperation policy but also in the framework of CSDP missions. At the beginning of July, Belgium resumed command of the European training mission of the Malian army (EUTM Mali), whose Belgian contingent increased from 90 to 175 military personnel. I support the European Union's increased engagement in the region and during the Council, I expressed my satisfaction with the dialogue initiated by the High Representative with the G5 countries. In terms of principles, we support a strengthening of the regional approach of CSDP missions aimed at better security collaboration among G5 countries. In fact, I wanted to deepen the question of the Sahel at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the six founding states of the European Union held in Brussels on 20 May, because it is a region where the Union can make a difference. The instability of this region can have an impact on us both in terms of migration and security. This meeting of the six founders helped to consolidate a position before participating in Union-wide meetings. The meeting of the High Representative and Ministers of the G5 Sahel on 17 June helped to consolidate the strategic partnership between the European Union and the G5. It also provided an opportunity to take stock of the implementation of the European Union-G5 Roadmap adopted in November 2015. The common priorities between these five countries and the European Union have also been reaffirmed: combating terrorism, irregular migration and illegal trafficking. The analysis of the situation in the Sahel is unanimous: the country remains subject to considerable security, socio-economic and humanitarian challenges. The European Union and these five countries have also reaffirmed that youth is one of the priorities of their actions. The European Union adopts a multidimensional approach in the Sahel through, inter alia, its "Shellen Strategy". In addition to extensive development work, the European Union is present in the Sahel with three CSDP missions. The European Union's Special Representative, Mr Losada, wants to make the approach more regional. Moreover, as evidenced by the meeting on 17 June, the European Union is conducting a high-level political dialogue and is active on the migration issue, in particular through the Trust Fund set up in Valletta. I had asked Mr Losada to come to the meeting of the six founding countries in Brussels – what he did – to explain to us the evolution of this logic towards the five countries of the region. From the conclusions adopted at the Council, I note mainly the European Union's commitment to supporting the region and the renewed support for the G5; the concern about the increase in trafficking, particularly in migrants and human beings, in a more general way; and the European Union's readiness to help the countries of the region in the fight against this phenomenon. This is La Valette's action plan. All these elements were highlighted, as well as the importance of adopting a comprehensive approach to addressing the challenge of population growth and the priority given to youth. Finally, the implementation of the action plan adopted at the Valletta Summit is also essential. It is important to demonstrate to our partners that our commitments translate into concrete action through the adoption of projects under the Trust Fund. These projects must have real added value. In addition to the European Union budget to which we are contributing, I would remind you that Belgium is, after the Netherlands, the second largest national contributor to this trust fund. I think this is a case in which the European Union can make a difference, whatever the winner of today's stage at the Tour de France! It has the capacity to show that, in this region, it is possible to use national initiatives in support of the European Union and not the other way around, as is often the case around the world. It is in this spirit that we participated in these meetings with the six founding members first, but also with the Foreign Affairs Council and that we are putting in place an increasingly active approach in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u57	Mr President, I will not comment on the Tour de France!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u58	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thanks to an extremely interesting and detailed investigation published by Le Monde on Tuesday 21 June, we learned that the Lafarge Group paid taxes in Daesh between 2013 and 2014 to operate its Jalabiya cement factory in northern Syria during the war which is unfortunately still ongoing. Thus from 2013, the presence of Daesh in the region prompted the French cement manufacturer to negotiate rights of passage to the various check points held by the jihadists for its carriers. At the same time, Lafarge supplied oil to crude dealers from fields owned or occupied by the terrorist organization. For a year, Lafarge therefore indirectly contributed to the financing of Daesh. These financial flows ceased on September 19, 2014, when the jihadists themselves took possession of the company Lafarge in Jalabiya. As a reminder, the GBL group managed by Belgian investor Albert Frère is a shareholder of 9.4% of what has become, today, LafargeHolcim since the two companies merged. Before the merger between Lafarge and Holcim, which took place in July 2015, the holding company of our compatriot had about 20% of the shares of the French cement manufacturer. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you tell me whether the FPS Foreign Affairs has drawn up a list of Belgian or Belgian companies active in Iraq and Syria? If so, how many are they? In addition, we know your commitment to economic diplomacy. Indeed, you attach great importance to the economic issue in our political and diplomatic relations. Can you tell me what guidelines the government has transmitted to Belgian companies or Belgian capital companies in the fight against the financing of the terrorist organisation in Iraq and Syria? In what forms have these recommendations been transmitted? Have you taken any steps with the GBL Group to protest strongly against this proven economic collaboration with Daesh, which is totally in violation of Belgian laws aimed at combating the financing of terrorist acts, but also of the positions and interests defended by the government in its current fight against Daesh, both diplomatically and militarily? Finally, given the important gap between these economic initiatives, on the one hand, and Belgian laws and diplomatic positions, on the other hand, do you intend to ask your colleague in charge of justice to assert his right to a positive injunction so that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office can investigate the involvement of Belgian and Belgian-owned companies in this sinister case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u59	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the SPF Foreign Affairs does not have a list of Belgian or Belgian companies active in Iraq and Syria. However, depending on your question, I have asked the Agency for Foreign Trade, which has information mainly from regional entities which have the primary competence in this field. This information includes 997 Belgian companies operating in Syria and 865 companies operating in Iraq. There are a number of countries for which import, export and transit restrictions have been imposed. These restrictions are based on United Nations resolutions such as resolutions 2161 and 2170 or European Union directives. The SPF Foreign Affairs has placed on its website a series of information on the sanctions regimes of the United Nations and Europe. All this information is available to companies on the same website. The FPS Foreign Affairs also sends all new information or changes to the relevant authorities, both federal and federated, on a regular basis. The restrictions cover the import, export and transit of arms, ammunition, military equipment and equipment, as well as those intended for internal repression, and the provision of technical assistance or brokering and/or financial assistance. For these products, the regional licensing authorities (import, export and transit) are responsible. For the import, export and transit of goods and services which are at federal level, goods, technical assistance, energy sector, nuclear import and export, the FPS Economy is responsible. With respect to financial embargoes, the FPS Finance has jurisdiction. The implementation and monitoring of the implementation of this regulation is the responsibility of the various authorities I have just mentioned. I therefore invite you to question directly or indirectly the federal authorities and my colleague in charge of finance. It must also be taken into account that GBL is a shareholder of the firm LafargeHolcim, a Franco-Swiss company with its head office in Paris. It therefore falls first and foremost under French legislation. To the extent that you refer to facts from 2013 and 2014, I assume that the ministers present at the time in the regional governments have paid particular attention to this situation and have probably taken initiatives. I will not fail to question the regional executive on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u60	Mr Minister, thank you for providing me with the information obtained from the regional bodies. It is up to the federal government, and in particular the FPS Foreign Affairs – you know how important we are to meetings within the CEO – to coordinate policy between what you do at the diplomatic level, what Minister Vandeput does at the defence level and the economic initiatives that can be taken by the federated entities, particularly the Regions. It's about being consistent. In this case, there is a real problem, of course indirect financing of Daesh by a Belgian-owned company. Albert Brother is clearly an important shareholder of this company. It is clear that it is not at the level of the regions that it is up to us to check whether there is consistency between the economic activity of a large Belgian investor and diplomacy, as well as the military actions taking place in the region. It is your role to ensure coherence and to ensure that our country's image is not undermined by investments that reflect short-term incomes and not long-term investments, as well as political, diplomatic and military investments aimed at removing this terrorist group from the area in question. To do so, our State spends a great deal of resources, including military resources, and hopefully no human means!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament No 12685 by Mrs Claerhout and No 12685 by Mrs Scrivener and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u62	Mr President, excuse me, I had a question about Burundi, namely question No 12506. I am told that the question will be dealt with later with questions No 12685 by Mrs Claerhout and No 12885 by Mr Dallemagne. However, I would like to put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u63	I thought you agreed with our colleague Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u64	Mr President, I agreed with the Brexit report, but not with the one on Burundi, because it is not at all the same thing. The question was much more general. My question was about the trafficking of girls. I didn't understand why she was transferred, but I agreed. In that case, you should have let me put it at point 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u65	I get it. I thought you agreed with the transfer under item 25 and with the postponement. You can ask the question that was originally provided for under item 18. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u66	Thank you, Mr. President, for your understanding. This subject is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u67	Mr President, Minister, it seems that Burundian girls between the ages of 14 and 25 are leaving massively to Arab countries where they would be used for domestic and sexual purposes. The phenomenon would have grown to a great extent and would not date from yesterday. According to several associations, more than 2,500 young girls were sent to Arab countries in 2015. This information is made public while a mission of independent United Nations experts on Burundi is currently visiting Burundi for a few days, in order to take stock of the human rights situation. But my question is a little dated and I think they have already completed this mission of expertise. The Citizens' Movement for the Future of Burundi sent a letter to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights asking him to set up a group of independent experts to investigate this trafficking in young Burundian girls. Minister, do you confirm that you were aware of this traffic? Do you intend to discuss this issue with your European colleagues at a forthcoming meeting? Do you intend to propose to the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy to support the request to appoint a group of experts to investigate such trafficking in girls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u68	Mr President, I will leave the other elements of the answer for the questions turned into written questions. With regard to the odious trafficking in human beings that you are referring to, Mr Crusnière, several Burundian NGOs have indeed alerted international public opinion. The Burundian authorities responded immediately by initiating an investigation that resulted in the arrest, a few days later, of seven persons, three Burundians and four Kenyans. According to the police, eleven firms are involved in this human trafficking. These societies are Burundian but also Saudi, Omani and Kenyan. The Burundi Human Rights Commission has called for the establishment of an ad hoc commission to investigate the case and make recommendations. At the international level, the United Nations Office for Human Rights in Burundi is conducting its own investigation in collaboration with UNICEF and IOM. Thus, there are already international experts working on this issue. Our diplomats on the spot regularly inform each other about the progress of the investigations. I will of course continue to follow this matter closely. I will not hesitate to discuss this with my European colleagues but also with my Burundian interlocutors. This trafficking must be stopped immediately and the perpetrators who profit from the misery of these Burundian families punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u69	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is really a very important subject and we need to be attentive and follow this issue on a day-to-day basis. The echoes that come to us from Burundi are truly dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u70	Minister, in order to preserve security and public order, the governorate of Istanbul has announced that it will not authorize this year the pride scheduled for the end of June and which takes place annually in the largest city of Turkey, Istanbul. Istanbul's traditional "pride march" has taken place 12 times without incident in recent years, with thousands of people taking part in defending LGBTQI rights, becoming the most important manifestation of its kind in a Muslim country in the Middle East. However, since last year, the event has been banned. The question is whether it is "just" to refuse the organisation of a demonstration for reasons, which could possibly be legitimate, security, or whether it is a symptom or a deeper evil of receding rights for LGBTQI. I was present this year for this event. We can still understand that it is banned for security reasons, especially since an attack took place on the Tuesday following that weekend. However, the governorate has so far refused to allow the organizers to make a statement to the press on the elements which they considered important to defend in the context of their rights. That is why I think that a reason more profound than security has led to the ban on this demonstration. Minister, have you had any further information from our diplomatic representation on the spot, both on the organisation of the pride itself, and on the evolution of LGBTQI rights in this member state of the Council of Europe? Do you discuss this with your Turkish counterpart?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u71	Mrs Grovonius, I have already had the opportunity to repeat this on several occasions, the promotion and protection of human rights is a priority theme in our relations with third countries. Combating all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation, is a priority in this context. Our diplomatic posts in Turkey follow this issue closely, provide us with reports on developments and maintain regular contacts with LGBTI associations. In Istanbul, our Consulate General participates in coordinations with some partner countries to organize activities on the sidelines of the Pride. This is how we supported the screening of a Belgian film at the French Institute during the 2015 edition. The issue of respect for the human rights of LGBTI people is reflected in the annual assessment reports prepared by the European Commission for the candidate countries, including Turkey. In its latest report of November 2015, the Commission confirms our concerns about this, including the impunity of acts of discrimination and violence against LGBTI people, including the head of the police and security forces. Turkey is pointed out by unfavourable statistics on hate crimes, violence against such persons, including murder. The decision of the Constitutional Court in April 2015 not to lift the criminalization of unnatural sexual behaviour is an evolution that is not to reassure us since the jurisprudence shows us that it is from this perspective that homosexuality can be pursued. The European Parliament also expressed its views on this issue in its latest progress report on Turkey. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe is also following the matter closely and has issued a communiqué following the cancellation of the prayer in Istanbul, in which he calls on Turkey to comply with its obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights, including freedom of expression and assembly. In the past, I have addressed our human rights concerns with my Turkish counterpart and will continue to do so. During my visit to Ankara last March, I had the opportunity to speak with human rights defenders. Our Consulate General in Istanbul had organized a similar meeting for my colleague Alexander De Croo during his visit to Istanbul last May. Several LGBTI rights defenders attended the meeting. We will continue to intervene in this area in order to combat any form of discrimination and any negative developments that can be seen today, in Turkey or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. I must confess that I myself witnessed the muscular way, not to say anything else, of which the few demonstrators who wished to brave the ban were arrested. As you may have seen, German parliamentarians have also been untiringly arrested. Your answer confirms my feeling. It's really the symptom of a deep evil. We are witnessing a real regression in terms of rights. I hear that our diplomatic representation participates as it can in the activities of these organizations. This year, I found that other diplomatic posts were also active. This is obviously very encouraging. For example, the Swedish Embassy has made a significant contribution to the reception of a pride on a boat in Istanbul. I can therefore only encourage our representation in active participation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u73	Minister, on 24 June, an article by La Libre Belgique entitled "The Francophones of Flanders: Belgium discredits itself at the UN". Behind this title is the question of ratification of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. And above all the reasons why this ratification is so long overdue. Since 2001, associations representing French-speaking people in Flanders have been trying to make their voice heard in this debate and are advocating for ratification. Can you tell me what your official position is on this issue? Is there a federal government position on this issue? Which one? When will Belgium actually be able to ratify this Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u74	Mrs Grovonius, the position on this issue of the various political parties in Belgium is well known. Francophone parties have been seeking this consent since 2001 and the Flemish parties are not in favour of it. I note, moreover, that among the federated entities, only Flanders took a position on this subject in its government agreement. The item was also part of the agreements on the previous reform of the State. Work had begun, moreover, at the very end of the previous legislature. That is why I have also taken the initiative to put this issue on the agenda of the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Policy (ICFE) and to propose that a working group be re-established to deal with this issue, especially the definition of minorities. This group met for the first time in June and set out a programme of work. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have presented to the United Nations the position of all the components of Belgium, namely that of all the federated and federal entities, through their governments, as for any matter falling within the competence of both the Federal and the Regions or Communities. The language used in the document submitted to the United Nations and explaining why Belgium has not committed itself to ratifying the Convention is therefore a reflection of the diversity of views within our country that you know well. I will probably be able to explain this diversity of views in other types of international agreements in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u75	I thank the Minister for his response and look forward to hearing the diversity of views between our various entities, on CETA or other agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u76	Since Mr Fonck is absent, I would like to put to her question No. 12776 to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u77	Mr President, Minister, it is no longer surprising, I would even say that it has become usual, to learn the stories of arrests of journalists and academics in Turkey, despite the recent negotiations between the European Union and Turkey, which have as their object the need for greater respect for freedom of the press and human rights. As a member of the Council of Europe, Turkey is also a candidate for membership of the European Union. We can therefore only be very concerned about this situation. In addition to our activities at European Union level, what is the Belgian government doing in its bilateral relations with Turkey to highlight the importance of respect for human rights, the press and freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u78	Mr Blanchart, thank you for once again giving me the opportunity to discuss respect for human rights in Turkey, and in particular freedom of the press and expression. Like you, it is with concern that I see the infringements of these fundamental rights in Turkey. You are referring to the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey. We have at this level of leverage to encourage reforms. I am thinking in particular of the European requirement to revise the definition of terrorism and of how the legislative framework is interpreted by the courts and the law enforcement agencies. It is on the basis of the legislation currently in force that many journalists or academics are being prosecuted. This requirement is also extended to the bilateral level. I made a very clear statement on this subject during my recent talks in Brussels with the Turkish Ministers for European Affairs on 12 May and 29 June. In Turkey, we are also taking concrete action to defend freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I regularly instruct our diplomats to attend trials against journalists and human rights defenders. It is a concrete testimony of our support, which we also manifest to them in ongoing interviews and contacts. Important work is also being done at the level of the Council of Europe institutions and the legal framework through the opinions of the Venice Commission. Through the publication of their interventions and reports, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Council's Commissioner for Human Rights are also making important efforts to raise awareness of existing gaps and violations. We will not fail to include this analysis in bilateral discussions at all levels. I'll confirm two more things. In the debate on visa liberalisation, we have obviously placed great emphasis on amending the legislation on terrorism, which is a major element of the European position. As regards the second element, what you have mentioned and the elements of the answer I give you support us in the idea that we really need to open the chapter of the accession negotiations with Turkey, not because we would have the will to see Turkey join quickly, but in order to have real means of discussion, dialogue and pressure as regards the functioning of justice and individual rights. I still regret that this negotiation has been interrupted for many years. This has deprived us of these direct modes of action towards the Turkish authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u79	Mr Minister, the Turkish market is much more dependent on Belgium than the other way round. I think that we really need to take advantage of this situation, of this economic imbalance, to be more vivid in our responses to the breaches of democracy and freedom of expression in Turkey, a little like what France has just done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u80	Minister, the UN is a key organization for the representation and protection of fundamental human rights, of which the rights of LGBT people are de facto part. Some of the countries represented at the UN, however, clearly do not share this view and do not respond to the persecution of their LGBT citizens. In some cases, they inflame them themselves. For example, several states have reportedly blocked the participation of eleven LGBT NGOs or supporting LGBT causes in an AIDS congress, with the aim of finally stopping the evolution of the epidemic before 2030. Minister, what has been your position and that of the Belgian delegation to the UN in this context? Does our delegation intend to continue to put on the agenda the need to discuss the importance of LGBT representation in the UN? More generally, how are the various debates on the issue of their rights around the world, particularly within the United Nations, and on infringements of these rights, as is the case in Russia? Is this a theme put forward by the Belgian delegation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u81	Mr Blanchart, like you, I will continue to talk about LGBTI, although I know that one can sometimes add a category by referring to LGBTQI. You are aware that the issue of the human rights of LGBTI people is a priority, as I have just pointed out in response to a previous question, of Belgian foreign policy. Our position, which is in line with that of the European Union, is that, as with any human rights issue, civil society has an essential role to play, whether at national level or in international forums. This commitment was illustrated by the fact that, as a member of the NGO Committee of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, Belgium has obtained and supported the acquisition by LGBTI NGOs of consultative status, which enables them to participate not only in the work of Ecosoc, but also in the work of its subsidiary bodies, in the numerous UN human rights mechanisms and in special events organised by the President of the General Assembly. It was therefore with great attention that our diplomats in New York, my administration and I followed the events that took place prior to the five-year high-level meeting on AIDS, held at the United Nations in New York in early June. Following Egypt's sending, on behalf of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation, a letter to the President of the General Assembly of the United Nations requesting the exclusion of the LGBTQI NGO from the said meeting, the European Union sent a letter of protest to the President of the Assembly, along with other countries such as the United States and Canada. At the meeting itself, we joined the European Union statement in which the essential role of LGBTQI NGOs is recalled and we protest against the lack of transparency and inclusiveness in the choice of NGOs invited to the meeting. In our national declaration, we reiterated Belgium's position on the importance of an integrated approach to eradicating AIDS, a multisectoral approach involving all stakeholders and based on human rights. Belgium is particularly active in the field of LGBTQI human rights, particularly at the United Nations. Our country is part of the core group dedicated to the issue of sexual orientation and gender identity in Geneva, and has done important substantive work in this regard when it was a member of the Human Rights Council, in particular, prior to the historic adoption by the Council of resolution 1719 "Human rights sexual orientation and gender identity" in June 2011. Since then, we have not released this effort, despite worrying developments on the issue, given the growing opposition of a number of African countries as well as others such as the Russian Federation. Notwithstanding this growing opposition, Belgium and like Minded countries managed, through an awareness-raising and negotiation campaign in Geneva and at capital level, to secure the vote on resolution 2732 "Human rights sexual orientation and gender identity" by the Human Rights Council in June 2014. We are currently working with other countries active in this area to ensure a new resolution on the issue of violence against LGBTQI, which calls for the appointment of an independent expert on this issue. We hope that it will be welcomed by the Human Rights Council at its current 32nd session, since we have been members since the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers. I recall that transgender people are 49 times more likely to get the AIDS virus in their lives. Their presence and representation are therefore imperative for the proper assessment of the factors necessary for the success of such congresses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u83	Mr Minister, the Ambassador of Tunisia to Belgium recently sent you a letter in order to obtain a review of the negative opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee on Tunisia. According to the ambassador, tourism is the main engine of the Tunisian economy. It accounts for 7% of GDP and 500,000 jobs are directly dependent on this sector. For the past year, many people have been out of work because tourists are slow to return to Tunisia. According to the Ambassador, Tunisia has made every effort to ensure optimal security in public places (pledges, hotels, museums). Minister, can you tell me whether you intend to review the opinion of your services on Tunisia and the reasons for your position? I think, and perhaps more so with the recent events in Turkey and even if I do not want to make a comparison, that many people do not understand that Tunisia is struck by this negative opinion when a country like Turkey is not. This gives rise to a feeling of double standards which deserves to be explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u84	Mrs Grovonius, I would like to inform you that I have not received any letters from the Ambassador of Tunisia. We have also expressed our somewhat astonished reaction to this with the embassy, since I have become aware, like you, through the press, of what would have been a letter from several people but which is a kind of open letter that never came to me live. On the other hand, I can reassure you. I have contacts with my counterpart, the Tunisian Foreign Minister, and I really regret the behaviour of the ambassador accredited in Brussels. The door of my department is open and I do not think that this technique is the most appropriate. The second point I want to make is that we publish travel notices that are intended to give the most objective information possible to our compatriots who wish to travel abroad, regardless of their destination. Therefore, contrary to what I hear or what I sometimes read, there is no prohibition to visit the country. The bans, as far as we can issue them, concern only a few countries, such as Syria, which I do not take at random and which is even more strongly mentioned. If tour operators have cancelled their activities to Tunisia, I would remind you that the flights from Tunisair are still in operation. If a number of people wish, as I often hear, to support Tunisian activity in particular, I think that travelling to Tunisia with the flights from Tunisair is not a bad solution. I repeat, we give travel notices, we do not forbid anyone to go to a country like Tunisia. I am somewhat sorry to hear all the comparative comments from one country to another. I sometimes feel that we want to push the FPS Foreign Affairs to go further in an already very restrictive travel notice towards Turkey. As far as Turkey is concerned, I just want to point out that the travel notice must be read: it calls for greater vigilance, it recalls all the events that have taken place and, unfortunately, the last attack at Istanbul airport, it formally recommends, just as for Tunisia, a number of eastern provinces that are affected by armed conflicts today, but it does not go beyond areas, especially on the coast, which have not been affected by terrorist attacks. If you look at the map, you will find that the size of Turkey is actually slightly different from that of Tunisia. I really cannot accept the assertions or insinuations that speak of double standards. We are working on the basis of the opinions of the security services and we are trying, in collaboration with the countries, to see how best to respond to the concern of our citizens – I receive it regularly – which is to ask us what the opinion of the FPS Foreign Affairs regarding a particular destination is today. I insist: read the different opinions and you will see that a number of countries are involved. I would also like to make it clear that I fully recognize the considerable efforts that have been made by the Tunisian authorities to improve the safety of foreign visitors to their territory. I fully understand the difficulties facing the Tunisian tourism sector today, as many other tourism sectors in many other countries are suffering the consequences of the attacks, whatever they may be, carried out throughout the world. I will not recall the situation that our country, like others, is experiencing in this area. The slowdown in activity was linked to known situations in both Paris and Brussels. Following the attacks in Sousse in June 2015 – there had already been the attack at the Bardo Museum in Tunis, where I went a little later – was created a forum bringing together, in addition to the Tunisian authorities, the G7 countries plus five other partners, including Belgium, nicknamed the G7+5. This forum provided an opportunity to exchange important information for improving safety, including Tunisian tourist sites, and to set up exercises within the framework of the Tourism and Sensitive Sites Working Group. Internships and training courses have been successfully organised in Sousse and Hammamet and more exercises are planned in Tunis, Djerba and Tozeur in the coming months. The enthusiastic cooperation of both the authorities and the Tunisian tourism sector should be stressed. The progress made since the G7+5 was introduced is encouraging. However, they do not allow us to change our travel notice yet. Several other European countries have the same analysis as ours. It is true that others report increased vigilance. But a number of European countries have exactly the same attitude as ours. I would point out that both in the Bardo attack and in the Sousse attack, we had to count Belgian victims, which obviously also has an impact on the situation, particularly among tour operators. The attack on Sousse, contrary to what I have read in recent weeks, is unfortunately not the last one in Tunisia. Since then, there have been at least a few dozen incidents leading to deaths in terrorist attacks. I would like to mention two particularly: on the one hand, the very recent murderous attack in March 2016 on the city of Ben Guerdane, just 100 km from Djerba, and, on the other hand, the numerous security incidents of the last few months, including a suicide attack on the presidential guard in Tunis, which resulted in more than a dozen deaths. This continues to cause a number of concerns about the ability of the security forces to avoid such situations, as they have been directly affected by an attack, and since the Sousse situation. Moreover, the porosity of the long border between Tunisia and Libya remains problematic. It should also be noted that the Tunisian authorities, on their own initiative, decided on 20 June to extend the state of emergency by one month. I would like to confirm that we continue to follow closely the developments on the ground with our embassy and our usual partners. We will adapt the travel notice as soon as circumstances permit. Of course, I am not going to read you the list of incidents that we have listed in recent years and, in particular, in recent months in Tunisia. We are particularly concerned about this security situation. We are quite convinced of the harmful impact this situation has on the country's tourism activity. I intend to continue working live with the government authorities in Tunis and not to continue imagining a work by means of the press, whether with the ambassador or with other people who, I repeat, if they really wish to go to Tunisia, can do so by borrowing Tunisair but knowing what is the opinion of the trip that we are trying to give, in an objective way, to all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u85	A few months ago, on behalf of my group, I tabled a bill calling for an end to the declaration of protection of nationality for Belgians abroad. The initiative was welcomed by many actors, including the Federal Ombudsman and yourself, during the budget discussion. Despite this, this bill was rejected by the majority. We were told at the time that a working group would be set up. Minister, I therefore come back to you so that you can give me the latest developments on this issue at the government level. Could you tell me the progress of this working group on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u86	Mr Crusnière, contrary to my answers to other questions that you have asked, I will be able to be very brief this time, confirming that my services participate constructively in a working group under the FPS Justice. I believe that there is indeed progress to be made in this area and I welcomed your proposal. In substance, I would refer you to my colleague from Justice, who is referred to as a "guardian of nationality". I confirm that we are going to work constructively on this. I do not withdraw anything from what I said when you introduced your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for that confirmation. I think it was a constructive and non-controversial proposal. I will ask the Minister of Justice about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u88	Questions Nos 12899 and 12900 by Mrs Sarah Claerhout are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u89	Minister, a new plan to curb migration was unveiled by the European Commission in early June. The new plan would be more oriented towards African countries, where migrants who have been arriving in Italy for several weeks would have come mostly from. The plan includes the use of European funds to promote private investment in African countries in order to provide future prospects for African countries. In return, the Commission would like to urge the states to better "master" the flow of migration to Europe via the Mediterranean. This idea was already mentioned at the Valletta Summit, which brought together the two continents last November. The European Union had then put on the table a €1.8 billion fund to be supplemented by the Member States. However, the results of this agreement are not yet tangible. Since the beginning of the year, some 2,500 migrants have died in the waters of the Mediterranean. In order to respond to the urgency of the situation, short- and long-term financial contributions for African countries would be mentioned in exchange for better control of migration flows and the conclusion of readmission agreements to facilitate return to countries of origin. Minister, the subject was discussed at the Council on 28 and 29 June 2016. Can you give us a debriefing of these discussions? Can you explain to us the position Belgium has taken on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u90	Mr Crusnière, the initiatives taken to manage the migration crisis – I mentioned earlier – have their effects. But you have to be careful. Our action has yet to be consolidated on several points. The results obtained at this stage remain fragile. While flows on the Eastern Mediterranean road have decreased sharply, crossings on the Central Mediterranean road continue at last year's level. This development needs to be closely monitored. In the conclusions of the European Council of 28 and 29 June, it is mentioned that "based on the Communication from the Commission, the European Union will rapidly establish and implement an effective partnership framework for cooperation with the different countries of origin or transit, based on effective incentives and adequate conditions, starting with a limited number of priority countries of origin or transit" The High Representative, including as Vice-President of the Commission, Federica Mogherini, will guide the implementation of this new approach and ensure close and effective coordination between the institutions and services of the European Union and the Member States so that the first pacts are concluded before the end of the year. Belgium believes that immediate measures such as the fight against smugglers should be developed, but also address the root causes of migration. The implementation of the Plan of Action of the Valletta Summit should contribute to this. I mentioned earlier our participation in the Trust Fund. We are the second contributor. We would like to see greater efforts in this area. On the Commission communication, Belgium supports the Commission's approach of establishing tailor-made partnerships, taking into account the specificity of each partner and mobilising all the Union's resources. Effective management of migration flows requires closer cooperation with countries of origin and transit and the use of all available instruments for this purpose. In any case, the initiative must be in strict compliance with our human rights and humanitarian law obligations. We also expect further clarification from the Commission, in particular on how to finance the investment fund and on the link between this new instrument and the existing financial instruments. I would remind you that, in the debate on the migration crisis, we have to fight in the countries of origin against the causes of departure. These are not only refugees, but also situations that cause departure and can be linked either to conflicts that endanger the lives of those present in the territory, or to governance, underdevelopment or non-development problems that lead to the departure of people driven by poverty. In this context, the approach is always the same to try to put an end to conflict situations by acting, both by military means where necessary, by humanitarian aid and diplomatic means to seek political solutions, but also by acting on transit countries, because there are traffickings linked to these situations and by trying to best meet our European commitments. In the current approach, we also stressed the need to resume, sooner or later, a debate on economic migration and thus not to focus exclusively on the situation of refugees. This debate will complement the necessary part on internal mobility within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u91	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u92	Mr Minister, we have witnessed developments on the Turkish foreign policy side. The normalization of diplomatic relations between Turkey and Israel is under way, both ensuring the restoration of diplomatic relations and the exchange of ambassadors as soon as possible. This restoration of their relations was also followed by an apology from President Erdogan to President Putin for the slaughter of a Russian fighter aircraft and the subsequent death of his pilot on 24 November. Minister, what analysis can be made of the geopolitical consequences in the region of these developments in Turkish diplomacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u93	Mr Blanchart, Turkey has indeed moved towards rapprochement with Israel and Russia. As you point out, the shooting down of a Russian aircraft by Turkish forces on 24 November 2015 has led to recent tensions between the two countries. In retaliation, Russia had adopted a series of measures which had severely affected the Turkish economy, in particular its tourism sector. On 27 June, President Erdogan sent a letter to President Putin, in which he expressed his wish for normalization of relations. This will was subsequently confirmed through formal contacts between the two parties. In addition, Turkey and Israel signed an agreement on 28 June, ending six years of tension. The agreement has already been endorsed by the security cabinet in Israel and should be adopted shortly by the Turkish Parliament. It seems to me premature to draw conclusions from these two rapprochements on a geopolitical level. The differences of opinion between Turkey and Israel, on the one hand, and Turkey and Russia, on the other, remain. We will continue to follow this development closely. We can, however, welcome the fact that the level of tension has fallen sharply and that the three countries, in their dual bilateral relations, have wished to embark on a process of calming down. But I do not think that we can go much further than welcome this development, before we see the concrete effects of the different countries on the international and particularly regional scene. The agreement between Turkey and Israel should allow the first to deliver aid to Gaza, with a first ship leaving on 1 July from the Turkish port of Mersin to the Israeli port of Ashdod with more than 10,000 tons of food and toys. However, this agreement does not call into question the restrictions on imports into the Gaza Strip as defined by Israel. Our position on Gaza is clear: like the European Union, Belgium calls for the complete lifting of the blockade and the opening of all crossing points. As I do every time, I draw your attention to the fact that this request relates to the crossing points for Israel, but that we are also concerned about Egypt's even stricter closure of access.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers and wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u95	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Terwingen, No 12942. 1 12945 by Mrs Van Hoof, No. Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Maelen; Mr Van der Mrs Grovonius, you will therefore have the honour to ask the last question of this year's operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u96	Mr President, my question needs to be completely revised in the light of recent developments. So I'm going to adapt it a little bit. As we know, Minister, CETA will indeed be considered a mixed treaty. The Joint Agreement must therefore be endorsed by both the European Union and the Member States. Commissioner Malmström said, however, that this agreement could be applied provisionally as soon as the Council and Parliament have given their green light. Mr Minister, what was Belgium's position at the Council meeting on 5 July? Did you plead for the mix of this agreement vis-à-vis all the parliaments of the Member States and therefore, de facto, for our federated entities? What will be your position on the provisional involvement of this Treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u97	Mrs Grovonius, of course we have to adapt our response to reality. There was no meeting on 5 July; therefore, there was no need to take any attitude. As regards the mixed or non-mixed nature, as I had announced, we were awaiting a proposal from the Commission on this matter. The Commission itself considers that the agreement that has been concluded with Canada must be the subject of a joint procedure. We have no comments on this. We will follow a mixed procedure. A Coreper meeting is expected to take place on 7 July. It will be an ambassadorial meeting. We have already announced, through my services, before we have a Commission text, to all governments of the different levels of power that there would be intra-Belgian coordination on Thursday 7 July to define Belgium's position on the draft decision. With regard to the provisional entry into force, I have not yet seen any Commission text on the subject. For the moment, what is acquired is the mixed nature of the Treaty. I confirm the position of the federal government to be fully supportive of this agreement with Canada. Indeed, we believe that we are dealing with a country that shares one of our national languages, since it belongs to the International Organisation of la Francophonie, which is very close to what we are defending, for example, in terms of health services, since it has a universal health system, and support for the public audiovisual sector, which often makes public operators of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation dream, since the budget aid they receive from it is much less and which, in many areas, is very close to the regulations of the European Union. Similarly, but this point which was to be discussed earlier has been transformed into a written question, the Federal Government would like to move forward as soon as the British authorities have implemented Article 50 of the European Treaties towards the way in which Britain's exit from the European Union is organised. Having said that, we also hope to make progress on how to define new relations with it. I have heard ministers-presidents say that they want to have excellent relations with British companies. I would point out that one of the Commission's proposals will of course be to conclude free trade agreements comparable to those signed with Canada. We will see the position of each of the entities in this regard. In any case, I confirm that the Commission has taken a position on the mixed nature. We do not have a proposal for provisional entry into force at this time. A coordination meeting will be held on 7 July. Finally, the federal government's position is very clear: it fully supports the implementation of this agreement with Canada.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u98	Minister, thank you. As we said earlier today, in all likelihood, this is precisely another issue on which the federal and federated entities will not necessarily adopt a common position. Yes, some will share the views of the federal government, as well as the minority agreement. Like you, I consider that agreements can be concluded with Canada in several areas. We should even draw inspiration from it sometimes. As a result, Canada has reversed its decision to delay the retirement age. However, we have already discussed on several occasions the problems posed by such free trade agreements. I am thinking of ISDS or its revised formula, which is a stumbling block. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this again in the coming weeks or even in the coming months. For now, I think we're all going back to our fathers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic469x.u99	Minister, I would like to give you the blue jersey, since all the questions have been answered, but I fear that Greg Van Avermaet's yellow jersey will put that tour in the shadows. So it doesn't really make much sense.
