ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u1	Mr Dallemagne has decided to remain on a commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u2	Minister, the two questions I am asking you today were addressed to Minister Reynders but have been redistributed to you and I have no doubt that they will be answered. The first concerns the establishment of the 7 e-gates at the Brussels-National airport. As we know, following the attacks in Belgium last March, many actors pointed to the lack of security at Zaventem airport. It is currently discussed in other rooms. In an oral question session with Minister Reynders, I also expressed my concern about the installation of these e-gates and the paradoxical nature of this automated system, since part of human control was being removed to the benefit of the "automatic whole" by disinvesting in our airport police, unfortunately. Now it's been a little over six months since they're operational and it looks like there's been some operational problems. Thus, for example, Zaventem's electronic portals do not work with Belgian ID cards. They must issue a signal when a person is wanted, but if it is a Belgian ID card, the signal does not work. There's no recognition. It is also known that people arriving in Brussels from a country outside the Schengen area have the choice of going through electronic portals or going through conventional control. Since we are just a few months away, I would have liked to have an initial assessment of what is being done, what steps are still going to be taken to correct the small deficiencies – and finally, the Belgian identity card is rather a big gap – and whether you intend to re-establish more classical human control after the events we have experienced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u3	Mr Crusnière, on July 10, 2015, the first six e-gates entered service. It is true that, initially, Belgian identity cards were not checked in BNG. The specifications provided for a reading device with a single entry accepting identity cards and passports and allowing BNG control of these two documents. The problem came from the difference in the design of the chip equipping the two types of documents. A document reader compatible with these two types of chips did not exist at that time in the market. The company that won the market has therefore developed a prototype to address this problem. The prototype that was to be ready in March 2015 was not ready until June 2015. The prototype was tested and finally put into production in September 2015. The last occurrence of the case, a delay by the subcontractors resulted in the fact that the feeder 2 was finally installed only in February 2016 on the 6 e-gates existing on arrival and then on the 9 e-gates at departure put into service on 17 March 2016. It can be thought that it was worked in a less secure way than with the manual method. That is not the case. In fact, during a manual check, the border controller passed and still passes EU citizens' documents (identity cards or passports) very sporadically in BNG. It was when the controller thought there were good reasons. The same principle was applied in the implementation of e-gates. If the supervisor "border" controller felt that a passenger should be checked in BNG, he would direct him through the airlock to manual control. During the transition period to Feeder 2, the same possibility and level of control were applicable for EU citizens crossing the border with the identity card. With Feeder 2, the two kinds of documents are fully checked (BNG, authenticity and biometric data) and the supervising controller retains the possibility, if he considers that a passenger should be subject to further control, of returning him to manual control. So we keep both systems. The feeder 2 now makes control over the whole but a guard supervises and, even if it passes the e-gate, it can still be removed and controlled manually. As regards human resources, following the events of March 2016, it has been planned to allocate to all LPA (aircraft police) 200 aspirants inspectors who, after negotiations with the trade unions, will be dispatched between the various units. These negotiations began on Tuesday, April 19, 2016. It goes without saying that some of the NPOs planned for Zaventem will be transferred to border control after completing the required training. These 200 detectives are not all for Zaventem. Part of them is planned for Charleroi. The exact number is not yet defined but it would be about 30 or 35 inspectors for Charleroi and the rest for Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u4	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u5	Mr President, Minister, this question is also addressed to Mr Reynders. According to some European sources, the European Commission could approve, in the coming days, the extension of exceptional measures allowing Member States to re-establish internal border controls within the Schengen area. For example, in Denmark border controls could last two years. Minister, what do you think about this extension of internal border controls in the Schengen area? What criteria does the European Commission use to validate the extension of these measures? Under such conditions, is the spirit of Schengen not being undermined? The European Commission has recently indicated that the situation in the Schengen area should return to normal before the end of the year. Do you think this time frame is reasonable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these internal border controls are being extended in line with the Schengen Borders Code. In November of last year, a Schengen assessment was organised in Greece, which revealed serious shortcomings in the monitoring of maritime borders, which are likely to endanger the functioning of the whole Schengen area. Following this finding, Greece had to draw up an action plan to remedy the shortcomings found. At the beginning of this month, on the basis of the Greek report, the European Commission decided that the situation was not yet under control. A kind of emergency mechanism is incorporated into the Schengen Borders Code in order to enable the Commission to make a proposal, if necessary, so that Member States can re-establish controls at internal borders as a last resort. Such controls may be introduced for a maximum period of six months, which may be extended three times. On 4 May the Commission tabled a proposal to this effect on the table. This proposal was adopted by the Council on 12 May 2016. Countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Norway, as well as Germany and Austria, have already introduced temporary internal border controls in October to stem the flow of refugees from Greece. In order to do so, these countries have relied on articles of the Schengen Borders Code which allow for temporary checks at internal borders in the event of a serious threat to public order or national security. The total period of this type of control can never last more than eight months. Therefore, some countries could not extend this measure later than mid-May. However, since the Council decision of 12 May, these countries will be able to renew their controls. In the meantime, Germany and Austria have officially announced their decision to use this option for a period of six months. It is true that the Commission recently proposed a road map, Back to Schengen, to achieve a normalisation of the situation by the end of the year. In my view, this is a reasonable time frame, provided, of course, that the situation at the external borders in southern Europe can be managed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u7	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the railway police are currently composed of 591 people, 558 of whom are police officers and 33 members of civilian staff. If I may believe the media, Brussels and Wallonia are well-off in the area of railway police. They would have an average occupancy of 108 and 102 % respectively of the proposed framework. In Flanders, however, things would be much worse. Antwerp and the province of West Flanders score only 77 and 88 %. Leuven would dangle at the bottom by 57 %, being 15.5 equivalent agents on the foreseen 27. There was a lot of discussion about this in the city council of Leuven. A fellow party member of yours denounced the fact that the number of criminal offences in the vicinity of the station had increased enormously. The mayor bounced the ball back and said that it was indeed a priority for the city, but that this was mainly due to the shortage of railway police. It is certainly a fact that the number of infringements in and around the Leuven station has increased by 46% over the last five years. According to the mayor of Leuven, therefore, the main cause is the understaffing of the railway police. The fact that several accesses to the Leuven station were closed for weeks after the attacks of 22 March was also, in his view, primarily a result of the shortage of capacity in the railway police. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you give an overview of the current occupation of the railway police per province and in the main stations per province? Are there any major stations next to Leuven with an important understaffing? If so, which one? What measures have you taken to eliminate understaffing or to achieve a fair redistribution of the railway police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u9	Mrs. Pas, you will be served at your beck and call. This is a document which contains all the tables, or else I will have to read out a lot of figures which reflect the situation of the occupation of the railway police on 1 May, rather recently. You will find in these tables the different entities of the railway police and see in which station they are located, how many are planned under the optimization table and how many are effectively allocated. You can see the numbers. I am referring to those members who effectively have their permanent place of employment or who are distributed there because there is understaffing and there are staff from elsewhere to there. Those are the two added together. The tables do not take into account, inter alia, absences for a minimum period of one month, long-term illness, career break, suspensions. If we look at the region, we must not forget that there is a strong underemployment in Flanders, especially when we see that there is an overcrowding in other entities. The SPC Antwerp, followed by Limburg, West Flanders, Leuven and other Flemish regions, must work with a certain underemployment. You will assume from me that it is difficult for me to sustain this and that we are therefore taking action. A number of measures have already been taken. First of all, the current theoretical establishment plan of the Flemish-Brabant railway police provides for the capacity to provide the entire province of Flemish-Brabant. In consultation with the partners concerned, the Flemish Brabant police area is currently responsible for the definition of the arrondissement of Leuven and Brussels, still for Halle-Vilvoorde. We have provided a theoretical capacity in Leuven for the whole of Flemish Brabant, but for organisational reasons, the section Halle-Vilvoorde, which is geographically close to the Zuidstation, remains in Brussels. In that sense, the theoretical figure with which it is compared is not entirely correct. From the moment the establishment plan of Flemish Brabant will be complete, it is foreseen to extend the competence to the full definition of Flemish Brabant. So we will not transfer staff from Brussels to Flemish Brabant, but first bring the staff in Leuven to the level required for Flemish Brabant and then we will extend the competence. Following the second measure, in the framework of the optimisation of the federal police at the end of 2015, there were 13 inspectors in excess according to the new establishment plan of the Brussels Railway Police. At the same time there were 22 free places in the provincial services, also according to the new establishment plan. During the first phase of the placement of this optimization, a number of places were offered to staff members of the SPC Brussels to be relocated to a provincially concentrated service. What did this result in? For the 6 open places in Antwerp there are 2 candidates, for the 6 in Flemish-Brabant 2 candidates, for the 3 in Limburg 4 candidates....................................................................................................................................................................................... In some places there were more candidates than in others. Wherever possible, all movements were also carried out. In order to further reduce the current under-employment, mobility will open up places, depending on the available budgets and priorities. The budgets have been made available and through Mobility we will fill those places further. However, the offer is always bound. It is possible to open up places, but candidates must also apply. So the good news is that the vacancies are open and we are trying to fill them out. If you can motivate people to run, you should certainly not feel inhibited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. Although the mayor of Leuven, as usual, oversaw the under-employment rate compared to the figures you give, it is not 15.5 agents out of 27, but 20 agents out of 27, there is indeed a problem of under-staffing. The measures you are taking are certainly necessary. We are now faced with the threat of terrorism which entails additional tasks, such as increased security and control at the stations. The funds have been released, so do not hesitate to make additional advertising, so that the vacancies are filled out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u11	Mr President, Minister, on 4 May I read a press release by your party colleague, Flemish representative and state senator Karl Vanlouwe, stating that four out of ten Brussels police officers are not bilingual. I read in that press release that he got those numbers from you. I didn't find his question and your answer right away. I interviewed you on this matter last year and asked you in writing for these figures. I repeated that written question again in February because I had not yet received an answer, and wonderfully I received an answer to my written question after I had submitted this interpretation. I am sure you will remember that I have already touched you on this on a number of occasions. This is a file close to my heart. The problems are also very old. The problem dates back to 1998 with police reform. A whole transitional period was agreed at that time. It's been over since 2006, so it's been over ten years. At the time, the new regulations were successfully challenged by both your party and mine at the Constitutional Court. We have a right on our side. It is a fact that this language law is fully applicable to everyone recruited in the Brussels police zones. They must be able to submit a certificate from Selor on the knowledge of the second language. I can fully agree with Mr Vanlouwe when he calls in that press release for language legislation to be respected in the capital. He also stated that it was incomprehensible that the illegal situation of monolingualism remained with Brussels agents and deteriorated in certain police areas. I am surprised that the figures are even worse than those of previous years. When I interviewed you about this last year, you said that you would consult with the competent authorities to see how the nod could be made so that we could come to an acceptable situation again. A working party would even have been set up at that time, but if I look at the new figures, I have to say that this nod did not happen. Mr Vanlouwe proposes some measures which I asked you to take here a year ago. Firstly, the Brussels local authorities are only allowed to recruit agents with a bilingual attestation. Secondly, there must be sufficient control over recruitment, by re-presenting it to the vice-governor, who used to be able to control, but not anymore. Thirdly, the Brussels Government must destroy illegal appointments from now on. Tell your colleague I have three good news. First of all, you are of course very well placed to follow up on his sighs. Secondly, language legislation in Brussels can be regulated by a simple majority. So you don't even have to look in this government for a two-thirds majority to get that done. Thirdly, we are talking about existing legislation which must be enforced. It cannot therefore be covered by the Community's standstill. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, I had already asked this question before I myself had received the answer to the question in which parliamentary question I could find the figures you gave to Mr Vanlouwe. Secondly, what measures will you take as a competent minister in this matter? Thirdly, will you take an initiative to ensure that the Brussels local authorities only hire agents with a bilingual certificate? Are you taking an initiative to bring the recruitment of police officers in the Brussels police zones back under the control of the Vice-Governor, as was the case in the past? Do you take the initiative, for example by bringing the matter into the Conciliation Committee or by calling for a conflict of interest against the non-destruction of illegal appointments, to call the Brussels Government into order, so that illegal appointments are effectively destroyed? Moreover, according to the case law of the Council of State, it is mandatory to do so. Are you taking a legislative initiative to refine this so that here again the rule of law rather than lawlessness? My penultimate question: what did the work in the working group that you referred to in your reply last year? What appointments were made there? Why has this not produced any results in practice in the figures? Finally, what happens next? What timing can we expect to get things in order anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u12	Mrs Pas, as regards your first question, the answer to question QPV 380 of May last year was delivered to the services of the Chamber on 27 April last. That's very rich late. Let me explain to you why. We have had to request this information from the Brussels police zones. That took a while. In fact, in one of the zones, it took a long time. We have compared the data with the figures we obtained from the social secretariat of the integrated police. That turned out to be very different, so it took time to get the figures more or less correct, hence it took a long time. Meanwhile, your new question has arrived for the 2015 figures. Since we now have a good methodology, thanks to the answers to the first question, it is now also being discussed with the social secretariat of the integrated police. We will provide you with the data as soon as possible. As far as your other questions are concerned, you are of course right in your analysis that there is a distorted situation in the Brussels police zones. However, it cannot be corrected in just one year. Let there be no doubt that every law must be complied with, including language legislation, but the former legislators have failed to impose many sanctions in language legislation. We all know that. The best way to achieve the objective in this area is to continue and intensify efforts to promote bilingualism. I do not know whether ill-thought-out action by the supervisory authorities is the right way to do this. Imagine, for example, that we would destroy a number of appointments in Brussels and introduce the most stringent supervision. Then I'm in conflict with security. This is a trade-off which, as a Flemish nationalist, is not easy to make. It's a trade-off, though. I find it difficult to say that there are too few people on the ground in Brussels because a large number do not have a bilingual certificate. I am therefore asking for some understanding of that situation. It is important to intensify and encourage bilingualism. There are also premiums for this. We must weigh the security situation against your absolutely justified question of bilingualism. There can be no doubt about that. The situation is very specific at this time of terrorist threat. We are trying to find the right balance. The last thing I want is for security to be compromised. This does not mean that the efforts for bilingualism should not be stepped up. I want to commit myself to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u13	Of course, Minister, I fully understand the security situation. If that means that we need monolingual agents in certain security services, I fully understand that. But that doesn't mean they have to stay monolingual. You are right to say that there are no sanctions in language legislation. You could include them perfectly and even oblige the agents to take language courses. In this respect, I certainly support you by tabling a motion of recommendation. I hope you will find plenty of inspiration in that. A number of measures fall within your competence to enforce language legislation. A situation that has been uneven for years cannot be corrected to a year. But if there is no more drastic action, I fear that it will not happen at all and that the figures will again go in the wrong direction in the years to come. Mr President, I would like to announce a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u14	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, - having regard to Articles 21, 35, 1 and 69 of the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters (SWT), - whereas the policemen of the six police areas of Brussels-Capital should in principle be bilingual; - whereas the transitional period introduced to allow monolingual agents transferred from other corps to the six Brussels police zones to obtain evidence of bilingualism expired on 1 April 2006, - having regard to the decision of the Council of Ministers to extend this transitional period by one year and nine months; - having regard to the judgment of the Court of Justice in Case 146/2007 of 28 November 2007 of the Constitutional Court, which annulled that decision; - whereas from 14 January 2008 Article 35, § 1, SWT shall apply in full and only bilingual police officers may be recruited in the Brussels police zones; - whereas the SWT is a law of public order; - whereas according to a press release by Flemish People's Representative and State Senator Vanlouwe (N-VA), only six out of ten police officers in the six Brussels police zones are bilingual; - whereas, according to the same source, the number of bilingual policemen in the six Brussels police zones is decreasing rather than increasing; - having regard to the demands made by Mr Vanlouwe in relation to this disorder; - whereas this situation jeopardises the proper functioning of the police forces in the Brussels-Capital Region, asks the Minister - ensure that policemen are no longer employed in the six Brussels police zones which have not demonstrated their knowledge of the second language in advance by obtaining a certificate from Selor; - take measures to ensure that the recruitment files of Brussels police officers are re-routed by the Brussels police zones to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital so that they can verify their compliance with the language law in administrative matters and, if necessary, suspend them; - to call the Brussels Government to order and to order unlawful appointments of police officers in the Brussels police zones following the absence of a certificate of knowledge of the second language." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to Articles 21, 35, § 1 and 69 of the Coordinated Acts of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters (LCEL); Whereas the police officers of the six Brussels-Capital police zones must in principle be bilingual; - Whereas the transitional period introduced to allow unilingual officers transferred from other police forces to the six Brussels police areas to obtain the required proof of bilingualism ended on 1 April 2006; - having regard to the decision of the Council of Ministers to extend this transitional period by one year and nine months; - having regard to Constitutional Court decision No 146/2007 of 28 November 2007 annulling that decision; - Whereas, since 14 January 2008, Article 35(1) of the LCEL applies fully and Brussels police zones can no longer recruit only bilingual police officers; - Whereas LCELs are laws of public policy; - Considering that, according to a press release by the Flemish deputy Vanlouwe (N-VA), who is also a senator of the federated entities, only six out of ten police officers on duty in the six Brussels police areas are bilingual; - whereas according to the same source, the number of bilingual police officers on duty in the six Brussels police areas is decreasing rather than increasing; - considering the demands made by Mr Vanlouwe concerning this intolerable situation; - Whereas this situation threatens the proper functioning of the police in the Brussels-Capital Region, ask the Minister, - to ensure that in the six police areas of Brussels-Capital, police officers who have not previously proved their knowledge of the other language by obtaining a Selor language certificate are no longer recruited; - to take measures to ensure that cases of recruitment of Brussels police officers by Brussels police areas are again transmitted to the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital so that he can verify their compliance with the law on the use of languages in administrative matters and, if necessary, suspend recruitment decisions; - to call the Brussels government to order and order it to cancel the appointments of police officers in the Brussels police areas tainted by illegality because of the absence of a certificate of knowledge of the second language." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Interpellation No. 149 of Mr Dallemagne will take place later. Mr de Lamotte has been called away to another committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 11487 will be tabled or, if necessary, postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u15	Minister, on January 20, you presented us with your plan for policing tasks. In particular, the plan provides for the creation of a new directorate within the Federal Police, the Directorate of Surveillance and Protection. This new Directorate would see the transfer of the Justice Security Corps, currently within the Directorate-General for Prisons (DG EPI), to the Federal Police. In particular, he is responsible for the transfer of detainees and the supervision of courthouses. We have mentioned it several times in recent news. Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you have any details since January 20? What is the status of the working groups on this transfer? How will this transfer take place? You were talking about gradual integration from 2017. Is that correct? Is a phase planned? How many people are affected by this transfer? You were talking about 400 full-time equivalents. What are the terms of the transfer? Will a transitional status be granted? Can you confirm continued treatment? What will be the equivalence of the treatment chain of all members of the safety and protection management? What about today's premiums and their integration into basic salary? I have heard differences in this regard between the situation of prison officers and that of security personnel. Could you give me more details? Police officer status would be applied to them. But today in the justice system, these people are at level C. Do you confirm the crossing from level C to level D? What are the prospects for change within the police? Will police training be required, as is planned for the transfer of State Security Protection Assistants? This question follows on from my visit to Lantin. In front of Lantin were members of the security corps who asked me these questions. They are relatively confident in maintaining their treatment, but one realizes a dichotomy: if they become police officers, they will sometimes earn twice as much as police officers, and this will block the career development of some. They are not complaining about the prospect of earning twice as much, but this will cause problems on a daily basis. That's why I'm asking you these questions. They do not constitute a trap, but aim to obtain more clarity on something that seems coherent, such as this transfer. In practice, it must be granted to what already exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we return to the public sector, there is always a transitional period for the transition from the old to the new statute. The question you are asking, as a relay to the people on the ground, is therefore entirely justified. As far as your first question is concerned, the various strategic and technical groups are making good progress in their preparatory activities. Even yesterday, I was participating in a working group with the security corps to solve the problems. The timing of concrete achievements extends, in fact, over the years 2017 and 2018. A legal basis will have to be created, a number of royal and ministerial decrees will have to be made, and all budgetary, logistical, technical, etc. I am thinking in particular of the creation of uniforms. As far as the security corps is concerned, 400 people are actually affected by the transfer. This brings me to your specific questions about the modalities of this transfer. I will reply in part because, as far as your first question is concerned, the first of my answers is reserved for the social partners with whom negotiations are planned on the Statute. In fact, an informational meeting is being held in the Department of Justice, as I speak to you. Formal negotiations will take place in a few weeks between my department, the defence, police and mobility unions. Indeed, Defence and police personnel will be transferred to this new corps, but integration of Securail is also possible. The railway police belong to the police organization. The new Minister of Mobility is also thinking about the issue, but in my opinion it is preferable that Securail should be integrated into the police force. These negotiations are under way. That said, it goes without saying that a transitional status will be necessary and developed, including a financial safeguard, the details of which still need to be determined, in negotiations with the social partners. I assure you on this point: there will be no crossing from level C to level D, it is not on the agenda at all. I can't give you any more details right now. Together with my colleagues in the departments concerned, we have determined a methodology for communicating to the various unions and I will stick to it. As soon as the decisions are made and communicated to the unions, I will inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u17	What is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u18	I want to close all the status issues before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers, although I understand that they are incomplete at this stage. I am not going to say on the one hand that this government is not doing social consultation and on the other hand that you are not answering my questions because you want to give the first chance to this union negotiation. The implementation of this new structure will have to be delicate because there should not be two types of police officers; this would be harmful and would create unnecessary tensions. I'll come back to you when you've agreed with the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u20	Mr President, Minister, perhaps you will also reply that this is ongoing and that you have a number of union negotiations... On 3 March, the Chamber adopted the draft law on various internal provisions in the area of integrated police. The Act of 21 April 2016 provides for the transfer of State Security Protection Assistants to the Federal Police in the future Directorate of Protection and Security. Two weeks ago, officers involved in this transfer reported loss of benefits and concerns about fewer hours of training, particularly at the shooting exercise level. The State Security replied in a communiqué setting out the modalities of the transfer and the elements of compensation. Minister, during the discussions in the Committee on the Interior, you spoke of an entry into force on 1 April 2016. You indicated that the enforcement order was ready and submitted to the Council of State. The Prime Minister, in a letter addressed to the Sûreté de l'Etat, speaks today of an effective transfer on 1 June. Do you confirm that? When will the enforcement order be published? Why this extra time? Can you quantify the decrease in training hours? How many hours of shooting training will be scheduled? How can we compensate for the reduction in training in terms of the quality of training? Can you remind us of the terms of the transfer, both in terms of loss of benefits and compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I confirm that the date for the transfer of the State Security Protection Assistants to the Federal Police is currently 1 June 2016, next week. This transfer was originally due to take place on 1 April 2016 but it turned out that the law of 21 April 2016 containing various domestic provisions on integrated police, in which the principle of this transfer was enshrined, was passed in parliament on 3 March. The draft Royal Decree on the transfer of State Security Protection Assistants to the Federal Police pursuant to the Decree was approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 March. It was necessary to await the adoption of this legal provision and the deliberation of the Council of Ministers in order to be able to submit this draft royal decree to the legislative section of the Council of State, which has 30 days to deliver its opinion. Given these elements, it was not possible to maintain this initial date of 1 April. This draft royal decree will soon be published in the Belgian Moniteur as soon as it has been signed by the Minister of Justice and sanctioned by the King. It's a matter of days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u22	I assume because the transfer takes place on June 1, 2016. It'll be before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u23	Yeah, that's normal. Every day counts 24 hours and in one day you can do a lot of things. Second, police status provides for minimum annual training based on Ministerial Circular GPI 48 of five sessions (four training sessions and one evaluation session). The recommended duration of a session is four hours and one hour for evaluation. For example, a minimum of 16 hours of training and one hour of assessment should be required. The Directorate of Protection also provides for additional fire training for the P90 machine gun at a rate of twice two sessions of at least two hours per year, giving a total of at least twenty-one hours per year against a minimum of six hours of mandatory fire per year to the State Security. This is therefore a rather impressive increase in training hours. On the other hand, the "protection of persons" training is the subject of an accreditation file which requires one day of retraining per year, including training in shooting booths and self-defence. In addition to the trainings provided for in the Ministerial Circular GPI 48 within the Etterbeek complex – which will be the future place of work of the protection assistants – three stands are made available to staff members. They can practice there in the presence of an instructor during regular stand-by and training days. These shooting booths are accessible at least twice a week, while the one they had in their capacity as State Security Protection Assistants was reserved for them only for three half days a month. The Directorate of Protection comprises twenty-eight self-defence monitors and thirty-eight shooting monitors. Their number is far higher than that of the State Security Service. According to the information provided to me, therefore, there is no question of weakening their training – on the contrary. State Security Protection Assistants are transferred to a special category of personnel within the Federal Police, with their rank maintained. They are subject to police status, with the exception of the rules on mobility and reintegration. In this context, they receive, among other things, free medical care as well as certain allowances and allowances: Brussels-Capital Region allowance, proximity allowance, bilingualism bonus, uniform allowance, etc. They retain the salary scales and the baraemic career, including seniority, from which they enjoyed the State Security. Where appropriate, they shall continue to be entitled to a supplementary activity granted by the State Security. They also have the opportunity to apply for recruitment in the course of a State Security Inspector without having to meet the requirements of a diploma normally required for that function. It is planned to provide them with 40-hour integration training to explain the organization and operation of the integrated police force. They also have the possibility, without having to pass the selection test, to take basic training from the basic framework (twelve months, with certain exemptions, and six months of probationary training) or accelerated training from the basic framework (six months, with certain exemptions, and six months of probationary training) in order to become a police inspector. They are integrated into the police organization and have the opportunity, by taking courses, to see their careers evolve within the police. During this training, they receive back-up pay. They will also receive a transfer premium equivalent to 18 months of the amount of compensation they received from the State Security. Because they have this difficulty, a bonus is given to them. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the transfer will be carried out under balanced or even advantageous conditions for the protection assistants. The unions have given their consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u24	Minister, I thank you for these very clear and rather reassuring answers, particularly on training hours, which do indeed seem to be more important in the new structure. As I understand it, they can benefit both from a certain advantage in continuing their careers at the State Security, but also at the level of the integrated police, since they can, of course, through training during which they will retain the safeguard allowance, as you call it, apply for various functions, including that of inspector. There's something I don't understand. They're integrated as agents. That means they can't be armed. But they do shooting training. You remember the question, which I will perhaps rest with you very soon. You said that your will – and it was also our will – is for the agents to be armed in an equivalent manner, or taking into account terrorism in particular. At present, however, police officers are not equipped with firearms. Here, a major training course is planned for the handling of firearms. What about that level? I apologize for asking a supplementary question, but I think it's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u25	This is a temporary exception because our goal is to arm the police officers. We are also working on an amendment of the law to that effect. As far as the Directorate of Protection is concerned, they are also agents. And it is necessary for these agents to be armed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u26	So as soon as they get there, they'll be armed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u28	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for agreeing to complete his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u29	Minister, the policy of exceptional transport has recently been regionalised with the sixth reform of the state. However, until the Regions take measures in this area, the legislation in force continues to apply, in particular with regard to accompanying exceptional transport. Access to the accompanying profession is still governed by the law regulating private and special security of 10 April 1990, also known as the "Tobback Law", and its implementing orders. The Inland FPS also issues approvals in this regard. In a report of 1 August 2015 of the Internal SPF, entitled "The Act of 10 April 1990 regulating private and private security. An evaluation", the administration indicates the number of checks carried out by the Inland FPS inspection service in connection with the accompanying of exceptional transport. According to the report, there was only one check in 2014, none in 2013, 3 in 2012 and 2 in 2011. In other areas of guarding, controls often exceed 100. Mr Minister, why does the Inland FPS virtually no longer control the area of accompaniment to exceptional transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u30	The figures to which you refer come from the evaluation report on the law of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security. These figures relate only to the checks carried out by the inspectors of the Inland FPS itself. The security of exceptional transport is a typical activity, which is not controlled on the roads by the Inland FPS but by the police services. The number of checks carried out by the police services on this type of activity is not known but the number of times they have found an infringement of the regulations on this activity. I do not have the number of checks but the number of infringements committed, i.e. for 2013: 107 PV, for 2014: 24 PV, for 2015: 16 PV and for 2016, until 12 April: 12 PV. Controls are actually carried out by the police and not by the internal FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u31	Thank you for the answers. I imagine that the other sectors are controlled only by the interior and not by the police, but for this sector both have the possibility to carry out the control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u32	Minister, despite the slight decline announced in recent weeks, the number of cases handled at the Office of Foreigners remains significant. While it is necessary to identify asylum-seekers, to identify fraudsters or potential risks associated with the terrorist threat, I wonder what the extent of the means involved in this task and their impact on the normal functioning of certain police services is. Indeed, in committee, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Immigration has confirmed to one of my colleagues that a quadruple check is organised as part of the examination of the files: the photos and fingerprints of each asylum seeker are compared to the data bank of the Office of Foreigners, the Schengen Information System, via the State Security and the General National Data Bank. How are the controls organised? How many police officers or technicians are mobilized for this purpose? In relation to the maximum fingerprint control capacity, what is the share of such checks in particular? What is the cost of all these means deployed? What is the rate of evidence as a result of these controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u33	Mrs Ben Hamou, the Foreign Office is the point of processing asylum applications. On the basis of daily registrations of asylum applications, the Office of Foreigners sends the Federal Police an initial list of asylum seekers with their identity data. These data are monitored in national and international data banks. The police also receive fingerprints of asylum seekers from the Office. These identification elements are compared with those of the police AFIS database. The result of these checks is aggregated into a message sent by the federal police to SICAD from the person's primary destination centre. The local police in whose territory the centre is located are then notified and can carry out more thorough checks if necessary. The mobilized federal police force is an officer and two and a half full-time equivalents plus staff for processing and flow of information in the CADIS. A full-time equivalent is reserved for this specific fingerprint comparison function. Staff resources have been drawn from existing resources by distracting them in part from other tasks. Computer applications have been developed internally on existing hardware. The result rate varies by week. It ranges from 2 to 3% of known people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u34	Minister, thank you for these answers. I wanted to ask you this question because it is up to me from the ground that the maximum capacity for fingerprinting is 300 for the whole Kingdom. This poses problems in some files and investigations because 250 capacity is being used and police officers in the field can no longer work properly because they still have a small margin. Are you planning to expand the 300-print frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u35	Yes, this enlargement is foreseen in the interdepartmental forecasts, but it is not because of the refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u37	Minister, following Constitutional Court decision No.103/2014 of 10 July 2014, the federal government decided on pre-pension non-activity measures for certain police officers. Despite what had been announced, it was not the federal government that fully funded this measure, but also the local authorities and the Regions. Indeed, as evidenced by the draft law organizing the financing of the end-of-care measures for members of the local police voted by the majority in the Social Affairs Committee, the joint pension fund of the provincial and local governments will be used. A capped contribution. Secondly, I will refer to the Royal Decree of 22 February 2016 on the terms and conditions for granting subsidies to support the end-of-career regime for staff members of the local police operational framework for the year 2016, which therefore provides for a subsidy for police areas, also capped. The actual cost of measures decided by the federal government is unknown. In the current state, if this cost exceeds the maximum amount provided by the Royal Decree, it is the police areas that will have to pay the difference. However, we know the difficult situation in the police areas. Putting that weight on their shoulders is irresponsible. So can you confirm to me that it will be the police areas that will have to bear the difference between the actual cost and the capped amount? If so, are you going to do anything to help them? If not, who will bear this risk? More broadly, why did you come back on your promises by making local governments contribute through the joint pension fund of provincial and local governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u38	Mrs Ben Hamou, I can confirm that if a difference exists, it should a priori be supported by the police areas. However, I can already assure you that the estimated costs for 2016-17 are below the cap. Estimates of these costs have been made on the basis of working assumptions, some of which relate to the behaviour or decisions to be taken by the staff members concerned. They either opted for suitable work or for non-activity. We do not know the choice of each one in advance and we have put forward certain hypotheses. However, it is not objectively possible to accurately predict what the actual decisions will be per year and for the period concerned. Therefore, we plan to carry out several monitorings during 2016 allowing us to better identify trends and refine costs for the following years. After this exercise, of course, I will not fail to question my other colleagues in the government about the possible steps to be taken to overcome a possible shortfall in funding. What I said, I keep it, but we have to wait for reality to see how it's going. But my commitment that it would cost the local authorities nothing more, I confirm it. It is not a question of making local authorities contribute. Indeed, we have used exclusively the savings made by the integrated police to finance this end-of-care scheme. It is clear that for the federal police, it is another pension system than for the local police. It's a little more complex, but my commitment remains unchanged. I don't want to increase the cost to local areas. There is a small element of pre-financing between the moment the officer in question decides and the moment when things are settled, but ultimately, it will cost nothing, as I promised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u39	In your speech, at the very beginning, you say that it might cost local areas something, because we don't have the numbers yet. In fact, we had a debate on this subject in Social Affairs and the Minister of Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine, could not yet give us figures because for him, too, it was a forecast. We don't know who is going to use this pre-pension non-activity. He also told us that if in the end there was a difference between the capped amount and the federal envelope, that if it were to cost more, it would still be the areas that would have to pay, that he was not competent. I have already asked you several times about this in the past. You have always told me that it would be the federal government that would be responsible for funding this pre-pension non-activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u40	And I confirm it. The only thing I'm saying is, a priori, it would be supported by the zones. And then we'd do the math again. I can't give you any numbers. An appeal was filed with the Council of State, which confirmed our draft today. So it just started. We have to do the monitoring knowing how many people will use the system or not. On the basis of that, we will see. We must also see if they are people in the federal or local police. We've done calculations on the basis of assumptions. But the assumptions must be monitored in reality. We need to see if they were correct or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u41	But so you maintain that if we ever exceed the amount, it is the interior that takes responsibility and pays the difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u42	That's right. The federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u43	I'll tell you again, won't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u44	Yes, yes. I hold the floor in general. It's a big disadvantage for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u45	Mr. President, Minister, as part of the terrorist threat, last year again, police officers were regarded as targets of choice, pushing police stations to take action, particularly in relation to unarmed police officers who were confined to the interior. Today, police officers are seeking better security in their workplaces. There is a certain lack of awareness of emergency protocols in the event of a targeted attack on a headquarters or police station. More specifically, police officers - or other at-risk locations - should an attack occur, they must be able to adapt their behaviour to the situation. Is it, as in the case of a declared start of fire, to carry out an evacuation, unless it further endangers staff members? Is it advisable for police officers to move to the weapons storage facility and bring their weapons with them? Is an office containment indicated? Without mobilizing much more resources, it would seem interesting to clarify the protocol. And why not adapt the tools put in place as, as an example, a particular alarm that would trigger the said protocol? In this context, my questions are as follows. Is there a protocol contained in an official document and communicated to staff regarding the appropriate response in the event of an attack? If so, what is it? Is it possible to install an alarm separate from that of the fire alarm in order to notify staff of the launch of this protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u46	Dear colleague, in the event of a high threat, there are procedures. The threat is determined by the OCAM. The crisis centre determines the measures to be taken and implemented by the police. There's not just one alert protocol. The co-ordinating directors of boroughs are responsible in this area for the buildings of the Federal Police. As far as the local police buildings are concerned, it is the chiefs of corps who are responsible. As regards the installation of a separate alarm from the fire alarm, I confirm that this possibility exists. It should be noted that this system will require the installation of new alarm diffusers in the target infrastructure. The fire alarm diffusers do not allow to broadcast a different tone or even a predefined voice message. The services referred to are responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u47	Minister, if I understand correctly, in fact, there is no protocol at the moment. It is really the heads of bodies who finally decide, as a good father, what they do. Are you considering a protocol especially with recent events? Are you thinking about creating a protocol or something new that you would like to set up within police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u48	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u49	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to hear from you about the problem of the lack of shooting stands available to police officers. We agreed that the number of police officers was insufficient to ensure proper training. At that time, I drew your attention to the brand new shooting range at Rue Royale in Brussels, which required certain controls and modifications. In March 2015, you assured me that the necessary adaptations had been made to the bullet traps by the owner who was responsible for the delivery of the shooting stand, that the order for the armoured doors had been placed on the firm which had carried out the installation of the doors and that the last step to be taken before the opening of the shooting stand was a legal check by AIB Vinçotte on the saturation of the air in particles linked to the shooting, which was to take place, according to your information, during the week of 22 to 26 June 2015. Yet, while my information is good, today, this shooting stand has still not opened its doors, pushing the police to train in private shooting stands for a fee while an infrastructure has remained in stand-by. In addition, you also announced your goal of reaching six shooting stands available in Brussels by the end of the year. Minister, have you achieved your goal of six shooting stands available in Brussels? What exactly is the situation? Are the controls and facilities up-to-date at the shooting booth on Rue Royale? If so, when will he finally be able to open his doors? If not, what steps remain to be taken? How do you explain this deplorable delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, the controls of AIB Vinçotte have been carried out and have called for compliance of the shooting stands concerned with regard to air quality. The information you have is accurate. Four shooting stands are operational. Two shooting stands are still not back in service. The first, the RAC, the Royal Street shooting range, is now technically compliant. However, we are faced with a blockage linked to the floor covering of the shooting stand, which, according to the trade unions, poses a danger to the shooters. The flooring, however, strictly complies with the requirements of fire standards formulated by the Brussels Fire Service, which severely limits the possibilities associated with the types of floor coverings that can be installed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these requirements are included in the environmental permit and strictly condition the operation of the shooting stand. However, further research is being carried out to identify a coating that would meet the requirements of both trade union organizations and fire departments. Such research had been carried out during the course of the project but had not been able to provide a solution, hence the choice of the current flooring. Given the blockages formulated by the trade unions and the difficulty of identifying a solution that meets all these requirements, I am not yet in a position to give you an exact date to open the shooting booth. The second concerns the second shooting stand of the Geruzet in Etterbeek. The technical adaptations have been carried out by the Régie des Bâtiments and air quality measurements have demonstrated compliance. However, in the course of a real-life test, a new technical problem arose, which necessitated the necessary additional checks. You will understand that any doubt in this regard must be removed in order to guarantee the safety of the personnel involved in making use of the shooting stand before it is reopened. The latest test performed has no longer revealed any problems, but additional tests will be performed to ensure that they do. Unfortunately, I cannot yet move on to a deadline for opening. Normally, everything should be in order in the second half of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u52	Thank you, Minister. What about the objective of creating additional shooting stands? You mentioned that in an answer to a previous question last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u53	There are a total of six shooting stands in Brussels, four of which are in order and two have problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u54	The problem with the CARs is simply the flooring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u55	Yes. But it is difficult to find a soil that meets the standards, on the one hand those requested by the trade unions, and on the other, those required by the technical inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u56	But the Fire Department finally agreed to the opening of the shooting range?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u57	Yes
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u58	So everything's in line. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, the national solidarity mechanism which regulates the provision by all the police areas of the country of part of their operational capabilities for the benefit of another area facing an ad hoc administrative mission is indispensable. Police zones have a duty of mutual assistance. That said, this solidarity is only made possible if this reinforcement remains punctual and only if it does not disrupt the exercise of the other features of the police. This is a provision which must therefore take into account the respective operational availability and workloads. However, it seems that some local areas are experiencing difficulties today in assigning some of their personnel to support the federal police, such as border surveillance. For them, the situation is no longer the order of the punctual or the exceptional, but it would be, and I quote a head of the corps who expressed himself in the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws, a "consequence of drastic savings at the federal level". Mr Minister, does this reinforcement of local areas, which is now in the long term, always come within the framework of the solidarity mechanism? Or is it a structural adjustment linked to the lack of police capacity? If local areas refuse to provide their staff, as some have already indicated by mail, what solutions do you envisage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u60	Madam, I give you the letter I sent on 13 May to the mayors concerning the solidarity mechanism of the local police towards missions of a federal nature. We have explained the obligations and the legal framework. I would point out in this letter that I am aware of the workload of the police forces under MFO-1 and MFO-2. Solidarity mechanisms must be reviewed, even if capacity to date has never been fully utilized. A working group of police officers comprising representatives from each level of the police was tasked with improving and adapting the HyCap mechanisms. I realize that we need to adapt this whole system. In the face of current crises, I can only rely on existing mechanisms. Since the principle of solidarity is one of the foundations of the integrated police force, it is essential that it be respected by the police services. In addition, I asked the AIG to conduct an analysis of requests for reinforcements and responses to refusals by the police. So the AIG is going to do an investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u62	Areas are loyal and others refuse. So I asked the AIG how it is possible that some areas say they can't. They're right or they're wrong. Other areas provide support. Is there an objective situation? I can't draw any conclusions yet. It's in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u63	Have you defined a guideline for the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u64	I can't impose a deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u65	Let's look at PolBru's situation. It is a police area that has to deal with a lot of events and demonstrations in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u66	That's a really bad example, because PolBru gets a lot from HyCap.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u67	Okay, but there's a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u68	We have to make the balance. For the Brussels police areas, I want the HyCap eliminated. Obligations must be shared. Now I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u69	Missions must be provided on a daily basis. In addition, events and demonstrations must also be monitored. I'm not defending PolBru. I'm not the spokesperson. This is one example among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u70	I'll be very clear. We have four crises to deal with, all of which involve the police: the "terrorist" crisis, the refugee crisis, the crisis of the dismantling of camps and, now, the crisis in prisons. If you think we can predict management capabilities without putting pressure on these organizations, I tell you that we will never succeed. When they are resolved, we will have a huge reserve capacity. This is a very special situation. Every crisis requires a lot of police capacity. That is why we are putting pressure on the police organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u71	And also personnel. Indeed, you had reduced the number of recruits. Today, you're increasing it. I welcome this and hope that the situation will be resolved through this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u72	We said three things. First, the new organizational table had been decided by Mrs Milquet. Then I announced that we would move forward on key tasks and recruit. Finally, we increased the scale. That means I'm going to increase the number of recruitments. However, there is a need to work with some logic. Announce recruitment before discussing key tasks...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u73	The debate on key tasks is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u74	You're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u75	I say that the debate on key tasks is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u76	Political decisions are taken. We were able to estimate recruitment capacity. Now we need to recruit in order to complete the OT3. It seems to me quite consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u77	Minister, I can only rejoice that you are increasing the number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u78	At your service!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, I know that the subject is being dealt with by the Attentats Committee of Inquiry, and that it has already been the subject of a number of comments. My request is factual, if I may say so. The findings have been established; it is known that there have been serious failures on the ASTRID network on the day of the attacks. The explanations given to the committee of inquiry by the CEO of ASTRID networks revealed shortcomings in the information, but also, no doubt, deficiencies in technical capacity. Commissioner General De Bolle ordered an investigation into these deficiencies. At the same time, ASTRID, together with its users, carried out an analysis of its operation, both technically and operationally. We already have a few conclusions from the press. Minister, I would like to know what the state of this investigation ordered by the Commissioner-General is today, if you have received the conclusions. What are the lessons you can learn from this? Have you already issued concrete guidelines and recommendations for the ASTRID Board of Directors to improve the functioning of its system? Do you support a revision of the gsm transmission standards in Brussels, which seems to be a request from some operators and the ASTRID boss? In the recommendations, are user advice provided? In the meantime, since my question dates back to 25 April, I have seen that recommendations have already been made for users. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the shortcomings of the ASTRID network do not date from 22 March. This is a problem that has long existed and has been the subject of numerous interventions by many parliamentarians from all sides, and to which we return regularly. I don't know how far the thought should go. Should a specific network be set up for large-scale disasters or events of particular magnitude? This exists in some countries. It is up to you to tell us the general direction you intend to take as a result of these findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u80	Mr President, Mr Maingain, I have a fairly complete answer here, of which, if I may, I will give only a few points to the oral question. Of course, I will pass on the text to you. With regard to your question about the results of the investigation, please be aware that immediately after the attacks of 22 March, ASTRID and the ASTRID User Advisory Committee, which represents all the relief and security services, have initiated both a technical and an operational evaluation. It also identifies areas for improvement for the future. Detailed results will be reported as soon as the analysis is completed at the end of this month or at the beginning of next month. As far as the technical findings are concerned, ASTRID has not experienced a breakdown. Both radio and alerting and dispatching systems have always held up, but massive mobilization and hundreds of simultaneous communication groups have made radio communications difficult. The systems were therefore overloaded but did not fail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u81	As a result, part of the communications could not be assumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u82	That's right. Several ASTRID communication systems were very strained during the emergency. The radiocommunication network and the ASTRID network experienced unprecedented volumes of communication for several reasons. Firstly, because of the exceptional nature of the emergency situation. Subsequently, the relief and security services received requests for reinforcements from all corners of the country, which converged in Brussels. Finally, we must mention the saturation of commercial gsm networks. As such, BASE has, for example, taken the decision to increase communication opportunities by freeing itself from de-listing standards. The dispatch centre and the emergency call centres were also very busy but continued to function well. The volunteer recall alert system, Paging, was very busy but did not encounter any problems. What are the operational findings? The way radio users use the network influences the volume of capacity used, especially in crisis situations. When many people gathered on a single site use their radio, compliance with emergency communication plans can prevent network saturation. The dramatic context, with moments of stress and emotion, influenced the way the police and rescue services used their radio. Users have not always complied with the crisis communication plans programmed in each of their ASTRID radio stations (for example, more than 1,000 individual calls, full of capacity, established on the day of the attacks), which, among other things, has led to a sharp increase in the number of communication groups and has inevitably accelerated the saturation of the radio network. This human factor should be taken into account in the analyses. ASTRID systems have demonstrated in the past that they are designed to withstand communications peaks during mass events or major incidents in our country. In this regard, ongoing consultation with local authorities and relief services in the field is crucial, as is regular training and training of users on the use of radios in crisis situations. The way radio is used already has an influence on the load on the network. What are the lines of action? At its meeting on 22 April, ASTRID's Board of Directors formalized its request for an operational analysis and recommendations to the Advisory Committee. The main areas of technical improvement are as follows. Firstly, the optimization and technical renewal of all ASTRID systems, already provided for in the corporate plan approved by the Board of Directors. Then, a battery of quick wins, technical measures that can be taken in the short term. Quick wins were discussed with users, including a faster deployment of the mobile relay antenna and a more direct and clear framework managing communications with the Crisis Centre. Finally, capacity building on the relay antennas of the radio network in Brussels or in the major cities is possible by the end of 2016. For this, ASTRID needs additional frequencies. This request has not been accepted in the past. It is currently being discussed with the IBPT in particular. We now have a new argument. I therefore hope that the IBPT will be able to respond positively. As regards priority communications for the High Speed Data ASTRID service, since 2014, ASTRID has been offering emergency and security services the possibility of using all Belgian 3G and 4G commercial networks and neighbouring countries for the rapid transfer of data to tablets or computers with a single SIM card. This High Speed Data service called Blue Light Mobile is secure and reserved for emergency and security services only. It offers the realization of the mobile office concept that can collect practical information from data banks or that can send information, including videos, from the operational field. The transmission speed is that offered by this technology offered to the general public but with the increased availability of several operators. At the request of users, ASTRID is currently exploring the possibilities of developing this Blue Light Mobile service with more service guarantees but also for the addition of the voice telephony function in addition to the existing data service. As regards the revision of transmission standards, the ASTRID system uses European TETRA technology specifically designed for emergency communications in Europe, and different from that of gsm. However, ASTRID's facilities are also subject to the strict emission standards in force in our country and in particular in Brussels. In addition, a new, more binding and restrictive standard emerged at the end of January this year. It also applies to the balconies of the houses. This new provision calls into question the compliance of some existing ASTRID antennas in Brussels and, above all, undermines the possibility of strengthening the capacity and coverage of the ASTRID radio system for rescue and security services in Brussels. I think there is a need for reflection. Indeed, we have seen that BASE exceeded the standards on the day of the attacks. Perhaps we must move in this direction and go beyond standards in serious circumstances. As regards the meeting with the Secretary of State of the Brussels-Capital Region, contacts were made immediately after the attacks. Through the User Advisory Committee, ASTRID took part in these meetings with all disciplines. ASTRID has also been in direct contact with all user organisations: the Fire and Emergency Medical Aid Service (Siamu), the police areas, the Red Cross and the Civil Security and Emergency Planning Unit of the High Administrative Officer of the Brussels agglomeration. With regard to user advice, the ASTRID User Advisory Committee calls on all user organizations to work together to avoid such communication disruptions in the future. ASTRID regularly stresses the importance of respecting radio discipline and invites recommendations on its website. You will find the link to the latter in my answer. On 21 April, Civil Security published recommendations on its news site, also disseminated through its newsletter. In the coming days, the ASTRID User Advisory Committee will send a letter containing a series of recommendations to all user organisations in Belgium. The recommendations focus on four areas and will therefore be distributed throughout the network: - provide for a limited number of communication groups per province in the event of a major incident; - planning, at regular intervals, communication exercises for incidents; - use these crisis communication groups during the exercises, which will make radio users accustomed to specific groups; - avoid scanning and individual calls during incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u83	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. Of course, there will be investments to be made and to be financed. So far, much of the funding has come from users, police areas that make a significant contribution to the funding of the ASTRID network. We will also have to see what can be invested by the federal level, because I don't think all the money has to come from the users alone. We will discuss this when we have final recommendations and a better defined investment programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u84	Mr President, I would like to say how pleased I am to come and say hello to you in the Committee on the Interior!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u85	You're always welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u86	I'm glad I can come here. Minister, we know that securing our railway stations and infrastructure is an issue more than ever necessary to guarantee. The federal government has already taken several initiatives in this area. I am thinking of video protection. In addition, in recent months, both the police and our military have been working to strengthen the security of SNCB's infrastructure. In addition, the Securail services also carry out important field work in order to secure the environment of the staff, but also, of course, of the users of our infrastructures. In this regard, I have come back to the fact that some of the demands emanated from these agents, who are calling for the reinforcement of work and intervention equipment. Therefore, my questions will not surprise you. Minister, have you received a proposal from the SNCB calling for a strengthening of the armament of the Securail agents? If so, when did you receive it? What is the analysis of your services? What conclusions have been communicated to you about this proposal? Finally, what initiatives and possible legislative changes can you decide on this, in collaboration with your colleague in charge of Mobility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u87	Mr Pivin, a possible request to extend the security equipment of the Securail agents must be considered in a broader context. I did receive the request in the form of a letter from Jo Cornu, but I don't remember when. In my view, we must put this issue in a broader context. At present, we are working on the creation of a special direction within the police, to which guarding tasks will be assigned. As you know, this will be the "safeguarding and guarding" management. In addition, many police officers are currently present at stations, a fortiori at international stations. Securail personnel also patrolled there. I think it's a little too much. If everyone receives only part of the skills, we will face real fragmentation. My vision is that we must integrate all these elements. I don't see any advantage in having Securail, the police, the railway police, etc. To this end, I met with the new Minister of Mobility. At that meeting, the issue of the integration of Securail into the police was discussed. I asked my colleague to think about it so that we could then exchange our ideas. The reflection has therefore begun. Security at the stations goes further than the only position in Securail. We are looking at how to continue the work. I am convinced that we will be able to ensure better safety at stations with both human resources and technology. So, before determining whether to arm and equip Securail, without wasting time to think about it, we must first determine the best position of Securail. I must say that Mr Bellot is open to discussion, because he himself asked himself these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u88	I can hear you. As the reflection is under way, there is little useful reply to make. Especially since what we also mean about the too many speakers in some places also raises questions of responsibility and decision-making. Therefore, I am personally encouraged by your reflection on the integration of all operators; also hearing, even if you do not explicitly say so, that you are not opposed to the idea of Securail's armament, if it appears that the latter should become the priority operator. That's very good. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u89	Mr Minister, on 27 February last, considering the exceptional situation at the Franco-Belgian border near the migrant camp in Calais in France, you decided on a detachment of police personnel on the Belgian coast with a view to strengthening the controls under the so-called Medusa plan. The first figures that were provided concerning the work carried out by these police officers at the Franco-Belgian border demonstrated the need for this police reinforcement. Since then, there have been reports of very few crossing points at the French border that are actually controlled, whether by day or by night. I was also able to observe recently that a new structure of cooperation between Belgium, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom was being set up as part of a new task force in order to better combat illegal immigration routes. This is, of course, an excellent initiative. So how many police checks have been carried out since February 27th? How many migrants have been interrogated by the police at the Franco-Belgian border since that same date? How many police officers have actually been assigned to this monitoring mission? Finally, can you indicate what is currently the situation at the Franco-Belgian border in terms of the risk of migrants passing from France to Belgium - with a view to crossing to England - and how many police officers are still assigned to this monitoring mission to date? What are the tasks you plan to entrust to this new task force that would be in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u90	Mr Pivin, from 27 February to 24 April included, daily checks have been carried out. However, the total number of checks was not recorded. However, I can assure you that 1,684 illegal residents have been intercepted. The number of police officers engaged varies according to peak or risk hours after analysis of previous intercepts. In the initial phase, the 24 hours were covered with more than 200 agents per 24 hours. A member of the Foreign Office was permanently present at the RAAK Administrative Processing Centre. It is an administrative center located in Furnes, where every intercepted person was registered. After interim assessments, the occupation could be reviewed for so-called off-peak hours. This assessment is continued every week at the present time. The road still exists, but there is a sharp decline in the number of interceptions. The alleged threat of a great escape following the possible sudden and forceful evacuation of the refugee camp in northern France seems to me no longer relevant. At a meeting held in March, it was decided to draw up a holiday schedule in consultation with the operational services. On 19 April, it was decided not to hire staff at fixed checkpoints. The option has been taken for a daily patrol engagement, it is 30 FTE with RAAK, plus the police of navigation to the hotspots in matters of terrorism, transmigration and processing of these files. This week, there is still a follow-up meeting. The reduction of fixed patrols has been evaluated because the migratory flow has disappeared, but this can still come back. At the moment, I can say that the situation is under control in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u91	I thank the Minister for the clarifications. I don't have a reply to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u92	Mr President, Minister, the work done by law enforcement agencies over the past year and a half is more than worth mentioning. These people who work on the front lines in the face of unprecedented threats in our territory maintain a high level of professionalism, especially as we know that the situation requires us, as you mentioned earlier, to further strengthen our police services in the face of these challenges. The government has made unprecedented decisions to increase the level of intervention of our special units or investigative capabilities. We also know, on the basis of state of affairs, that a number of police officers are missing in the federal police units, but also in local police units, I am thinking here of the Brussels Region. There is a shortage of approximately 600 police officers in the Brussels police areas. Mr. Minister, last year you announced a recruitment of 1,400 police officers. Can you tell us what recruitment and training procedures have been initiated for these 1,400 new police officers? When will these 1,400 police officers be trained and effectively operational in the field? Can you indicate whether you are considering regulatory amendments that would, in particular, stabilize the presence of police reinforcements in areas where the deficit is most felt? I am, of course, thinking of curbing the mobility which causes units to move especially outside the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u93	Mr.President, Mr.Pivin, compared to 2015, I have increased the number of training inspectors from 800 to 1,400 in 2016. This year's planned recruitment includes 1,400 police officers, plus an additional 200 police officers, to enhance airport security. So, 1,600 for this year and 1,400 for the following years. On the basis of the data collected according to the needs and schedules of the schools and also on the basis of the analysis of the available costs and budgets and the positive opinions to be obtained from the Finance Inspectorate, every effort will be made to try to allocate the winners of the selection tests to the police schools. In April-May, for example, 400 new police officers began training in the police schools in Brussels, Jurbise, Liège, Namur, Antwerp, Asse, Bruges, Genk and Ghent. A second training session will begin in September-October and a third in December. We want to reach 1,600 this year: 400 in May and a start of training in September and December. As long as training capacity is available in police schools, recruitment, selection and training will take place in accordance with existing rules and principles of the legal position of police personnel. In response to your second question regarding the 2016 decisions (1,400 + 200), in the course of 2017, the first inspectors will be in office. Since the duration of the basic training for inspectors is still limited to one year, it is provisionally supplemented by a probationary course of six months to supervise the aspirant inspector and to strengthen and develop his skills acquired according to the particular characteristics of his future workplace. As far as your third question is concerned, mandatory attendance times are already provided for in IPM 73. Flexibility is provided. Derogations are possible with the agreement of the chiefs for the local police and the CG/IMD for the federal police. Aspirants who have obtained employment as a result of mobility or immediate recruitment are in principle bound by a five-year attendance period. With the agreement of the Chief of Staff for the local police or the Commissioner General or the Director General concerned for the federal police, this period of presence may be limited to three years. Aspirants who have obtained employment as a result of additional recruitment shall be held at a time specified by the police service concerned of six, seven or eight years. Aspirants who are appointed ex officio inspectors shall be required to be present for a period of two years. With the agreement of the Chief of Corps for the local police and the Commissioner General for the Federal Police, this time of presence may be limited to one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u94	Thank you for this very comprehensive answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u95	Question No 11627 by Mr Hedebouw is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u96	Deputy Prime Minister, the majority of the interventions of the local police concern conflicts within households. According to the director of the Namur Police Academy, it would even be an intervention out of two of the local police that will touch the family unit. Confrontations, fights, yelling that sometimes get angry with alcohol, police officers must intervene in contexts that are similar but are always different, with rigour, firmness, while using tact and psychology. These are indeed the major difficulties of interventions for domestic violence. Recently, we had the pleasure of learning that the Namur Police Academy would include in its teaching a training entirely dedicated to the management of domestic violence as early as June. From a few hours' training, it is extended to three days with a representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office, a field police officer, members of judicial institutions and the voluntary sector. The ultimate goal is to provide an integrated approach to the issue for future police officers. Finally, it is also good to know that as early as September, inspectors already in office will be able to follow this course in the context of continuing training. This is excellent news, which will improve the service offered by local police. Allow me to address these few questions. Is Namur's academy the only one to deliver this kind of curriculum? What about other academies? How many police officers could take this type of training each year? If many other academies do not provide in-depth courses in this way, with an integrated vision, do you want to encourage this type of training so that, in the medium to long term, each academy can give such an approach to future police officers? Finally, what courses are provided systematically to future police officers, which improve their work in the context of domestic violence and to protect children from such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u97	Other accredited police schools also offer ongoing training on domestic violence, either in general or on more specific aspects. Since 2010, 3,481 staff have been trained, mainly in the north of the country. The Academy of Namur is however the only one so far to offer a 3 day training on the subject. Other schools prefer to offer short modules focused on specific issues. To answer your second question, it depends on the capacity of schools. Based on figures from previous years, we can estimate the number of people who can be trained at about 600 per year. For your third question, this theme is not included in the 2016-2017 federal training plan, as it was developed on the former 2012-2015 National Security Plan. This does not mean that training in this field is not encouraged. We will continue to take this into account when identifying needs. In the new project of our full security framework 2016-2019 and the National Security Plan, the theme is taken up. Under the National Security Plan, schools will adapt their training. With regard to your last question, the area of domestic violence is addressed in the basic training of police inspectors in cluster 9 on police intervention and cluster 13 on communication, where the basic and technical principles of negotiations and mediation are seen in particular from the perspective of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u98	Thank you for all that accurate information. Indeed, I can only hope that this will happen in other academies. Police officers are on the front line. They therefore have a major role. The protection of children is also important in this family aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u99	Minister, many local police areas have recently complained of a shortage of salivary tests necessary for the detection of narcotics among motorists. As the body responsible for the provision of such tests, the FPS Justice is responsible for the centralization and sorting of applications, before allocating the order according to the needs of each police area. However, the SPF would now like to be able to transfer the management of salivary tests to police authorities, including the federal police. According to the Justice FPS, officers would have a better understanding of the realities of the field, enabling them to analyse the situation in each area and to respond in an optimal manner to requests. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. Is the current shortage of salivary tests to detect narcotics among drivers affecting all local police units? Have similar precedents already occurred or is this an exceptional situation? Does your department envisage the possibility, in collaboration with the SPF Justice, of transferring to certain police authorities the management of the centralization and distribution of salivary tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u100	Ms Jadin, according to recent information, the FPS Justice currently has a sufficient stock of salivary tests to respond to the demands of the integrated police. Its budget for their purchase has been revised upwards this year. My colleague from Justice will be able to confirm that. Nevertheless, a shortage of salivary tests has already occurred in the past, mainly at the beginning of the BOB summer and winter campaigns, at the end of the year when the zones and the federal police at the same time order salivary tests. This may sometimes be due to the fact that some police areas are ordering additional tests in order to build up a sufficient stock in anticipation of a possible shortage. As far as your second question is concerned, we must distinguish here, on the one hand, the purchase and, on the other, the needs and distribution of salivary tests. With regard to procurement, it is normal for the procurement process to continue to be the responsibility of the Justice FPS. This is a means used to establish the burden of proof and is borne by the costs of justice. As regards the assessment of the need for salivary tests and their distribution, it is necessary to consider the possibility of fine-tuning the procedures. Concertation between the federal police and the local police is planned to better meet the needs of the ground without exaggerating the orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u101	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answer. I see that the arguments put forward are sufficient to respond to a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u102	As part of the organisation of the future European Football Championship, which will start on 10 June, France, the organising country, has requested police support from each country participating in the competition, in order to ensure optimal security at this event. Belgium would have responded favourably to this request and planned to send eight specialized and trained agents to the world of football, who will be responsible in particular for supervising Belgian fans at least as long as the Red Devils are in the competition. And we hope it'll be a long time. How many football officers do we currently have? Do you intend to set up an additional reserve to be sent, if necessary, as a reinforcement during the course of the competition? Can you inform me in more detail about the mandate of Belgian agents deployed in France? What will be their room for manoeuvre in the event of a necessary intervention? Will they benefit as a result from equipment and weapons capable of responding to all the risks and potential threats that unfortunately pose to such events?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u103	To answer your first question, since 2004, nearly 900 police officers have received specific training, focusing on the role of spotter in football matches. The role of the spotter is to collect all relevant information about the target groups of supporters, to transmit it quickly to the head of the order service and to ensure a visible presence on the ground so that incidents can be prevented, mitigated or stopped. The number of police officers active in this field obviously fluctuates according to assignment changes and retirements, but each local police that has to manage football matches in the main national category has a sufficient pool of spotters. I am not planning to set up a supplementary pool of spotters as part of a mission to France, but my services will analyse, if necessary, any additional requests from the French authorities in order to provide an adequate response. I come to your second question: in accordance with the terms of engagement desired by the French authorities, our police officers will provide assistance in the decision-making process to the territorially competent authorities as well as assistance in the management of the Belgian supporters present. Without coercive power, police officers will have to interact with and communicate with supporters. They will encourage the reception and assistance of the public in their national language. They will also need to be able to alert local authorities to the presence of risk supporters and be able to identify them. With no judicial prerogative, however, they will provide technical assistance to investigators in the event of the arrest of troublemakers. Their flexibility will therefore be mainly limited to communication with supporters. If another type of intervention were to be considered, these police officers would disappear for the benefit of their French colleagues. Their equipment and weapons are therefore in line with the mission to be completed. Belgian police officers will also be constantly accompanied by French police officers from the National Division for Combating Hooliganism, who will take all necessary steps to ensure their safety as part of their operational commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive information again. This is very important and it enlightens us on part of the organization of security around these events. I understand that our forces will be present in cooperation with the French forces at the same time; this obviously has its meaning; I hope it will be a good competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u105	I hope so too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 11673 was postponed. So I can ask myself a question now. I have noted that after Mrs Pas, I am the first Dutch-speaking questioner of this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u107	Minister, last week, on 18 May, the King of Jordan came to Brussels for an official visit. Very early in the morning, part of the parliament's environment was laid down, later also a number of tunnels, including the Rogier tunnel and the Kruidtuin tunnel. This created huge traffic jams, all over Brussels. Other tunnels were also shut down, I heard from the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. There was no sign anywhere so that the people who came to Brussels were not aware of the consequences of this visit. They could not therefore avoid the tunnels by using alternative routes to reach their destination. I was in traffic very early myself, already before 9.15 in the morning. Strangely enough, when I got between Koekelberg and Parliament after a little over an hour and a quarter of an hour, I was stopped, less than 300 metres from Parliament. I was denied access by police officers because of my moving by car. Not just me, by the way. Also to a number of others. Our previous group leader in the Chamber was in favour of the same thing. Our group leader in the Senate was in favour of the same thing. And a few other MPs. Even when they were driving a vehicle with a P-plate. Even after presenting their badge, which should guarantee a safe passage to the neutral zone. Even with the ID. Even after a lot of pressure. Even after pressing for us to be expected for meetings in Parliament. The police stated, among other things to myself, that they had been expressly forbidden from letting anyone through, even Members of Parliament. According to my information, the neutral zone has been set up to allow Parliament to carry out its task in all circumstances, not to prevent Members of Parliament from carrying out their duties. Hence my questions. Who decided that MEPs should be stopped who wanted to go to Parliament with their vehicles? Has Parliament been informed in advance? If so, by whom? When did this happen? What was the motivation? Do you think that this security measure was proportionate to the security risk they pose to Members of Parliament? What will you follow up on this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u108	Mr President, this is clearly a question pro domo and less in the general interest of our society. I put this question to the Chief of Staff of Brussels. He informed me that the traffic problems were indeed due to the King of Jordan's state visit. According to a statement, the police of the Brussels-Capital-Elsene zone did not instruct MEPs to refuse the way to Parliament. Everyone, including Members of Parliament, had permanent access to the whole sector on foot or by public transport. However, there were a few practical problems with the car. As with any state visit, the protocolary procession, consisting of the Royal Escort on horseback and vehicles, takes the entire Wetstraat from the intersection with the small ring to the intersection with the Koningstraat. It was therefore physically impossible to reach Parliament's parking entrance in the Hertogstraat by car via the intersection of Kunst-Wet. Via the Prijspersstraat it was always possible to reach this car park. The police area always disseminates the necessary information for all events where major traffic nuisances are expected. This is done by e-mailing, Twitter, publication on the website and more. If necessary, a specific e-mail will also alert the military police of the Federal Parliament. Apparently, that communication didn't go smoothly this time. The necessary arrangements were made to avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u109	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which is very strange. After all, several Members of Parliament have explicitly insisted that they should be able to move on, including via the side of the Leuvenseweg. That's where we were stopped too. It's what it was and we can't turn back the clock. A predecessor of mine in Roeselare, Mik Babylon, was a popular representative for Volksunie and had a heavier temperament. If he had stood before that, a car would probably have died. We have dealt with it a little more civilisedly and waited. However, the result was that a number of meetings started late, not only in this Parliament, but also in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u110	Minister, it is my responsibility that, in the field, the police teams that have been subjected to severe stress in recent times must be taken over, even more so, by the psychosocial prevention advisers. I had already had the opportunity to talk to you about this under the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work, which stipulates that the psychosocial burden of workers must be taken into account. To do this, prevention advisors have as their role the supervision of stress, conflict, absenteeism, communication, working climate, human relations, etc. The problem at present concerns those advisers, who are few in number, who are under the burden of work and are themselves subject to significant stress. You had answered this to one of my previous questions on the subject: "The budgetary conditions being difficult, it was decided, as with many federal police services, not to increase the size of the psychosocial prevention team of the Internal Service of Prevention and Protection at Work". However, there are echoes that I hear about burn-out, a large number of voluntary departures of counsellors or, more generally, an overload of work that does not make it possible to render the service expected in good conditions. Can you tell me what is the status of the personnel in the cells concerned? Have there been any cases of departure on long-term sick leave due to burn-out? What about the turnover rate in these functions? In order to respond to the distress of the officers in these cells, is there a specific second line supervision for the advisers themselves? To the extent that the workload is all the greater today as the entire police force is being called on with ever more urgency because of the general situation, are you considering strengthening the psychosocial prevention cells? If so, in what proportion and by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u111	Mrs Ben Hamou, the prevention advisers are part of the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work, also known as CGWB, and give advice to the authority on prevention and protection at work, on the basis of the Welfare Act 1996. These services also coordinate internally a network of trusted people of more than 100 members. As part of the optimization of the organizational table, the psychosocial prevention service has undergone significant changes and increases. Following the recent organizational framework of the Federal Police on 26 October 2015, this unit will have eight full-time staff: a Head of Service and seven counsellors specializing in psychosocial aspects of work. Therefore, a strengthening of these services has been planned. To date, the department has one head of department, one specialist prevention advisor, one prevention advisor in the course of training, one secretary and two trusted people. As far as staff are concerned, two cases of long-term illness of specialist prevention counsellors in the course of training have been recorded in recent years. With regard to the turnover rate of specialist prevention counsellors, there have been only three departures since the service was established, i.e. since 2002. As far as your second question is concerned, to date, it is always lawful for employees of this department to contact their stress team colleagues to receive psychosocial support. Stress team is an integral part of the Resource and Information Management Branch. Aware that this solution does not cover all potential needs, the Personnel Service of the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work (SIPPT) has undertaken the steps to open up to prevention advisers, psychosocial aspects, a right to external individual supervision, the same system as that in place for stress team personnel. Finally, in response to your last question, I can say that, given the recent enlargement of the organic table for this service following the recent optimisation of the federal police, no further enlargement is planned. On the other hand, vacant places are gradually opened internally and externally to fill the existing organic table. The SIPPT is one of the priority staff recruitment services. In addition, advisers were made available a few days a week to deal with this transitional period. So we are in a transitional phase. The composition of this service is 9 persons (1 Head of Service and 8 Councillors). Recruitments are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u112	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u113	Minister, since 5 January, persons suspected of wanting to incorporate terrorist groups abroad as a result of radicalisation may be subject to the removal of identity cards. There can only be a withdrawal after a reasoned opinion from the OCAM, which was itself preceded by a consultation with the public prosecutor's office. The whole must, of course, be based on well-founded evidence to suspect these individuals. My question today is rather practical. The press reports that five identity cards have been withdrawn since January and I would like to be informed about concrete procedures on the ground. So, can you tell me who is responsible for going to collect ID cards from individuals? Is that the role of the local police? Municipal authorities? How, in a practical way, is it organized? Are the individuals concerned informed in advance of this process? If so, by what means? If not, is withdrawal done by an unexpected visit to the individual? Are the agents in charge of this withdrawal operation - since I assume that this mission is not entrusted to a judicial officer - carrying a document signed by a judicial authority or accompanied by a judge? Are passports or other travel documents also withdrawn? What is the attitude taken in the case of binationals? Their possible foreign documents may not be removed from them by a Belgian authority? More broadly, since the entry into force of this law, how many times has it been used? How many documents were actually removed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u114	With regard to your first question, a royal decree of 26 December 2015 describes this procedure. In this regard, two cases need to be distinguished. In the event of a decision to withdraw the identity card, the mayor of the municipality of the principal residence of the person concerned, informed of the decision, shall request the local police service to withdraw the identity card. If the person concerned is not present at his or her home, the police officers then leave a notice of passage inviting him or her to visit the local police area for the purpose of handing over his or her identity card. When the card is withdrawn, a certificate is issued to replace it by the police. When the issuance of the identity card is refused, a certificate is issued to replace the card by the municipal administration. In both cases, it should be noted that the replacement certificate issued is identical to that issued to persons who lost or were robbed of their identity cards. The aim is not to unnecessarily stigmatise persons who are the subject of a withdrawal decision. With regard to your second question, as provided for in the Act of 10 August 2015, the ministerial decision to withdraw identity cards is officially notified by registered mail within two working days of the decision. As mentioned above, the mayor of the municipality of residence of the person concerned shall also be informed in writing as soon as possible. In this way, it will seek the services of the local police area as soon as possible so that they can effectively withdraw the identity card from the person's main residence, as permitted by the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015. With regard to your third question, as provided for in the Consular Code, the decision to withdraw an identity card automatically results in the decision to withdraw the passport. I suggest that the honourable Member contact the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the practical procedure for withdrawing or refusing to issue a passport. When the ID card is removed, the information is forwarded to the Department of Foreign Affairs responsible for passports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u115	Is that the same procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u116	Yeah, it's almost the same. For the particular case of binationals, foreign documents may be withdrawn by the Belgian authorities. Finally, with regard to your last question, since the entry into force of the law of 5 January 2016, five cards have been withdrawn, while the issuance of an identity card has been refused to one person.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u117	As far as binational documents are concerned, I have not heard you correctly. The Belgian authorities are not entitled to withdraw foreign identity cards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u118	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u119	The mayor will be responsible as he receives a notice, sends him to his police area and asks to proceed with the removal of the identity card. But if he doesn't, what happens then?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u120	The mayor has much more responsibilities that result from the obligation...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u121	In this case, the responsibility is total for the mayor!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u122	It's not total. The decision to withdraw the ID card is made by me. I then ask the mayor to ask the police zone to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u123	The person concerned receives a registered mail two days before. If he is in possession of his passport and knows that he will be removed from his identity card but that the notice of withdrawal of the passport has not yet been notified to him, can he still leave our country with his passport? The two things don't happen at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u124	The passport is the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the identity card is my responsibility. It is the OCAM that starts the process and informs the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The latter must check whether the person concerned has a passport, because everyone has an identity card but not everyone has a passport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u125	I will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs about passport procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u126	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Schepmans' 11697 was withdrawn. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Schepmans' 11698 and 11699 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u127	Minister, the Committee on Radicalisation of the Flemish Parliament found that only one third of the Flemish schools have a point of contact with the police, where they can go if they are confronted with radicalisation. Flemish Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Homans, said that she has identified the problem to you, as the Federal Minister for the Interior, and that you are working on it. In the same committee, your party also called for a stronger presence on the social media, including counter-story. That too would be addressed by the federal level, according to Minister Homans. Minister, in Flanders only one in three schools has a point of contact with the police. What figures are there for the whole country? What initiatives will you take to increase the number of contact points? What's the status of the file? What initiatives will you take to strengthen the presence on social media? What's the status of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u128	Mr Top, there was already contact with Minister Crevits' cabinet on this matter. A number of initiatives are currently being prepared to systematise and standardise contact points. The issue is the subject of the PLP 41 circular of 7 July 2006 to strengthen and/or redirect local security policy and the specific approach to youth crime, with in particular a contact point for schools. Following last year's demand from the education umbrella, at the end of November 2015, all local police areas were registered with a view to updating the contact points list. The search for a reminiscent writing of the police department chiefs ends at the end of May 2016. Finally, I would like to mention that the measures taken in implementation of the aforementioned letter are the subject of the zonal security plans. My cabinet will consider the extent to which adequate solutions have been offered in the context of the renewal of these plans as a result of the validation of these plans. This renewal is now on the agenda, because we will be proposing the national security plan in a few weeks' time and the zonal safety plans can then be put into effect. As for your third question, at federal level there is the strategic communication team, the SSCAT or Syria Strategic Communications Advisory Team at work. That team shall develop campaigns for the twelve Member States concerned and shall be at the disposal of the Communities which shall have responsibilities in this regard. The team is subsidised by the European government. That subsidy has been renewed and increased. It works together with the United Kingdom, which has a lot of experience in this area. It is now up to the Communities to work this out, but contacts have now been established. We do not want to develop a universal campaign for the whole of Europe or Belgium. We need to understand such campaigns in the widest possible sense. It's not just about posters. It is best as local as possible and should give as little as possible the impression that it is organized by the government. The offer applies to the Communities. They can work with that team.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u129	This is a confirmation of the previous result. There's a new survey going on until the end of May. When will you have the new results of that survey of our Communities? The previous survey resulted in a third. I imagine there will be another negative response in certain police areas. What initiatives can be taken to ensure minimum service provision in all police areas throughout the country in the field of radicalisation in schools? You also referred to the zonal safety plans. That might be the anchor point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u130	That's what I'm talking about. The results are coming in now. They'll have to be inside in the next week, but I don't know when I'll get the results. If I give you a date now, it's wet fingering. So I'd rather not do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u131	Mr President, Minister, during demonstrations or major events, a local area needs more people than it can deliver. To absorb this, the HyCap system exists. Also in the context of the increased threat of terrorism and the refugee problem, the government uses local police officers for support orders. There is now a system which allows the higher authorities to request a fixed percentage of local capacity free of charge. However, due to the increased number of applications, this percentage may already be exceeded halfway through this year. Each zone shall be obliged to deploy part of its operational capacity within this solidarity mechanism, with a maximum of this fixed percentage of the available effective. Annually, the performance line, or the HyCap grant, is also published annually by the zone "Police Zone" in the Belgian Official Journal in the months of April or May. On 13 May, a letter was already sent from your services to all mayors with the message that the unexpected situation causes the HyCap to be fully addressed. That is why I would have liked an answer to the following questions. First, when are the annual performance lines, or the annual HyCap support provided by the zone on an annual basis, published by the police zone in the Belgian Official Journal for 2016? Are these available now, if any? Secondly, what is going to happen once the limit of the HyCap aid to be delivered is exceeded? Thirdly, can zones refuse to send additional people under the HyCap system if the HyCap support is not yet available? What if one is above the HyCap support to be delivered? Fourthly, who will bear the cost of the bet above the HyCap support to be delivered? Finally, how will local corps be supported in their capacity problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u132	Mr Top, the 2016 performance line will be published in June in the Belgian Official Journal, but has been available and distributed within the integrated police since the beginning of this year. The police officers are therefore already aware of this. The mandatory Ministerial Directive MFO-2 on the mechanism of solidarity between police areas on reinforcements for administrative police missions, i.e. the HyCap, does not contain any provisions in this respect. However, Article 64 of the Law of 7 December 1998 provides that in the event of serious and imminent threats to public policy, the Minister of the Interior, when the resources of a police area are insufficient, may request the local police from another police area in order to maintain or restore public order. A working group with representatives of each police level has been instructed to improve and/or adapt the HyCap mechanism. The work of the working group is currently under way. This was done in response to the distress call of a number of mayors. Pursuant to Article 61 of the Integrated Police Act, the mandatory MFO-2 Directive should not jeopardise the performance of the local tasks of a police zone. In specific and very punctual circumstances, therefore, a police zone may be in an inability to contribute to the HyCap mechanism. However, it cannot be stressed enough that inter-politic solidarity is one of the foundations of the integrated police services. In application of Article 63, if the mandatory MFO-2 Directive is not complied with, the Minister for the Interior may, after consultation with the mayor or the police college concerned, order the implementation of this Directive by the local police. The case where a zone has already provided its full HyCap contribution, I have just dealt with question two. It should be stressed that the foreseen HyCap solidarity mechanism has never been fully addressed in recent years, while the police areas concerned have always received their full funding for federal missions. In the event of an overrun this year, a pragmatic solution will have to be developed in the light of the above. The Federal Police Intervention Corps was created in 2005 to increase the visible presence of the police on the ground, to contribute to the dismantling of the HyCap and to support local and federal police in achieving the priorities set out in the zonal and National Security Plan. The CIK continues to carry out this task fully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u133	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation. I should like to add that there must be interpolative solidarity among police areas to provide as many men as possible in the event of an emergency or of questions. Because of the current problem with the increased threat, local police areas face the same problems. In addition, the police zones need their men to implement the zonal security plan at local level. That was referred to in a previous question. You refer to the 1998 law and to the fact that it is possible to apply. I suppose this can only be done in very exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u134	I didn't do it in these exceptional circumstances, with four crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u135	I know, but I wanted to stress that. I would like to make one more point very clear. That was also in the letter and was the reason for my question. You replied to point 4 that the HyCap capacity has never been fully addressed in previous years. I would like to point out that one of the basic principles of a budget is the one-year principle. If we have to go back to the past and ask for additional capacity from the zones, it may well be that these zones are completely flat and security in those local areas cannot be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u136	I didn't say we were going to act retroactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u137	You suggested that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u138	That's a wrong interpretation of what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u139	Looked like it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u140	That's something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u141	Minister, on May 1st, you adopted a royal decree setting out the National Emergency Plan for the approach of terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack. In particular, the absence of such a plan was highlighted in the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the 22 March attacks. The plan provides for the coordination of the various competent services and authorities, both judicially and administratively, with an integrated and multidisciplinary involvement of the police, intelligence, relief and other services. The plan also instructs provincial governors and the senior official responsible for the Brussels-Capital agglomeration to draw up a specific contingency and response plan for the risk of hostage-taking or terrorist attacks. My questions are as follows. Can you tell us more about this plan? How does coordination between administrative and judicial authorities, relief services, and security and intelligence services take place? By what elements have you integrated the particular dimension of "terrorist attack"? Have instructions and guidelines been issued to provincial governors for the development of specific emergency and response plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u142	On 1 May last, a royal decree published in the Belgian Moniteur confirmed the fact that the federal government had just adopted a national emergency plan on the approach of terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack. In response, questions were raised in the press. Your firm has stated that this is a confidential document and the Crisis Centre has confirmed the need to provide a framework for the management of an emergency related to a terrorist act. The idea of such a plan is not new, since it dates back to 2012. It is therefore not directly related to the attacks of 22 March. Similarly, in your policy note at the end of last year, you already referred to a "special national emergency plan to deal with a terrorist attack". The note then referred to the establishment in Belgium of a single plan aimed at managing the consequences of a terrorist attack. It is also a question of taking over the various existing measures, so that the authorities can have a comprehensive, up-to-date, coordinated and comprehensive document on the subject. Government, judicial authorities, police, intelligence, relief services: all of these entities are concerned. Here are my questions. When will this new plan be finalized? When will it be operational and effective? In addition, are there any new measures or what are the main new measures in relation to what currently exists, contained in this plan and which you could already describe or present to us? On the other hand, more generally, the level of threat remains high in our country following the attacks of 22 March; you yourself have repeated it several times. We cannot therefore wait for the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which are expected to end this year in the best of cases, in order to take decisions and launch action plans. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you whether you could describe the actions and operational measures taken following the attacks of 22 March in order to respond to the high level of threat that our country is facing, whether at the level of emergency plans or at the level of protection of the main sensitive places on Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u143	Ms Matz and Mr Vanden Burre, recently, terrorist groups and their ramifications have committed serious crimes both at national and international level. The threat is now multifaceted and diffuse. Coordination of the various competent departments and authorities is of the utmost priority with a view to timely detection and neutralisation. The national contingency plan for the approach to a terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack is now set out in the Royal Decree of 1 May 2016 which entered into force on 18 May 2016. Since 2012, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Crisis Centre Directorate-General have organized several exercises to test the emergency procedures and plans of the authorities and services concerned. The purpose of these exercises was to examine, in this area, the joint implementation of judicial and administrative procedures, to analyse the interaction between the competences of each, to train the different authorities to resolve situations that might actually arise and to improve the different decision-making processes and communication processes. These exercises have highlighted the need for a response to the management of both judicial and administrative authorities, with significant integrated and multidisciplinary involvement of police and intelligence, relief and other public services. These principles have been transposed into the contingency plan by involving judicial and administrative authorities in the management of this type of crisis. In addition, lessons have been learned. They highlighted the need to work with two structures: a management cell and an operational cell. These particularities are inherent in the risk of terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attacks. This plan derogates in part from the crisis management structures provided for in the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 establishing the contingency plan for events and crisis situations requiring coordination or management at the national level and the Royal Decree of 16 February 2006 on the contingency and response plan. This plan is structured in three parts. The first part concerns the scope. The second part sets out the criteria for the activation of the federal phase, as well as the warning and warning measures. The third part deals with the organisation of cells, their composition, the division of tasks between cells, the location of these cells, the missions of each cell, the interaction between these cells and the National Security Council. The provincial governors and the authority of the Brussels agglomeration competent under article 48 of the Special Act of 12 January 1989 on Brussels institutions are responsible for drawing up a special emergency and response plan for the risks of terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attacks. Concertations are planned with them in the coming weeks in order to work with them on the implementation of this royal decree. With regard to the measures taken by the authorities since 22 March, an increase in the police and military presence, as well as other services, has been carried out throughout the country with an increased and visible presence and response mechanisms in case of incidents. These devices are oriented towards all potential targets designated by the OCAM. They are provided by the local police with the support of the Federal Police, Defence and Customs. All these arrangements are assessed on an ongoing basis at both strategic and operational levels. For obvious safety reasons, it is not possible for me to detail by target the type of measure taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u144	Minister, thank you. If I hear correctly, that is what was already being done in practice that is coordinated and confirmed in a plan. You refer to the deployment of forces, etc. This deployment was in place well before 1 May 2016. I assume that it is also a set of things that was done without real coordination that is integrated into this plan. These are not any new warning and warning devices that you are putting in place. You actually gather a little bit of the pieces of the puzzle that are scattered here and there, without it being pejorative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u145	We focus on what we learned during the various exercises in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u146	Is it not a little early to draw conclusions, since the committee of inquiry is also under way, in particular, on this aspect of things?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u147	Processes, systems and organizations can always be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u148	It's still a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u149	A royal decree can also be adapted. The commission of inquiry will work until the end of the year. It is clear that if the recommendations of this commission are to be implemented, action will be taken. In the meantime, what has been learned, both from the exercises and from the situation of March 22, 2016, can already be implemented. It seems to me that these are things I have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u150	Mr Minister, in the wake of what has just been said, we actually realize – it is not at all abnormal if necessary – that it is a centralisation, a coordination of different things that already exist but can be improved, as you have explained, on the basis of the exercises that have been done (interaction between services, etc.).). All this will be applied in a national emergency plan. To make the link with what is being said, is being done and is being audited in a committee of inquiry, we note, as you also say, that several types of improvements (coordination, communication, decision-making channels, etc.) are possible at several levels. We realize that there is room for improvement and that a national plan with regularly conducted and tested exercises is certainly necessary, especially in the light of what is being debated in the committee of inquiry. We will, of course, be attentive to this, as we have always been. I think it is very interesting that this is also done in parallel with the committee. As I said in my question, we will not wait until the end of the year to react. It is interesting to do this exercise and we will look in more detail when we can have the detailed document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u151	Mr Minister, like others, I was particularly questioned at the meeting of the Special Committee on Combating Terrorism – I am not therefore talking about the Commission of Inquiry into the Attacks – on 13 May last, which received the investigating judge Claise. He told us that no more files were entrusted to the OECDFO – and God knows if we talked about them extensively at the time of the dismantling of this cell. I quote: "It is a duck to which the wings have been cut and which will be evaluated in a year by saying that it is no longer necessary". However, on December 23, Minister Geens indicated that it had been agreed to maintain an investigative capacity in the ODCFO's ODCFO's corporate office table and that an agreement had been reached between him and yourself to retain a staff of sixteen – there are currently 36 officers. Minister, what are these people doing? Do you confirm Mr. Justice Claise's statements? What is the current workforce in OECDFO? How many cases were assigned to him in 2015 and in the first months of this year? What are the government's actual intentions with respect to OECDFO? On the other hand, I learned that no more money laundering cases were assigned to him. To which police services are they therefore assigned? We discussed the financing of terrorism with this magistrate. However, apparently, OECDFO has not been mandated to address these issues. That's why I'm asking you who's taking care of it. These are information that the judge delivered in a public committee meeting. So there's nothing secret. Furthermore, what will be the means of investigating money laundering and financing, knowing that money laundering was a substantial part of the work of OECDFO in the past? I wish I had clear answers. At the time, we had denounced the dismantling of the OECDFO and, if you confirm this information to me, in the same way, I would denounce the fact that we have an extremely specialized unit in the fight against financial and economic crime and that it is a pity to waste staff who are able to deal with extremely sharp cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u152	Mrs Matz, it is quite clear, when it comes to terrorist financing, that there is no sense in having a cell separate from the "terrorist" cell. In order to have a comprehensive and integrated view, the "terrorist" cell must deal with the financing of terrorism and not with another cell, where the situation is lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u153	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u154	DG SOC, "tro" cell. She's the sister or brother of OECDFO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u155	Isn't that DR3?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u156	No, we are talking about DG SOC in which there is OECDFO and a large "terrorist" cell. Everything concerning the financing of terrorism has been eliminated from economic and financial crime and has been moved to the "terrorist" cell. They are part of the same management and can therefore exchange skills. The Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Delinquency is part of the Serious and Organized Crime Directorate (DG SOC). DG SOC comprises 292 jobs, including 18 full-time equivalents for OECDFO, as set out in the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015 on the distribution of federal police personnel. The composition is as follows: 16 investigators (2 teams of 8) and 2 judicial coordinators (one within the support unit for combating VAT fraud and the other within the support unit for combating serious and organised social fraud). In addition to this, OECDFO can also call on 16 tax officers who are available to the federal police and who are outside the organic picture. The second question. For 2015, 35 files were opened within OECDFO. For 2016, 21 cases have already been opened. These are self-sustaining files and files in support of the integrated police. Your third question. It was agreed to maintain an investigative capacity in the OECDFO organic table. The decision to deconcentrate in part the investigative capacity is based on the following considerations. On the one hand, deconcentrate what can be and maintain at the central level what must be. On the other hand, either to simplify structures or to avoid duplication and to exclude competition between central services and deconcentrated directorates. This idea of deconcentration does not come from politics but from the police themselves. It's a demand from the locals. These considerations are part of a broader vision to strengthen the operationality of the federal police and to ensure better policing, service and support. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have thus followed the proposal made by the Federal Police Steering Committee after consultation with the College of Attorneys General. The opinions all supported the idea of deconcentration with the maintenance of a central investigative capacity with well-defined tasks. OECDFO continues to consult with its internal partners to determine the respective investigative capabilities and to define a new management of research in economic and financial matters, based on concerted commitment criteria clearly specifying the respective competencies and responsibilities of the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u157	Minister, there's still something I don't understand. You told me about the financing of terrorism. What about bleaching?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u158	I think these are the tax 16 practitioners that I mentioned. But I'm not sure. I'll give you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u159	Because it was a substantial input from their files. The numbers, you say 35 and 21. Of course, it is a question of knowing exactly what is meant by "dossier". I am told that these are tiny files that are not of the magnitude of those they were dealing with in the past and that they must "clean up" the past. Laundering records that were opened prior to the new structure must be cleared. But there are not, in particular, any new money laundering cases entrusted to OECDFO, which is naturally a bit special. You yourself say that the tax 16 people can be in support of everyone. They're at the federal police. They come in support of OECDFO, but they can also be in support of another service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u160	I hope that the different services work together and help other services if they have specific skills. I hope so. We must abandon this old vision of the organization where we have different pillars that do not speak with each other. For this reason, we bring together much larger organizations to tackle a phenomenon, not small ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u161	These are not small issues that OECDFO has dealt with in the past. Of course, people need to talk to each other. This is obvious, but there are also specializations in tasks that make that at some point Paul cannot handle the same task as James. They do not all have the same degree of competence. When a relatively well-informed investigating judge makes this kind of statement before a parliamentary committee in open session, a series of questions can be asked. I know that the proposal came from the federal police on "deconcentration" at the service level. I simply refer you to your first general policy note. However, I think you are concerned about the commitments you are making, unless we are told that the general policy notes are written on a corner table and that the next day we forget the content. In your first policy note, it was still a clear commitment that you made, in particular, to the investigative capacity of OECDFO, saying that you do not intend to change it. You'll tell me there's only fools who don't change their minds. Probably, but, on the other hand, it's important... I'm very surprised you didn't "save" me exactly where the money laundering files are going. They are still files, as you know, which bring a lot of money to the state and which are not anodized. As far as this specialized unit is concerned, "specialised" does not mean that it does not coordinate with others, it means that there are people who are able to handle such cases. I wish you could perhaps in writing tell me where the money laundering cases are going in a certain way. In any case, they no longer go to OECDFO. This was the bulk of his work. So for the files you're talking about, we don't have to lift the secret of the investigation, but I would still be curious to know what it is. As far as I know, these are minimal files that are objectively not up to the competence of the officers of the OECDFO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u162	Mr President, Minister, the threats we face with regard to terrorism require greater vigilance with regard to the trafficking of false identity documents and, more specifically, with regard to what is curiously referred to as "false true" identity documents. These are documents issued as a result of a false declaration of loss of identity card, for example, by producing the photograph of a third party and not the photograph of the applicant. Your services recalled the instructions for electronic identity cards, including an update dated March 1st. More broadly, on 30 June 2015, a reminder of the guidelines of the circular of 26 March 2014 was also made. This recall provided for a number of initiatives for administrations such as training, helpdesk or a manual. This is a rather crucial issue since it directly targets our National Register. Minister, has the circular dated March 26, 2014 been assessed following the June 30, 2015 reminder? Has specific training been provided? If so, with which municipal officials, with whom? Was the manual also analyzed? Has the proposed helpdesk been solicited? Has BELPIC been recently evaluated with federal departments and local officials? How much data is currently available in the electronic identity card checkdoc? Is it possible to know the number of searches carried out in this system since January 1, 2015? How many requests for documents based on false information were registered in 2015-2016? What is the number of files forwarded to the Federal Police RFMO-D? Finally, is an attempt to obtain forged identity documents currently punishable? If so, have such acts already been punished since January 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u163	Mr Pivin, I would like to inform you that a ministerial circular on a coordinated approach to preventing and combating identity fraud at the federal and local level will be sent to the municipalities by the end of the month. It is the result of a collaboration between the services of the Internal FPS and the Foreign Affairs FPS. This circular will serve as a guide for the municipal SPOC designated in each municipality, in the event that it suspects fraud involving a Belgian electronic identity card, a kid-ID, a Belgian residence permit for a foreigner, a passport, a travel document or a civil status document. It is divided into four main points: the structures put in place to prevent and combat identity fraud; identity fraud techniques and basic checks; the procedure to be followed by the Municipal Consular SPOC in the face of an identity fraud index; and the support and accompaniment of municipalities and consular posts. Following the circulation of this circular, the municipal SPOCs will be invited to a general information session on the fight against identity fraud, to be held next September. This session, coordinated by the Federal Task Force "Prevention and Combating Identity Fraud", will be the starting point for training courses which will be developed in the provinces by small groups of municipalities by the end of September. Practical arrangements for this general information session and training to share knowledge and strengthen expertise in the fight against identity fraud will be provided in due course. The Task Force will also hold a further consultation meeting with the Unions of Kingdom Cities and Communes and some municipalities, as it did last December, to take into account their comments and expectations in this area, following the circulation of the circular, and in view of the formations that will take place in the province. The procedure to be followed by a municipality when one of its officials suspects identity fraud is described precisely in the circular. At the federal level, it should be noted that a single front-line contact point – the national SPOC – for municipal officials has been created. It will serve as an information channel for the various services involved in the fight against identity fraud and will also be a strategic instrument through which the Federal Task Force can form an idea of the cases of identity fraud found in the municipalities. As for the BELPIC system, it is developing in regular consultation with the municipalities and also, in the context of preventing and combating identity fraud, with the Federal Task Force. Recently, a new version of BELPIC has been made operational in the municipalities, in particular to combat possible fraud and to protect the identity of citizens. The photo of the last activated citizen card is now automatically displayed on the screen when requesting: activation, cancellation and reporting of loss, theft or destruction of a card. This allows the municipal official to better control the identity of the citizen, for example in the case of the production of the photograph of a third party and not that of the person holding the document. In Belgium, there is no commonly accepted definition of identity fraud. It is multifaceted and can be linked to various criminal phenomena such as illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, terrorism, economic and financial crime. The punishment of identity fraud is mainly based on the articles of the Criminal Code punishing forgery or falsification of identity documents and the wearing of false names. These are articles 198, 199, 199 bis, 202, 231 and 496 of the Criminal Code. As far as convictions of such acts are concerned, this falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister of Justice, to whom I refer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u164	Minister, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u165	Minister, it appears that acts of identity card theft in municipal governments and federal government buildings have increased considerably in recent years between 2013 and 2015. We should not recall the particular attention we need to pay to the crimes committed as a result of these thefts and especially in the area of terrorism, as we saw during the dismantling of the Verviers cell. Can you tell us if there were 44 cases of identity card theft in 2013, 69 in 2014 and 91 in 2015? Is a specific federal police service dedicated to this issue and is it directly linked to the local police services? What procedure is in place in this context between local and federal police? How many flights have been elucidated? Has there been a significant number of cases involving internal complicity in the administration to commit these robberies and robberies? And finally, what are the elements used by the police to identify links between these thefts and terrorist networks, on the one hand, and the migrant crisis, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u166	Mr Pivin, I confirm the figures, but I want to nuance things. First, since 2006 (e-id introduction), theft of blank identity cards is no longer possible. Secondly, in the Police Data Bank (BNG), it is impossible to distinguish between the different types of flights taking place on the premises of the administrations. With regard to identity documents, the Federal Police has two central units providing the necessary support and expertise to the local police, if they so wish. The central DJSOC/theft service is organized when identity documents are stolen in an organized setting. This service is responsible for the creation of images, coordination between the various boroughs and the provision of expertise and support. In this respect, it also has an international network. Contacts between the relevant actors (parquet, judicial and federal police) are carried out through the structures provided for in confidential circular COL1/2008 on the approach of itinerant groups of authors. For example, each district judicial police service has a project manager and each police area has a point of contact. The Counterfeit Enforcement Division (DJT/OCRF), and in particular the OCRF-D Central Office, mainly active in the area of authentication of false passports, identity cards and driver's licenses from around the world. He manages the DIFF database, which provides expertise to the local and federal police for the following topics: overview of all new documents, new trends in falsification and theft, new techniques, and tricks and tricks to recognize fakes. In the event of theft, the statement must be made to the local police of the place where the theft is found; the local police will immediately report the stolen documents. In the case of organized theft of identity documents, a judicial file is opened through the Federal Judicial Police of the District. The exchange of information between local and federal police shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in accordance with MFO-3 and through channels such as the borough information hub. With regard to your questions 4 and 5, the answers to these questions fall within the competence of my colleague, Mr Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. As far as your sixth question is concerned, there is first of all the evidence from all the findings (including witness statements, traces, neighbourhood investigation, etc.).). Next comes the results of investigations, both from the investigations carried out as a result of these thefts of identity documents and from investigations conducted for terrorism (including telephony, confrontations, searches, etc.).). Please also be aware that any investigation into such flights is taken seriously. The police are fully aware of the fact that these robberies are carried out each time with a view to also permitting one or other form of organized crime. To this are added the persistent efforts to obtain the necessary information via "HumInt" (source information). Often, information also reaches us through intelligence services or from abroad. Finally, all stolen documents are subject to alerts that allow them to be intercepted in case of use (e.g. at the border crossing during a trip). The information gathered in the context of these interceptions, in turn, leads to the initiation of an investigation. Thus, the various possibilities are constantly combined. In some cases, a link can be demonstrated with terrorist records or records relating to trafficking or trafficking in human beings. In other cases, however, it turns out that there are completely different forms of crime. For this reason, identity fraud is taken up as a cross-cutting priority in the new National Security Plan (NSP).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic428x.u167	[[...]]
