ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u2	Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". According to Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which the Minister or State Secretary is elected. According to Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers, the minister or Secretary of State of the federal government who ceases to sit is replaced by the first substitute in order of the list on which the minister or Secretary of State was elected. Ms Sarah Claerhout, who served as deputy to Mr Pieter De Crem, resigned on 1 November 2016. Ms. Sarah Claerhout, who served as alternate for Mr. Pieter De Crem, resigned on 1 November 2016. We must therefore proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the first successor, in a useful order, to replace Mr Pieter De Crem. We must therefore proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the first substitute in good order to sit in place of Mr Pieter De Crem. This concerns Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, first successor to the CD&V list of the East Flanders constituency. This is Mr. Vincent Van Peteghem, the first alternate on the CD&V list for the electoral district of East Flanders. The credentials of this successor were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. The credentials of this alternate were validated at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the supplementary examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choosing only concerns the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this successor be allowed to sit as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as minister and for the duration of his term of office. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this alternate to serve as a member of the House of Representatives in place of a member appointed by the King as Minister and for the duration of his duties. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I would ask Mr Vincent Van Peteghem to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Vincent Van Peteghem to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u3	Mr Vincent Van Peteghem will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Vincent Van Peteghem will be a member of the Dutch language group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u4	Mr President, I rise here to ask you to apply Rule 67 of our Rules of Procedure. As you probably know, it has been more than a month and a half since the Minister of Energy, here, obstructed and did not allow parliamentarians to do their work of controlling the government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the issue of the nuclear tax and the application of the Tihange 1 Convention. I will not review all the contents of this convention. On the other hand, I would like to stress the very dangerous precedent that could constitute a ban on parliamentarians from accessing all the relevant documents in order to be able to exercise their control over the government. Mr President, we have, of course, taken into account the elements that require the organisation of what is called a data room, that is, a closed place to which only parliamentarians can have access in order to read the documents. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like you all to be able, in your own soul and conscience, to imagine the consequences of the refusal of parliamentarians to have access to these documents. Indeed, the argument put forward by the minister – we received the documents in the Conference of Presidents – is that the private actor refuses to give Parliament the information. However, we have asked the services of Parliament, but also our own services, to carry out a legal study to see if there is a real problem. The conclusion of your services, Mr. President, is clear. There are no legal obstacles to Members of Parliament having access to the documents they have requested in the context of the implementation of the Tihange 1 Convention. Colleagues, our services draw a clear conclusion, but the minister refuses to do so. That is why we have referred to this point on several occasions in the Conference of Presidents; my fellow group leaders are aware of it. We waited, because each time a request was made to increase the quality of the legal documents given. Never, at any time, on any of the three occasions, nor at any of the three items on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents, did a legal argument contradict what the parliamentary services told us, namely that there was no obstacle to parliamentarians having access to all these documents. In spite of this, yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, a group leader opposed the consensus to disseminate these documents in a data room. Given the lack of consensus, our only opportunity was to hold this debate in plenary. I won't be longer, but I insist on the stakes. Mr President, I am making this request, pursuant to Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, to organize the data room in this context. In doing so, I will hand over all the documents to you so that you can distribute them to colleagues; not all of them are part of the Conference of Presidents. I hope that, in the vote that will now be held, we will all be aware of the issues at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u5	Mr Nollet, a simple question: is it a request for a change of agenda or a motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u6	I've been specific, but I'll tell you again, Mr. President. This is a request for the application of rule 67 of the Rules of the Chamber. With this request to several Members, Mr Delizée, Mrs Temmerman, Mrs Lalieux and I are asking for a data room to be set up within our Assembly, allowing Members of Parliament to consult, in accordance with the obligation of secrecy, the entire documents requested in the follow-up to the Convention of 12 March 2014 on the extension of the operating time of the Tihange 1 nuclear unit, the details of which are set out in the Annex. This is Rule 67(1), second paragraph, of our Rules of Procedure. This is not a request for an amendment to the agenda, but for the application of rule 67.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u7	Colleagues, Mr Nollet has given me the documents in which it is requested that a data room be set up within our Assembly allowing "parliaments to consult, in accordance with the obligation of secrecy, the fullness of the documents requested in the follow-up to the convention of 12 March 2014 on the extension of the duration of the operation of the Tihange 1 nuclear unit, the details of which are set out in the annex to this document". I propose that we vote on this proposal immediately. Yes, Mr. Ducarme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u8	Mr President, I have no problem but I do not see this item on the agenda of today's plenary. To vote on an item that is not on the agenda does not seem to me to be in conformity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u9	That is why my question to Mr Nollet is: is it a proposal for a change of agenda or a motion? Because there are regulatory differences between the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u10	Mr President, rule 67, which is rarely used, I agree, is clear in relation to the fact that, if a higher law or legal norm provides a legal basis for this, the House, the plenary assembly, may declare the obligation of secrecy applicable to information other than that referred to in the previous aliena (classical commissions). We are asking for this to be implemented. The aliena specifies that, in this case, the Chamber explicitly designates the matters and/or organs of the Chamber in which secrecy must be observed. That is why our request specifies the subjects involved and the organisation of a data room.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u11	Mr President, my concern is not to set precedents. We have laid down the agenda for the Chamber's plenary session. I believe that there are two ways to change that agenda. There can be a proposal for a change of agenda, but that is not happening now, or a motion can be tabled, but it is not happening now. However, reference is made to Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. That article speaks in five points about the obligation of confidentiality. I note that there is no proposal to change the agenda in the Chamber. I therefore believe that it is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u12	Mr President, we have signed this request for the application of Rule 67(1), second paragraph, because yesterday in the Conference of Presidents it was mentioned in particular by my group leader, who is apologised this afternoon. There were several episodes because you asked for a series of legal analyses. I'm not repeating what Mr. Nollet just said. The Chamber's Legal Service has made it clear that there is no opposition to the organization of a data room. There was no consensus in the Conference of Presidents. I wasn't there, but it seems that only one group leader from the majority spoke against the creation of a data room. We therefore call for democracy to act, i.e. the plenary session. Section 67 explains how we can keep the secret or not. At one point, quite legitimately, Mr President, we are asking for this plenary meeting to be decided on the transparency of elements. The only thing we want is to be able to act and exercise our democratic control. I think that is a minimum: transparency and democratic control. It is up to the plenary to decide on this democratic control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u13	Mr President, we have already had an opportunity to discuss this yesterday and I have heard my colleagues, in particular Mr Ducrame, speak on the subject, not only in the Conference of Presidents, but also here. Beyond what my colleagues have already developed, I would still like to address you, Mr President. Basically, it's your responsibility. You're not the government spokesman, as far as I know. You're the Speaker of the House. You are not the president of the majority, you are the president of the assembly. And you yourself, remember, you had written to Minister Marghem at the time. You asked him for a whole series of documents. Some were sent to you, others were not. You yourself said, as you wrote to us, that there was no justification for us not being able to access the documents in a manner that would ensure confidentiality. In this regard, we agree. Basically, they told you no, the minister first and the government then. But your responsibility is not to ensure the role of government or the responsibility of government. Your role is to allow the conditions for parliamentary scrutiny, including the provision of documents and the setting up of this famous data room that would allow them to be consulted. We had the same situation in the same case two years ago. Today, the minister says "no". In practice, and I have it here, in the previous government, Secretary of State Wathelet, in exactly the same context, decided to make these documents available to Parliament, with conditions of confidentiality. Nothing therefore prevents, Mr. President, from doing so. Since Article 67 is being implemented, it is first and foremost a matter of ensuring respect for the work of Parliament and for the control of the government by Parliament. This is your direct responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u14	Mr President, it is a bit one or the other. Either the Conference of Presidents says that it is going to be done and the Conference of Presidents accepts that there must be consensus on this. There wasn't one. Then we must allow the plenary to vote on it. Otherwise, we say that one leader prevents Parliament from voting on it. Now we can attach a lot of learned theories to that, but we can't. It is the consensus in one case or the public meeting in the other. One cannot say that to do this within two or three weeks, because then one is not doing it correctly. It's one or the other. Either we agree by consensus, or we play the majority. What's the matter with you? I know that the people of the government obviously want to do much better than the previous government. That's a very enviable assignment. However, there is a precedent. The previous agreement was also given to Parliament in a data room. When there has ever been an attempt to press a motion, you have said that this could not be because it was covered by secrecy. I didn't. I didn't. There has been some protest, but you have made this respect. There is therefore no reason today to disclose this agreement, as under the previous government, to Members of Parliament and no one else under strict conditions. I can't see any reason except that they don't want to show them. Last time it happened, why not now? That really doesn't make any sense. My plea is as follows. Firstly, let the public assembly give its opinion on this in plenary. That seems to me to be a democratic right. Secondly, do not fight for something that has already been allowed under the previous government and that has not been abused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u15	Mr President, I regret that it has come to this and I think that this is also the feeling of many colleagues. You also know that this was avoidable. We have been discussing this issue for a month and a half in the Conference of Presidents. At certain times, you yourself have made efforts to convince the Minister of Energy to simply do the same thing we have done in the past, in particular that contract, a million-dollar deal between the Belgian State and the French energy operators, not to put it on the Internet, but simply to look at it in a data room. You have made efforts to do so, but the Minister is blocking it. I regret that we have to talk about this today, but we have to choose now. It did not work in the Conference of Presidents because Mr Ducarme blocked it. I felt that other majority parties showed more openness there. If, however, the Conference of Presidents did not succeed, then the plenary must take a decision. We can think of all the things we need not to talk about, but we can look for other Rules in the Rules of Procedure to postpone the vote for another hour, but I think that now is the time for this plenum and for all the representatives of the people to speak on this issue. Mr Dewael, you do not want a precedent. Neither do we. We would find it a scandalous precedent if one group leader could stop a data room for looking at a million-dollar contract. That would be a precedent. So let us vote on that. Rule 67 is clear. The plenum must take a decision on this. Let us do that today, as representatives of the people, so that we can finally take up our control role.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u16	Mr President, we could recall the responsibilities of the State and the risks of condemnation it faces with regard to the establishment of this data room and the recurrent leaks in this Parliament. The question is not here. Mr Nollet would like us to vote on this. I'd like to, Mr. President, but if everyone... [[Applause]] [[(...):]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u17	... the dictatorship of the minority constantly prevents members of the majority from expressing themselves! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u18	Let Mr. Ducarme speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u19	If everyone, depending on his/her mood in the morning, according to the idea he/she may have had during lunchtime, arrives here and proposes to Parliament a vote that is not on the agenda, it may be very difficult to organise the work in this house! I doubt that this vote is in conformity, valid, if we are to vote on an item that is not on the agenda. These are only formal aspects. You may raise a point of order, but voting on an item that is not on the agenda is simply not in conformity!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u20	Mr President, I cannot let Mr Ducrame's remarks go. You know, like me, as well as all the group heads present at the Conference of Presidents, that it was announced yesterday that this dossier would come to plenary. We invited you to take the initiative. You asked us for a period of reflection. Is that correct, Mr. President? This happened well in the Conference of Presidents in the presence of Mr Borsus. At about 4:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m., you sent us an e-mail to say that you had already done a lot on this file, which is true: you summoned the minister, you gave her your position... isn't that true, minister? Mr. Chairman said that if it were up to him, he would organize this discussion, that he was in favour of it, but that we had to negotiate modalities, which makes sense. And we warned yesterday that we wanted to, but no consensus was reached. That is why we said that we would come to plenary. Of course, Mr Dewael, we did not mention Rule 67, because we were waiting to see, Mr Thiéry, what the President was going to decide. He asked us for a period of reflection. What we agreed to. When its deadline came to an end, with its response, we contacted the services to consider the possibility of coming to plenary. We have referred to Rule 67 and the President is aware of how we are going to work. So, Mr. Ducrame, to say that we take you by surprise is to show that you are not paying attention to the evolution of the files, which I cannot accept. But, Mr. President, the most important thing is not here. The most important thing is to know whether or not the parties of the majority, except that of Mr Ducrame, those who have already expressed themselves in committee, in particular Mrs Dierick, in favour of setting up a data room, on the condition – which I understand – that there is no legal obstacle... No, Mr. Borsus! You think there are. Minister, the services of the House, those at the disposal of Parliament, tell us that there is no legal obstacle to the establishment of the data room. I assume you've read this analysis. I appeal to colleagues in the majority. To those who have assured us in committee, and its chairman is here, that if there were no legal obstacles, they would be in favour of setting it up, I say that it is now time for coherence. In committee, you said you were in favour of it. There is no legal obstacle. Three debates were held in the Conference of Presidents. We don't take anyone by surprise. It is today that we must be consistent and vote in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u21	Mr President, I hear that Mr Ducarme is concerned about the possible validity of a vote here. I want to reassure him. In any case, the vote will always be valid. I also agree with what Mr Vande Lanotte said. It cannot be that one group chairman is trying to prevent or hinder the functioning of the full Chamber. That can't be. I propose that we vote on this. That vote will always be valid, Mr Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u22	Mr Vande Lanotte has taken the right position as a premise. There was no consensus in the Conference of Presidents. Does the Chamber have the right to speak? Of course, the Chamber always has the right to speak, provided, of course, that the Chamber is properly understood. I think, Mr Vuye, that we still respect the Rules of Procedure which we have adopted and do not vote until they are applied. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not been able to read the written document, but I am told in Mr Nollet's oral explanatory statement that he limited the subject matter of the letter he has submitted to the application of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, which is merely an article on the sanctioning of Members who have violated their confidentiality obligations in restricted meetings. Point final. You can, of course, allow the Chamber to take up this matter. I have no democratic problem with this, on the contrary, but then correctly understand it, in application of Article 17, by asking for a change in the agenda. Please take them correctly by submitting, where appropriate, an order motion in application of Article 54, but not in an article which is not applicable. What if that's too much to ask? At least do your homework correctly. If that is not possible, I suggest that you help him, Mr President, and that, in application of Rule 17.2 as President, you suggest an agenda change yourself. We shall then give our opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u23	Mr President, I would like to know your views, as President of this House, on the request just made on Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. I hear that some colleagues in the majority are not in favour of a vote. A vote is never just the expression of democracy in our assembly. If you are in favour, you vote in favour; if you are against, you vote against. What is the problem with the organisation of this vote? Are you going to propose it? I didn't hear your answer. Depending on this, I will or will not continue my development. What is your point of view, Mr. President? Are we organising a vote on Mr Nollet's proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u24	I will reply to you when each member who has asked for the floor has spoken. Then I'll make you a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u25	I have another point to make on this subject, but I conclude by asking you to organize the vote on the proposal that is on your table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u26	First, I'll give Mrs. Fonck a little answer. I have done my utmost to organize what has been requested, but neither the House nor the Speaker has the power to seize documents. Only a parliamentary committee of inquiry can do so. Secondly, I propose that what is before us, and which can indeed be formally said that it is neither a question of changing the agenda nor an order motion, should nevertheless be regarded as an order motion and to vote effectively on it. I regard this as an order-movement aimed at organizing, and so on. In the meantime, you know the story very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u27	Mr President, we have had a lot of discussions in the past, but I insist on thanking you. I believe that Article 67 provides a good basis for resolving this discussion. I would like to thank you for allowing that vote. I would particularly like to invite Mr Dewael, Mr Verherstraeten and the other Members of the majority to do what is normal as a Parliament, in particular to approve the inspection of this million-dollar contract in a data room. That is the question put by Mrs Dierick, Mr Lachaert, and it is actually the ultimate wish of the President of the Chamber. I think it's time for the plenum to settle this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give everyone the floor, but may I ask you to be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u29	Mr President, I will be very brief because I understand that there are legal arguments for refusing access because the State would be responsible. In that discussion, too, it is one or the other. Either that agreement states that Parliament should not know. If this is in it is an unconstitutional contract and that is a problem in itself. Either that provision does not exist and confidentiality must be respected. That's what the proposal says. If the agreement states that it must be kept confidential, which often happens in such agreements, there is no reason not to look at it that way. If there's more in that agreement, it's just unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u30	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you because this vote must take place. A moment ago, you said you did everything you could to try to move forward. Let me read out an official document from the House: "The President states that after careful reflection and an interview with the Minister, he has concluded that the installation of a data room is necessary to guarantee parliamentary control, provided that the confidentiality of documents is guaranteed". The president was you, and it was obviously not improvisation. Mr. Speaker, you have given a lot of thought and, after receiving legal advice from the House, you were quite convinced. Moreover, you know very well that if this data room is not set up, parliamentary scrutiny will no longer be guaranteed. There will then be a real case law. In doing so, you would accept that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we cannot guarantee the exercise of parliamentary control here, solely on the basis of the government's decision. It is also your responsibility here, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Either you decide to be just an appendix to the government and you no longer guarantee parliamentary control, or you decide that even if you are a member of the majority, you must ensure this parliamentary control. Mr President, I therefore hope that the parliamentarians of the majority will follow you and that, for your part, you will remain consistent with what you have stated and written on several occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u31	I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we vote on this order of business and that we vote in favour and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u32	Mr President, I have no problem with the vote at all, but I just want to avoid that from next Thursday you will have to say yes to anyone who asks for the floor and invites the Chamber to express an opinion or to organise a vote. I would ask that we know what game we are playing. Either we are asking for an amendment to the agenda, which I do not think is the case, or there is Article 67, which does not apply to this because it deals with the obligation of confidentiality. That Article only deals with sanctions which may be applied in the event of breach of the obligation of professional secrecy. You interpret what has been filed as a motion. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u33	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u34	Mr President, this poetic freedom is very difficult for me. I really do not want to go any further than necessary, because I see that someone who starts on a particular subject can occupy the Chamber for 40 to 45 minutes. If that is the future, then I have serious reservations about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u35	I will do everything I can, Mr Dewael, to ensure that this is not the future. However, you will understand, as a member of the Conference of Presidents, that we must get rid of this discussion and that is only one method, in particular by voting on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u36	Mr President, I do not want to exhaust the debate, but, again, next time this precedent is referred to to to go further. Once again, we must get out of this discussion. I am long enough in Parliament to know that if there is no unanimity in the Conference of Presidents, one or two Members will be able to ask the Chamber to give its opinion. This does not happen automatically, either you need to change the agenda or you need to submit a motion. I note that there is today a reference to Article 67. I note that with your indulgence the opposition is now saying that it is not actually Rule 67 but that it is all too happy that the President of the Chamber makes a motion. So we have spontaneously evolved from Rule 67 to a motion. Otherwise, I won't be taking part in this vote. I'll keep my head down. I really want to save the Chamber from... Mr President, several Members have been given the floor twice. I'd like to continue. This has not really been about the substance of the case, unless indirectly. I'm sorry to hear that. It can be said that the Chamber must give its opinion and then the debate is open and everyone can develop their arguments on the substance of the matter. Now that has not happened, now that it is dealt with side by side. I regret that because it gives a very unorganized impression to the outside world. Once again, I want to avoid repeating this in the coming weeks, in the future. After all, it will be an organisation that no one has any control over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u37	Mr Dewael, I can follow you very much. It is true, this is not a proposal to amend the agenda. Nor is it an order motion, unless Mr Nollet lets me know that it is an order motion. If he doesn't, and I understand he does... So this is not a point of order. By applying... [[Brouhahaha]] I regret to say that, in applying the answer and by establishing in-depth differences of opinion, the request is inadmissible, because it does not concern the application of Article 67. You will have the last word, Mr Nollet, and we shall then turn to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u38	Mr President, I can understand and accept the difficulty that some people find themselves in. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u39	Mr President, the MR Group must be calmed down!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u40	Mr President, I can fully understand and respect the unease experienced by some. Nevertheless, my request – perhaps there are others – was to go through article 67. You told me that you would organize a vote on that basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u41	I proposed it to the House, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u42	Mr President, that was my request anyway. I maintain that this is a possible path, even if I do not claim that it is the only one. Depriving ourselves of this is a real problem, because it means preventing parliamentarians from bypassing the veto of a single group leader in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u43	Mr President, I am trying to follow the order of our business and I wonder who is presiding over this House. Do we vote or not? It seems that after saying that we would do so, you announced that we would not vote on the basis of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to intervene, not by following my mood this morning, which was better than yesterday's, but as chairman of the Committee on the Economy. Indeed, there are substantive and procedural problems. The substantive issue is that of parliamentary scrutiny. This is the way in which every Member present here, whether of the majority or of the opposition, intends to exercise his or her mission, namely to control the government. Is our assembly a chamber of endorsement of what the government, a minister or a minister thinks? I don't think so. For each of us, and especially for the majority colleagues, the debate is this: how do they intend to exercise their task of monitoring the action of the government, on a specific issue? I would like to recall that, under the previous legislature, under the same conditions of confidentiality, a data room was organised about the Tihange Convention, under precise and rather restrictive conditions, say eyes only – no taking of notes or photos. At the Committee on the Economy on 27 September, I convened a committee on the day of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation's celebration in the afternoon for a project that required urgency, because there was a delay in certain deadlines. In this committee, we discussed redacted documents that did not allow colleagues to do their work. The committee, including colleagues from the majority, expressed its support for the organisation of a data room. The question then became bogged down in the Conference of Presidents with legal notes which show that we have the full power to organise this data room, under conditions set by you and the Conference of Presidents. We will speak in a few moments on this issue. I therefore believe that everyone must do so by asking whether he or she wants to exercise his or her parliamentary oversight function. That's for the bottom. I come to the Rules of Procedure; if there is to be a point of order, I have here, signed by several colleagues, on the same subject and the same annexes. I propose not to reread his object. I table before you, Mr. Chairman, a point of order referring to rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, and I request that you hold the vote on this point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u44	I have before me a point of order, with the same text, which exempts me from reading it. This text is signed by the same authors. Since it's an order motion, I'm declaring it admissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on that order motion, as far as I am concerned, to sit and stand up. [[Objection]] You want a name vote? We vote on the order motion. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u45	Yes 53 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the order motion was rejected. Accordingly, the point of order is dismissed. We shall now proceed to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u46	Minister, interest rates have been historically low for some time. This is mainly due to the policy of the European Central Bank, which in this way wants to encourage banks to use their money to lend credit to businesses and families. That policy is so extreme that there is even negative interest rates at the European Central Bank, and that also affects the man in the street. A savings book hardly pays off these days. Most banks offer the legal minimum of 0.11 per cent interest rates, and the banks are even trying to circumvent this by switching to unregulated savings accounts, so that they do not even have to pay the 0.11 per cent interest rate. Last week I learned that Minister Van Overtveldt is looking for a solution to that problem, so that every saver would get at least 0.11% of savings and I hope you will support him in that. That low interest rate has another effect. Some people with a floating-rate residential credit are now even entitled to negative interest rates. In other words, instead of paying interest on their residential credit, they should even receive interest. Some banks apply this rule correctly, but we find that not all banks adopt the same attitude. Some banks refuse to pay interest to their customers, even if they are contractually obliged to do so. Ombudsfin has already expressed itself in favour of the consumer, but it seems that this advice is not being followed. Mr Minister, if the recalculation of interest rates leads to negative interest rates, should the bank apply them, or can the banks escape them through certain clauses in the contracts? What will you do to call the banks to order in this matter? In the margins of the interest-rate debate, I would also ask you whether you agree with Minister Van Overtveld that any saver should receive at least 0.11% interest on his savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u47	Mr Klaps, I will reply briefly, but clearly. I have knowledge of the file you're referring to and what Ombudsfin is doing. A discrepancy has been established between the special and general terms and conditions of the contract. The general terms and conditions state that interest rates can never be negative, while the special terms and conditions do not include an explicit lower limit on the revision in minus of the variable interest rate. Ombudsfin considered that, because of this contradiction, the special conditions should take precedence over the general conditions. This means that negative interest rates can also be applied in these residential loans. There is further consultation between Ombudsfin and the banks concerned. I'll be very clear. Ombudsfin's assertion, in particular that special conditions prevail on the general conditions, is a general principle of law, which I believe should not be departed from, especially if it is in the consumer's interest or, in a negative way, if it would harm the consumer. The increase in transparency among banking institutions is absolutely essential. We have already talked about this. The conditions must be clear, simple and coherent. I am finalising a royal decree whereby I will clearly impose maximum amounts for file costs as from 1 December. I expect a clear outcome from the discussions between Ombudsfin and the banks concerned. I'll consult with all the banks afterwards. Let it be clear, however, when the special conditions state that negative interest rates are possible, that is an important element and primes it on the general terms and conditions. Mr Klaps, I support the work of my colleague in Finance on regulated savings books. You can tell him that he has my full support, should he doubt it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u48	Mr Minister, pacta sunt servanda, also for the banks. After all, it is not the customers who draw up the contracts or the fine print in the banks. If they are to the advantage of the bank, they are to be applied as well, which is right. If they are to the benefit of the consumer, they must of course also be applied. Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are looking for a solution to guarantee our savers a minimum return on their savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u49	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, France is commemorating, these days, the first anniversary of the Paris attack of 13 November 2015, which was the largest massacre of civilians in French territory, since Oradour-sur-Glane, since 1945. My motion for questions concerns my wish to be with our French friends, to be able to honour the memory of these victims, to be able to tell them that we are making every effort to know what happened on 13 November, when we were also hit on 22 March by the same group of terrorists, by the same network of terrorists. My central question, Mr. Minister of the Interior, is whether you think we are better protected against such attacks today. This is the main question for the population. There are reasons for satisfaction with this question. First, the commitment of our police officers, our security forces, who are on the ground, on a daily basis, to try to better protect our population, the flow of information better than yesterday, and the existence of more collaborations between certain services. The second point is that you have begun to correct the budget bottlenecks that occurred at the beginning of the legislature and to re-engage budgetary resources in relation to these security services. The third reason for satisfaction is that the House has adopted a series of legislative provisions. We know the limitations of certain provisions. We wanted to go faster in certain provisions We have adopted some of them again, not later than this noon, especially in relation to the NRP. On the other hand, there are reasons for concern. First of all, our police forces are at the end of the roll. They can't take it anymore. They're calling for help. They've got their heads under the water. They tell us that they need additional resources, and I will come back to that. Secondly, our security architecture is still far too complex today. Thirdly, there is no central pilotage and there is a lack of resources. I would like to correct what you said in The Last Hour this morning. No, you do not repair the lack of commitment from the past, you partially repair the lack of commitment you had at the beginning of the legislature. Mr Minister of the Interior, on the freezing of the assets of the fifteen terrorists, I would like to know a little more about the amounts and the criteria. As for the indicators, I would like to know the principles that will guide you for their commitment, as well as the amounts and number of indicators that you are going to undertake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Interior, we have had an effective discussion this afternoon on an important draft. We came to the conclusion together that there is no such thing as a single clear measure to tackle terrorism, but a great deal of effort is needed. We all recognise that special efforts are rightly expected from the local level to take on responsibility in the fight against violent radicalism and potential terrorism. I am witness to the fact that many actors are effectively taking up their responsibilities. Hence, as mayor, along with many other mayors, there are a number of people in the Chamber who were particularly satisfied to be able to count on support from the federal government through impulses last year. With an envelope of 1.4 million euros, some fifteen cities were strengthened in their challenge to capture radicalism and share expertise with other administrations. We are now exactly a year away and I understand that I hope I am wrong or that the people of the VVSG are mistaken about the ending of the impulse devices. These would not even be granted for 2016 and there would be no provision for an extension for the coming years. This is also part of a new task for Unit R, the unit that has assumed responsibility at Home Affairs to exchange expertise between administrations. This unit has also been important to support local authorities. The question is whether this unit will continue to exist. Both questions concerned a great many people and I would like to have a clear answer to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions on these two very different issues. Mr Dallemagne, the questions you have asked me about, in particular, blocking the financial resources of terrorists fall within the competence of my colleague from Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u53	I can tell you that, as part of the arrangements that I have put in place, the members of the federal police and the local police have been sent to the field. But it's hard for me to answer you, if you don't ask me specific questions. Mr Bonte, you are asking two questions. The first question is about the Impulsfonds. The protocol agreement you signed with us stated that we would grant a one-off grant for the start-up of the local integrated security cells. We are fulfilling that commitment. That's a once-in-a-lifetime grant. All other subsidies continue. It is only about the amount for the start-up of the local integrated safety cells. You mentioned fifteen cities, but many other cities and municipalities have also started to do so, and I will work out a legal anchoring of the local integrated safety cells. You also asked about Unit R. There may be confusion about this, because of course this unit will continue to exist and thus continue to function. I can mention a number of things in this connection. Also in Vilvoorde there have been very recent initiatives of the Unit Radicalization of the FPS Home Affairs. Within that unit, six people were active around the bond with the local integral security cells. What did they do? They made the link between the safety cells and the OCAD. What do we do now? We put those six people at the OCAD, because it doesn't really make sense to make a triangular relationship and to go through the Unit R of the FPS Home Office. We are going to have this unit coordinate directly, in the two directions, between the local security cells and the OCAD. There is therefore no question of a reduction in resources. There is, however, a reorganisation in order to give this unit a clearer, more targeted task in such a way that everything can go more directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u54	Mr President, I want to protest. I find this lack of response completely unacceptable. I had a question that was very general. First of all, I would like to point out that we are commemorating this attack in Paris. As we know, Belgium, some Belgian nationals have responsibilities in this attack. It's the same network as the one that hit on March 22, 2016. I think you could have had a word with regard to these victims and France. That was the main reason for my intervention here in the House. It is that the House and the Belgian government are not talking about what happened a year ago in France. The second thing is that you made statements this morning to the newspaper La Dernière Heure, to be precise. You have made budgetary statements, Mr. Minister of the Interior, which are inaccurate and which I wanted to correct. And when I correct them here in the House, you refer to the Minister of Finance. So you don't have to make these inaccurate statements to the press and you have to admit that in reality, your budget for State Security is in decline compared to 2012, that it is in stagnation for the judicial police and that it is in decline for the federal police as well as for the judiciary. That is the reality of the figures, Mr. Minister of the Interior! Finally, my central and main question, which I insisted on, was whether our citizens were better protected. You didn't want to answer that question either. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do have reservations about Unit R. Is this part of the OCAD, which is actually responsible for the threat and the threat analysis? I believe that this unit belongs more fundamentally and organizationally in your Department of the Interior, although this may be a discussion behind the decimal place. A second element deals with the covenant that we have all concluded. This was a one-off incentive subsidy which sets the bar high in terms of its implementation by the authorities concerned. For one piece, they need to build up, distribute and transfer expertise to other units, both from the federal government and from other governments. I can only indicate that most boards, at least the board I know best, receive daily questions about exchange, including how a LIVC works and how to deal with the precise follow-up. The assignments for the local authorities have not changed, only the funds are temporary, as was decided last year. I hope that the amount of EUR 1.4 million will still be a viable card for this year. The fifteen cities on which I had been able to use these funds more than well, I am sure you will accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u56	Minister, today we read in the newspaper that the possessions of Oussama Atar, the suspected brain behind the attacks of Zaventem and Maalbeek, were frozen by order of the federal government. This administrative freeze has been possible since 2006, on the basis of a Royal Decree, which is important, Mr Minister, which was activated under the current government. This is an important instrument in our fight against terrorism, in order to prevent the freezing of the assets of terrorists and potential terrorists. We had an interesting debate yesterday in the Home Affairs Committee on the succession of returned Syrian fighters. Unfortunately, we are the court supplier of ISIS and ISIS fighters. With the return of many Syrian fighters, this is an important tool for achieving a number of things in our fight against terrorism. The freezing shall be carried out by means of a national list of persons and groups established. That list is, of course, regularly updated. It exists alongside a number of other lists, both from the European Union and from the United Nations. Those lists are of course also very important for our country. Minister, what is the procedure for compiling that list? How many people are on that list today? You know we have a list of foreign terrorist fighters. There's a lot of people on that list. What is the difference between this list and the one you're going to work with to freeze the assets of terrorists and potential terrorists? What steps are you going to take in the short and long term to ensure that this policy continues in a good way and to live up to our fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u57	The Royal Decree of 2006 was adopted on the basis of a recommendation from the OECD, in particular the GAFI (Groupe d'Action Financière), which is responsible at international level for combating money laundering and financing for combating terrorism. We have worked out a procedure whereby the National Security Council, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, proposes a number of names which the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, has frozen their funds. The OCAD, our organization that determines the threat analysis, is the flywheel. The OCAD has made proposals on 27 names. Their funds have been frozen by Finance with the help of the notification point to the National Bank. The difficulty is that this procedure should not interfere with other procedures. In other words, she can't alert people. We prefer not to do that with people who are already in prison because there is little likelihood that they will finance their activities with those funds. We do that, of course, with FTFs, mainly with those who are not here or who we cannot trace. So we can't go through any other investigations. We are going to systematically extend that list over the next few months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that this measure is an important step towards tackling FTFs. Those are often people who are active at the front. It is important that we meet them where we must meet them, in their ability. It is also important that the OCAD works very closely and makes decisions, on a case-by-case basis. I hope that list will be updated regularly. We are very pleased that this government has activated the KB of 2006. In doing so, we are taking an important step in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, I was pleased to hear from the press that you intend to legislate to allow homosexuals to give their blood. Indeed, the Reform Movement has longed for progress in this area for many years. My colleague, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, has already spoken on the subject on many occasions. As far as I am concerned, I have tabled a resolution under the previous legislature to allow homosexuals to give their blood. Your initiative is, in any case, important inasmuch as we wish to put an end to this discrimination, which is to exclude for life the donation of blood by homosexuals. In our view, it is risky sexual behaviour that needs to be considered, not sexual orientation. It is therefore risky behaviour for both homosexuals and heterosexuals that must be taken into account. Anyway, we've learned that you've been planning to open the blood donation to abstinent homosexuals for the past 12 months. Minister, what did you rely on to take this step? Have any opinions been issued in this regard? The Higher Council of Health was supposed to issue an opinion. Did you get it? How do you justify this 12-month abstinence period? Other countries, including Spain and Italy, have set a shorter abstinence period. Could the time limit you set be reduced or not? Why? Are you going to ensure that you do not create new discrimination by also providing a time frame for heterosexual people, some of whom multiply sexual adventures and thereby risk? What, Madam Minister, about the situation of homosexuals in a couple and faithful?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u60	Mrs Jadin, health and safety remain the top priority. Patients must be sure that they are getting safe blood. However, I propose to adapt the law. People with risky behaviour will now be excluded but for a fixed period of time. So far, men who had sex with men were excluded from blood donation in Belgium for life. The duration of the exclusion will depend on the risk behaviour. In answer to your first question: scientific studies have shown that the risk of positive HIV is significantly higher in men who have sex with men, compared to heterosexual men. That's the reality! When it comes to men having sex with men, the risk is 1 in 20. In heterosexual men, the risk is 1 in 5,000. My proposal is that in the future, men who have sex with men will be able to give their blood provided they have refrained from sexual intercourse with a man for 12 months. We align ourselves with other countries such as France, the United Kingdom and the United States. We are taking this step because it is important to take account of the evolution of science and of citizens who want to give blood responsibly so that they can make a valuable contribution to society. Of course, we have taken into account the opinion of the European Court and the Higher Council of Health. We have worked extensively with scientists, blood establishments, teachers of ethics and sociology, as well as with various representatives of homosexual movements. Blood establishments will properly inform blood donor candidates with the utmost respect for privacy. In conclusion, this is a first step, but it is a very important step. I commit myself in the future to shortening the period if scientific evidence permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you once again. Why? Because you are the first of the Ministers of Public Health to address this issue in an attempt to find solutions. We have to call him back. As I said at the outset, I had already tabled a motion for a resolution four years ago, which unfortunately remained unanswered. Of course, I take note of your initiatives in terms of consultation. For my part, I am not specialized in natural sciences. Therefore, I can only refer to the scientific data you have mentioned. This is an important first step, Minister. If science allows, we'll have to open the blood donation to everyone. I wanted to make it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Pensions, you are definitely making a big deal! After the opposition to Parliament, after that of the trade unions in the consultative bodies, after that of the citizens in the demonstrations, this is the protest of the experts. These are not just any experts, but those you have chosen to form the Academic Council. Experts recognized for their qualities, experts from the north and south of the country, left and right sensitivities. What do they say unanimously? They say, like us, that your reforms have only one budgetary objective and that they distort the social contract which must, on the contrary, be strengthened. They say that there needs to be broad consultation and a strong legal pension. You're way out of line because you're doing the opposite! By ideology, you weaken the legal pension, you put the workers' money in the supplementary pension. But you know that the second pillar is almost no longer yielding, less than inflation. What about tomorrow? "The second pillar no longer plays its social role", the Court of Auditors says. The second pillar, in the current financial context, is increasingly insecure. Mr Minister, after asking the social partners to sacrifice any wage enhancement for the benefit of the insurers, today you are putting on track an individual supplementary pension financed by social and tax benefits and accessible only to the most affluent. As experts say, your policy is taking a dangerous turn for solidarity and for the purchasing power of 2.5 million pensioners. It's a strong and heavy statement. Minister, have you understood that you need to change your approach? Stop these measures that hurt pensioners and future pensioners and especially the weakest! Are you going to bury this false idea of an individual free pension? If you maintain your idea, how are you going to secure savers and avoid the end of real collective supplementary pensions involving the employer? Finally, reassure me, you're not going to dismantle the Academic Council for its position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we too are in favour of a good legal pillar. In this respect, a number of adjustments have been made to safeguard that pillar in the future. The commitment taken to bring the minimum pension to the level of 10% above the poverty line is still part of it. We stand by that, too. In addition to this good legal pillar, a good supplementary pension is needed. We have, on the one hand, a system of redistribution and, on the other hand, a system of capitalization. It is important that both pillars exist. As far as supplementary pensions are concerned, we have stated in the government agreement that it is important to broaden this pillar. Today, about three-quarters of the employees are employed. The remaining fourth should also be added. We want a widening but also a deepening. In other words, where the amounts of deposit are reduced, they could also be increased, with the guarantees that exist today through collective supplementary pensions. It is in that context that we see the slopes of employees' own contribution. It is important that the supplementary pension can be built up and that the widening and deepening can be there. However, Minister, this cannot be done to discourage employers. On the contrary, it should rather encourage them to develop the second pillar as a basis. This must not be done in order to reduce the protection of workers. We do not want to allow those involved to run the risk of private savings with guarantees. However, it is important to ensure that this is linked to a collective supplementary pension, as it exists today. Minister, we do not want it to serve merely as an extra playing field for those who already have the necessary financial resources today and who can develop their third pillar, and who today can guarantee the financial security for themselves for themselves for later. Minister, I would like to turn my question to supplementary pensions. In what way will you organise further consultations on what is known as individual supplementary pensions, knowing that the employer must also continue to pay the price and that there must be proper protection, as it exists today, within collective supplementary pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u64	Mr Minister, I would like to begin with a rather simple question. First of all, do you, as Minister of Pensions, not still think it is your job to strengthen the statutory pension in the first place? I ask you because you are constantly working on the supplementary pension, the uncertain pension that depends on the outcome of the financial markets. I am asking you because the government is interfering with the statutory pension by constantly trying to reduce the treated periods before the pension, which means that many people de facto have a lower statutory pension. I believe that it must still be your ambition and the ambition of the government to provide a strong legal pension for the people. Secondly, what exactly do you intend to do with the report of the Pension Reform Committee led by Professor Frank Vandenbroucke? I see you do cherry picking all the time. You do not strengthen the statutory pension, but you do deal with the supplementary pension. You are constantly increasing the retirement age, but you are not engaged in workable work, even for the heavy-duty professions. What is the status for you, the value of expert advice? They have produced a fine report, but this government is ruining it by always taking out just the items that fit into your own agenda. Thirdly, the ideological choice of this government to distract as many workers as possible and push towards supplementary pensions is not our choice. That's not our choice! We do not want to exchange the guaranteed statutory pension for the risk derivatives of the financial markets. All the more so, Minister, because 3 out of 10 employees still do not have a supplementary pension. It cannot be the intention, as you propose in your measures, to have employees individually close a pension savings plan against individual employers. The ambition of a government is to ensure a legally secure pension, Minister. I am particularly concerned about the chain of small but wrong measures that you put on the table almost week after week. I would ask you to change your course and make a clear statement today in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I suggest that you throw the report of the Committee on Pension Reform in the trash. You are not following at all what is in that report and what is the basis of it. What does that report say in essence? We must ensure that today's young people have security for the pension of the future. It does not mean supplementary pensions, it means statutory pensions. With every measure you take, you break down that time and time again. What are you doing? You extend the age and you pay less pensions. One has to work longer for less pension. You increase the highest pensions, without providing an equivalent for the lowest pensions. Those are the measures you are taking. Minister, you said that the legal pension will not be enough in the future. It is your job to ensure that the statutory pension is sufficient in the future. What's your solution? Your solution is to transform the second pillar into an investment, which we know today is a huge risk. Do you want to be the minister responsible for telling young people that they need to invest in the future and that if it ends well, they will have a good pension and if it ends less well, they will have fewer pensions? Minister, may I remind you that the second pillar is impossible for many people because they have no access to it and because their sector does not provide for it. That still hasn't been resolved. In his report, the Court of Auditors has shown very clearly that the second pillar is only good for people who already have a high wage, and therefore a high pension. So it can't be there either. I come to my questions, which are actually the questions of your Academic Council. After all, you have not answered any of their questions, so I am now putting them in this plenum. Who will be eligible for your additional savings product? How will you guarantee that the employer will still install the second pillar? After all, he has no interest in this. It is much easier for him to negotiate an individual second pillar with each employee individually. Finally, and that is the most important question, who will bear the risk to your individual second pillar, so that today's young people are sure of tomorrow's pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have of course heard last Friday about the carte blanche published in the newspaper Le Soir and allow me to remember two elements of this media release. It is now accepted by the Academic Council that raising the pension age to 67 was "presumably inevitable", Mr. Daerden. I also note that the Council considers that "it is good that a first pillar should be supplemented by a second pillar of pension". That is the positive aspect. I also see critical elements. The first criticism indeed concerns the establishment of a supplementary free pension scheme for employed persons and, according to this white card, this measure would be anti-social, would push employers to abandon the path of the collective supplementary pension. I find this criticism a little surprising. First of all, we can ask ourselves about timing. The idea of introducing a supplementary free pension scheme for employed persons is not new. This project, which has been confirmed by the government in the last fiscal year, was already in the October 2014 government agreement. It is also strange that the president of the Academic Council suddenly found it useful to report his grievances in the press, while... ..in the course of the month of February of this year, I proposed that the outline of the project be defined with the Academic Council. He stated at the time that he would talk about it with the council, but he has not yet responded to the proposal. The criticisms of the President of the Academic Council are also surprising. The right for the employee to freely build up a supplementary pension is indeed already registered under certain conditions in Article 33 of the Supplementary Pensions Act adopted in 2003 by the current President of the Academic Council, Frank Vandenbroucke, who was then Minister of Pensions. What I propose is nothing more than an update of the regime in the Vandenbroucke Act, in order to make it more effective. Our goal is to allow all employees, including those working for an SME or smaller structures that do not organise a supplementary pension, to build up a supplementary pension. It is a question of fairness and social justice. It is therefore an additional tool aimed at generalising supplementary pensions. Contrary to what is suggested, the tool does not prejudice the collective system of supplementary pensions organised by employers and sectors to which the government is very attached. This system will continue to be attractive, both to the employer and to the employee. Of course, this must be done by setting limits and precise conditions, so that the free supplementary pension integrates harmoniously into the whole of the reforms aimed at democratisation of the second pillar of pensions. Mrs Becq, I insist on reaffirming that, without the reforms we have undertaken, the statutory pension was genuinely threatened in our country. Today the statutory pension is guaranteed. Everything we have done so far has been aimed at strengthening the legal pension, contrary to what some claim. There is no basis for opposing legal pensions and supplementary pensions, except ideological ones. The statutory pension and the supplementary pension are obviously not incompatible. On the contrary, both are necessary because it is necessary to know how to allocate the risks. Mr Daerden is asking me about social consultation. I have noted the second criticism of the white card regarding the point pension that would not have been taken up by the government. Again, I find this criticism surprising because the point pension project as defined by the Pension Reform Commission is reflected in the government agreement as well as in my various policy notes. However, as you yourself say, Mr Daerden, such a reform cannot succeed without having been submitted to social consultation. This is what I have done since the establishment of the National Pension Committee (NPC). And the president of the Academic Council had the opportunity, on my initiative, to expose twice the point pension system to the CNP. It is not enough to develop good ideas, but to look at how they can be implemented without undermining the rights of citizens. There we had to note that the President of the Academic Council was very reluctant on the part of the social partners – trade unions and employers – and of the senior officials of the pension administrations. This probably explains the current frustration of the President of the Academic Council. Noting these difficulties, as a mediator, I organized a meeting between the Chair of the Academic Council and senior officials to discuss ways to address the objections raised in the National Pension Committee. On 15 September, I asked the President of the Academic Council for a preparatory note setting out the elements of the reply to the comments made by the administrations and social partners. This note hasn't arrived yet. In conclusion, I confirm my intention to continue the reforms approved by the government. The carte blanche published last Friday will not make me deviate from the heading fixed. A new meeting with the President of the Academic Council, however, seems necessary in order to take stock of our collaboration. It was set for 17 November. The Academic Council was established by the Act of 21 May 2015. Since then, I have asked him to continue to reflect on a number of issues, including the modernization of the family dimension. After more than a year of operation, I must note that he has not yet sent me any report in this regard. That is why I think it is useful to take stock of the progress of its work. It is not by publishing political fora in the press that this body fulfils the role entrusted to it by the legislator. As a reminder, the above-mentioned Act provides that the Academic Council is a body whose task is to provide ministers with pensions in their powers, either on their own initiative or at their request, with a scientifically substantiated opinion on any pension proposal. I therefore invite him to respect this mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u67	Minister, your answers, if I may say so, call for a number of reactions. First of all, you talk about social consultation when it suits you. You are taking the wrong measures without agreement - let's just think of 67 years old. You then talk about the penitibility and the point pension for which you are going to consult. This is how you approach your reforms. Then, your reading of this white card is somewhat biased. You point to the inevitable nature of the decline in retirement at age 67 and the importance of the second pillar. For citizens to work longer, incentives are needed, not obligations. It is not by chance that three quarters of citizens reject the age-setting of 67 in your reform. We do not say no to a second pillar, if it is solidarity, widespread, if it fulfils its social role and ensures a real complement, which is not the case at present. Finally, it is not through the censorship of the Committee or the Academic Council that you will have a reform that will lead to accession. It is not by obstinacy, by saying that your science is more extensive than that of the experts, and that you have more social fiber than the social partners, or without popular support, that you will get a reform that carries. Be the minister of all pensioners, not the minister of pension funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u68	Minister, as the Vandenbroucke Committee says, it is good that a robust first pillar is complemented by a second pension pillar. We must guarantee the future of the first pillar. We are all living longer and, for this reason, additional measures have been taken, inter alia, with a view to longer working hours and greater participation in the labour market. These measures should strengthen the first pillar. In addition, as we say not only this legislature, this is what we said in the previous legislature, and before that and before that, a supplementary pension is important. Witness to this is the Vandenbroucke Act on supplementary pensions, which provides that both the employer and the employee can contribute to that pension. We are counting on it, Mr President, to incorporate the regulation of the individual contributions of workers, as it stands today. This can be a lever to broaden and expand collective supplementary pensions while at the same time offering the opportunity to achieve higher benefits in supplementary pensions through higher premiums. However, all this must be based on the collective supplementary pension scheme as it exists today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u69	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the criticism of the Academic Council does not just fall out of the sky. You play the man instead of the ball. I have not yet known many ministers who dare to say here in Parliament that they are not really very happy with the social debate and with the advice of experts who are investigating the pension matter. I do not know many ministers who dare to say that. We now have a number of professors and scientists who are interfering in the debate and you're going to kill them live on camera. Actually, I think that's all downstairs. In addition, you're playing the man because you're fixating on the president, but the statement of the academy was drafted by a dozen pension experts. So this isn't just about Frank Vandenbroucke. The criticism is widespread in our society. What particularly bothers me about your adoration of the supplementary pension is that you pretend that supplementary pension can really make a difference for pensioners. That is not the case today. What makes a difference for people is a strong legal pension. It bothers me that you want to see this reality less and less often and that you are increasingly focusing on the lack of a secure legal pension and the development of individual pension plans, so I call it peanuts, with which people are nothing at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u70	Minister, you are clearly a man of the past. I'm not playing the man. I'm playing your policy. Just to be clear, you're talking about Frank Vandenbroucke, while it's about the Academic Council. Anyway, I'm not doing that. I'm talking about your policy. It's always good to know history, Minister. You're a man from 1865. In that year the ASLK, the General Spaar- en Lijfrentekas, was founded. Excuse me, but I don't know the French equivalent. What did this General Savings and Loan Cash want to do? He wanted to organize an individual pension savings for the employee. That was done, but after the Second World War it was established that it did not work and that it was necessary to go to a collectivity. After all, who benefits from individual pension savings? These are people who have a high wage, and then have a high pension. People who have average or low wages do not benefit from it. That was then abolished and the collective second pillar was conceived, which was later modified by Frank Vandenbroucke. You want to go back! You want to go back to 1865. We will oppose that, Minister. Solidarity in the pension system is important to us. You're not the Minister of Pensions, you're the Minister of Pension Dismantling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u71	Mr President, Minister, you made some promises two years ago as Minister of Finance. Let me remind you of those promises. You promised that you would be a good family father, you promised that you would put your house in order and you promised that there would be a balance in 2018. The budget is done. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provide that the budget is to be submitted on 15 October. A month later, the budget has still not been tabled, but the European Commission has already had the opportunity to review the budget. When I see the result, I understand why this government is too late with the budget or does not dare to submit the budget, why you are not giving us the opportunity to look at your figures and why you are avoiding the debate. What do we determine? The European Commission is actually saying that your policy is a failure. Two years ago, when you started, the budget deficit was 3%. What happened in those two years? The people have paid, due to different bill increases, for example for electricity, water, tobacco and petrol. The people also had to turn in, because of the index jump. However, the result is that the budget deficit is still 3%, just like when you started. The European Commission is not only concerned about today's situation, it is even more concerned about the future, because, as we have already said, Minister, your tax shift has not been financed. So you are in the process of transferring the invoice. In short, your policy is a failure. You had a budget deficit of 3% two years ago. You made people pay and we still have a budget deficit of 3%. When will you change your mind and put your budget in order? When will you finally ensure that people are no longer the victims of your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u72	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the European Commission announced its autumn forecast. It calls for more attention from the government to be paid to the budgetary outcome. It seems that we will have a budget deficit of 3% for 2016 and that the planned structural improvement for 2016 will not be achieved. The European Commission also doubts the budgetary targets for 2017, as set by the government a few weeks ago. It therefore appears that, in addition to the 2016 deficit, the budgetary targets for 2017 will not be met in the sense proposed by the government either. As far as our public debt is concerned, the European Commission states that we will not be able to bring it down for the time being. However, unlike the opposition, I also see positive elements in the European Commission's report. This confirms the positive effects of the tax shift. The tax shift was therefore necessary, useful and important. Reducing labour costs and labour market reform have also had positive effects. The European Commission notes that household consumption is rising, that unemployment is falling in our country and that the labour market is in good shape and has good prospects. Mr Kitir, the European Commission is indeed saying, as we have said before, that the tax shift is not fully funded and that there is still work to be done in budgetary terms. We fully support the socio-economic reforms. We have been asking for the tax shift, which is good for economic competitiveness and for employment. However, we have always said that these socio-economic reforms can only go hand in hand with sound and smart budgetary policies. We are therefore asking for a sense of urgency from the government for budgetary policy and asking for it to follow the path towards a balanced budget. In addition to the socio-economic reforms that we need and which are useful, it is also very important that our budget be put in order to safeguard future generations from additional debt. Minister, how do you evaluate the European Commission's report? What will you and the government do to keep out of the danger of European surveillance of our budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u73	Minister, every day the list is growing, the list of those who criticize your budget. Even Mrs Smaers says today that the tax shift is not funded. That the opposition criticizes your budget, you're going to say that it's normal, that it's our role. As a reminder, we find your budget unfair: it makes the crisis pay for the most fragile. He is not visionary: he does not deal with energy issues, does not prepare tomorrow. Mathematically, the account isn't good, the numbers don't stick. You're going to create deficits that will have to be paid by future generations. Everyone tells you, Minister of Finance! Today, it is the European Commission that says that the tax shift is not funded, which says that your forecasts are far too optimistic. Yesterday, it was the Court of Auditors who considered your measures unsubstantiated. The government's response was as follows: "Oh, the Court of Auditors always says that!" Yesterday, it was the Monitoring Committee that thought your forecasts were too optimistic. Government response: "The Monitoring Committee is wrong." Yesterday was the National Bank. Yesterday, it was the chairman of the Finance Committee, today relayed by Mrs Smaers, who dared to say that the tax shift already was not financed. He was told, "Shut up, Mr. Van Rompuy, otherwise there will be no solution in the ARCO file, or I don't know what else." Everyone tells you, Mr Van Overtveldt, but you believe only yourself, you only believe in the return effects, a little imaginary, of your policies, and tax revenues that do not exist. And the potential consequences, we know them: new linear economies in social security, a lack of measures to imagine the economy of tomorrow, to prepare energy autonomy, an ungovernable Belgium. Is that perhaps your goal? This scenario, we ecologists, do not want it. Minister of Finance, what are your contacts with the Commission? Is Belgium actually threatened by an excessive deficit procedure? Finally, change your course, in the sense of more credibility, more social justice, more vision for the future. If you don't have solutions, we have a lot to offer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the European Commission presented its forecasts for the Member States and therefore for Belgium. The Commission's findings could be summarised as follows: more growth, more jobs, more investment, more purchasing power. That's literally what the report says. You can laugh but you can easily read it there, it's only two pages. These are not slogans, these are the figures, the Commission's data. I would also like to refer to the explanation given yesterday by the Minister for the Budget in a press release. The Commission forecasts growth for the Belgian economy of 1.3% in 2017 and 1.5% in 2018. In 2017, growth will be mainly supported by an increase in household consumption, which will double compared to 2014. I repeat, there is a doubling of the increase in household consumption compared to 2014. Those are bare figures. Despite weak global growth, the Commission is planning to create an additional 138 000 net jobs between now and 2018. Economic growth will strengthen in the coming years thanks to incentives for investment and measures for more jobs, especially in the private sector. The European Commission also explicitly confirms that purchasing power is increasing due to the government's cuts in charges. Investment is growing by 3.3 %, which is very good in the European context, and will continue to do so in the years to come, driven by falling labour costs, rising competitiveness and good financing conditions. Improving the structural deficit is and certainly remains a high priority for the government. We are also seeing positive developments in this regard, in line with the objectives set. The nominal deficit remains under control despite the large additional expenditure in the context of the asylum crisis and the terrorist threat. The European Commission's observations on revenue are taken up by the government by correcting the estimates. In a first phase through the installation of a safety margin and final through an in-depth analysis which will result in an improved methodology. I conclude my speech. You have almost asked the question you have asked so many times, Mrs Kitir. I will reply to that. By the way, I suspect you'll discuss it in your reply. Where did people's money go? You've asked that question several times. I expected you to make them explicit now. Well, the answer is clear: the money is in more growth, more jobs, more investment and more purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u75	Minister, I listened very carefully to your reply. You're doing a selective reading of the report, aren't you? Where did people's money go? You answer that there are more jobs. Of course more jobs have been created in our country, Minister. Growth will also increase automatically. The only disadvantage is that Belgium is the worst pupil in Europe. The worst in all of Europe! And you're proud of that? As far as debt is concerned, you would have a budget in balance, but debt is rising. You broke your promise there too, Minister. I just want to warn you. We have seen this week how people react to politicians who only promise but break their promises. Make sure, Minister, that at the end of the legislature you are not the minister who breaks his promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true, and we are all pleased that growth is increasing, moderate, that purchasing power is increasing and that employment is rising. That was also why a tax shift was implemented. That's what the tax shift was for. However, I am still hungry to answer the question of the response and cooperation with the European Commission, as well as the steps you want to take with the European Commission to see how we can stay out of the danger zone of 3% for 2016. I would also like to ask that we continue to follow the path of reform in this area, including the fiscal reforms needed for job creation. I also ask you to ensure that the budget is kept under control, for the sake of the sustainable restoration of consumer confidence and economic confidence, which can only be achieved if we are effectively committed to a budget in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u77	Minister of Finance, there are climatosceptics, criminals who deny global warming and its consequences. You're a "budgetosceptic." You deny the ineffectiveness of the measures taken by this government. You do not want to recognize that you are taking this country into the wall, to the detriment of future generations, to the detriment of the economy. Yes, the terrorist attacks have had an impact on our economy. Yes, Brexit could have some, too. But stop looking for excuses! Get out of your blindness, please, Minister! Where you take us, it's particularly dangerous. It is possible to do otherwise. Not only is it possible, but it is necessary. I appeal to the whole government. There is a beginning of awareness within the CD&V. Now, the whole government must be aware that this is not working, that it is not fair and that it is not preparing tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u78	Minister, we have heard from the media that Beaulieu International has settled with the BBI. That, of course, is not the end of the matter. There are still possible settlements relating to management companies of the persons concerned. There's also the criminal record that doesn't really make any progress. What we can see with this whole story is that Belgium has a problem with collecting taxes. We haven't collected much money yet. We note, however, that Belgium was convicted in 2007 in this case before the European Court of Human Rights and that the State has already paid EUR 31 000 to Roger and Dominiek De Clerck. You will say that this is the past, Minister, and that you are not responsible for it. That's true, but you're in charge of the tax administration and the BBI today as Minister of Finance. You have to admit, it's actually a sad thing. A large group like Beaulieu has been able to escape the tax system since 1990. For 26 years, Beaulieu has been able to escape the IRS. This has to be heavenly for SMEs, because SMEs often cannot afford to pay for this high-tech tax system and do not have the money for these expensive criminal proceedings and to appoint criminal law specialists to defend their rights. It is therefore not surprising that taxes in Belgium are not considered fair. Those settlements are good, but it is important that transparency is added. It would be good for everyone to know what is going on. To avoid such problems in the future, there is only one solution: to simplify the current tax system and procedures. Do you know the amount of the settlement, Minister? How does the amount of the settlement relate to the total amount due? Do you remember any other possible settlements in this case? More importantly, what are your plans to avoid such files in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u79	Mrs Wouters, as you undoubtedly know, I cannot comment on either myself or my administration, let alone give details of individual tax files. Various provisions in all tax codes clearly prohibit us from doing so. I refer, for example, to Article 377 of the Article 385 of the Criminal Code also lays down the penalties applicable to such an infringement. The content of a tax declaration and of a tax investigation interests only the person concerned and the administration. I suspect that you, as I suspect any other citizen, would not appreciate your tax file being made public. I believe that this applies to all of us. I can only tell you that an agreement has indeed been reached on this dossier, a dossier which, as you yourself have pointed out, has been dragging on for a very long time. The administration considers that it is a balanced agreement which, of course, still has to be ratified by the tax court. Both parties therefore still have to submit agreement conclusions to the court, a procedure which I must respect as a minister for obvious reasons. For the rest, I share your concern about the possible unequal treatment of all taxpayers in court cases. I am trying to do everything I can to avoid such situations and, hence, the reinforcement that we have implemented at the level of the BBI, 100 additional people are going to deal with the files more quickly in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We know those articles. However, if we want to achieve fair taxation, this means that there must also be transparency. Of course, it is lacking when we come to such settlements. You say it yourself, equal treatment is also a necessity before we can talk about fair taxation. In my view, simple taxation is very important in this respect, Minister. You can work on that. Both in personal and corporate taxation, people need to know where they stand. It has to be clear to the people. A fair tax also implies a tax that can be collected. Collecting taxes is just as important. That is why I believe that friendly solutions are bad solutions. However, I admit that sometimes the best solution is a bad one. However, we must try to avoid this in the future. We need to get rid of this complex tax system, Minister. A case like Beaulieu cannot be tolerated anymore, because that would really be a blow to the face of all our Flemish SMEs who do pay taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u81	Madam Minister, nuclear energy, obviously, has become intermittent and more reliable. In Belgium, for the time being, two reactors are shut down and, in France, the situation is even more difficult since 18 of the 58 reactors are currently unavailable and it is expected that an average of 9 reactors will be unavailable during the winter. Minister, ensuring the security of electricity supply in Belgium is your job! And your job, do you? What have you done to ensure this security of supply? For months now, you have had on your table a draft bill from CREG to encourage demand management. For more than a year and a half you have in your hands the regulator's solutions to promote the storage of electricity, but it must surely be well fled under a pile of nuclear-related documents. In addition, the working group, composed of Elia, CREG and DG Energy, has been set up to ensure security of supply, but you do not give feedback on this subject. More specifically, with regard to the strategic reserve, you announced in your June 2015 communiqué "a legal amendment of the legislation as soon as possible". You tell us all this is going to happen and not to be impatient. But, minister, this is not the first, nor the second, nor the third time I have asked you about this. I don't see anything happening. What a waste of time! And with regard to the problem of congestion caused by the use of the network by German electricity which is only passing through our territory, you still state very recently that you have asked the CREG and the DG to look into the matter. But what are you doing? Have you made contact with your German colleague, as requested by the European Commission? Minister, I am asking you today to commit to a specific timing for all these issues to be implemented. Finally, could you tell us what impact the price peaks on Belpex this week will have on the bills of our citizens and businesses? It's a matter of important money. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u82	Madam Minister, at the beginning of the week, you spoke to the people in a rather alarmist tone. All over the press, you said there was a need to fear a shortage of electricity this winter. The causes of instability in the electricity market are known, Madam Minister. These are nuclear power plants that are stationary in France and Belgium for safety reasons. These power plants are not doing well from the point of view of safety. For the last two years, you've been arguing in favour of nuclear power. You keep saying that without nuclear power, it would be chaos in the electricity market. For the past two years, you have told us that nuclear energy is the guarantee of prices that benefit SMEs and consumers. Today, masks fall. Nuclear power does not guarantee security of supply in our market; it was you who said it in the press earlier this week. The prices are flying away, Madam Minister, and nuclear power does not guarantee anything. When will you understand, minister, once and for all that nuclear is part of the problem and not part of the solution? When will you lead a policy that will get us out of our dependence on aging power plants? All the surrounding countries are bringing you to trial right now, so we can turn off nuclear reactors. When are you finally going to pursue a policy that benefits consumers and SMEs and not, as usual with you, the nuclear producers in this country? We will have time to talk about the royalties that you are reducing considerably.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u83	I will mention a number of things about the situation this early week. Nuclear power plants are stopped for safety reasons in France, until 31 January 2017. Two power plants are stopped in our country, one of which, Doel 3, is in programmed shutdown, and the other, Tihange 1, is in unannounced shutdown, but there has also been little wind. Wind production is 10% lower than usual. The photovoltaic panels obviously do not produce anything in rush hours, since between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. there is no sun. Moreover, the functioning of the market and the congestion created at the northern border (loopflows or closure flows) mean that, during peak hours, the price of electricity per hour is much more favourable than for the Franco-Belgian bloc. I have therefore contacted my German counterpart through diplomatic channels to discuss this issue of network and market operation. Clearly, there are rules on the functioning of the market which are not respected. I have also taken the necessary steps with France to send a request together to our German counterpart. And I will soon have contact with Holland in the same direction. As far as the technical plan is concerned, the TSO and CREG, together with their Franco-Holland and German counterparts, will work to improve these closure flows. I come to a point on which we are not going to agree, Mr de Lamotte. Indeed, I looked at the daily production on Monday and Tuesday as well as the price of electricity on the markets during this period. At that time, we lacked 20 to 30% electricity, which was then exchanged on a stock exchange. I found that in France, there were more than 800 euros per megawatt per hour and in Belgium, more than 600 euros per magawatt per hour. The gap which I should have found within the interconnections, but which I could not find, in particular, because of this market malfunction and the flow of closures could only be found in the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Indeed, in terms of megawatts, the gap was almost equivalent to the production of these two plants. That is why, unlike you, we are pleased to have been able to extend these plants, because their extension allows us to have a minimum of energy independence. Indeed, as we keep saying in committee, it is not because we have physical interconnections which should allow us, in the best case, to obtain electricity import at the level of 4,500 megawatts that the countries where this electricity is produced will send us the necessary electricity, since there are diversions because of the algorithms which have been studied in the new system and which obviously favour some countries to the detriment of others, in particular ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u84	Madam Minister, you will not do it to me! You have not denied the lack of impact on the citizens' and businesses' bills in view of your lack of ambition with regard to supply and security of supply. You do not give any response to your schedule in terms of storage, management and working group. Even in your press releases. You're announcing it's imminent, but nothing happens. It's disgusting!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u85	Minister, you have been in office for two years and you are telling us the same thing. What you have managed to do is blow up electricity prices, notably by increasing VAT from 6 to 21%. A series of newspaper articles show how much electricity is more expensive in Belgium than elsewhere; because of you, because you don't know how to manage it. Mr President, who has the floor? It's tiring!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u86	Let Mrs. Lalieux speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u87	Thank you, Mr. President! It is difficult for the minister to hear the criticism, because she is wasting her time with her nuclear ideology at all. And it is mainly wasting ours, because today there is no energy transition, no energy pact and nothing is announced. So, minister, change your ideology and try to work for SMEs and consumers rather than for nuclear producers who make a lot of money from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u88	Mr President, Minister, how many times have I told you in this rostrum: the rule of law and European values are not being negotiated. Meanwhile, as we talk about it, a member of the Council of Europe, NATO, a candidate for the European Union is pursuing a policy of unbridled repression. I am of course thinking of Turkey. Mass arrests of government officials, opposition journalists, political leaders, novelists, intellectuals, gay pride and repressed opposition demonstrations, the desire to restore the death penalty as soon as possible. Where will this end? Where will this diet stop? It is not enough to be elected to do what we want! We have strongly condemned the military coup, but this time there seems to be a political coup and our country is silent for the moment. What more do you need? Diplomatic means of pressure can exist while maintaining the necessary dialogue with a friendly country, with which we have long maintained excellent relations. To remain friends, countries that want to join the European Union must maintain the same values. The European Commission seems to be finally coming out of its torpor. In a report published on Wednesday, she denounces a serious reversal of the criteria for membership, particularly on freedom of expression. The European Parliament's rapporteur for Turkey called on the European Union to freeze the accession negotiations immediately, until the Turkish Government regained its path of respect for the rule of law. Mr Minister, in the face of these massive arrests, this musellement of the opposition and the press, and the desire to restore the death penalty, what official position will Belgian diplomacy adopt? Do you intend to take initiatives, particularly at the level of the Council of Europe, as has been done in relation to Russia, in order to challenge the policy pursued by the Turkish authorities? What is the position at European level? Does this call into question the agreements that bind us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u89	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey is going from evil to worse. We can take the last ten days as an example. On 1 November 2016, it became clear that a majority in the Turkish Parliament began to sign off on the reintroduction of the death penalty. In May 2016, after you heard well the parliamentary immunity of the European Parliament, my fellow Members, 139 Members of Parliament were lifted, which was described as illegal by the Interparliamentary Union and by the Venice Commission on the basis of the illegally waived immunity, twelve Members were not put in prison for the least part of the largest opposition party. Then there's the freedom of the press. 170 newspapers, radio stations, television stations and news agencies have been closed. There are 150 journalists and writers in prison and 2 200 journalists have lost their press card. As if that were not enough, there is Cumhuriyet, Turkey's oldest secular newspaper. Today, the Turks commemorate the death of Kemal Atatürk. He turns around in his grave because of the last secular newspaper, which cannot have any connection with the Gülen movement, the editor-in-chief, the director and eight employees have also gone to prison. Yesterday, the European Commission presented its progress report. The diagnosis is sharp. She's having a serious relapse. Unfortunately, that's the end of it. Minister, our questions to you are as follows. First of all, when is it too much for this government? When will it finally send a clear signal to Turkey? Secondly, I have read that next weekend the European leaders will sit together. I am counting on you to put Turkey's dossier on the table on that occasion. Our group would like to ask you the following. Do you wish to defend the suspension of the accession negotiations during that meeting? I would like to know the government's position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u90	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we live far from an ideal world. We know that there are quite a number of regimes around the world where our values and standards of democracy and human rights are unfortunately ignored. We can only hope that progress will be made over the years. The name Atatürk just fell. He made Turkey a secular state at the beginning of the last century. There was a lot to note about his regime as such, let us not lose sight of that, but a secular and democratic state in accordance with the principles that we also adhere to. We see this, which is a peculiarity for Turkey, an undeniable decline in recent years, contrary to what we always hope history will have in store in this respect. The examples given are shocking in terms of freedom of the press. I would also like to point out that a great many academics, professors and teachers, are being taken out of office by thousands. There has been talk of freedom of the press. The recent example, as well as previous examples, shows that Turkey is deteriorating at a rapid pace when it comes to the ideals of democracy and human rights. Turkey is a special country, as a member of NATO, as a potential future member of the European Union, at least that is the official ambition. For this reason, I think we should also tighten up the criteria and assessments. We have, however, made an important deal with Turkey, which should lead to better management of the flow of refugees that caused problems last summer. Mr Minister, Austria has put the light on orange or even red for that deal this week. Both the Austrian Christian Democratic Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Socialist Minister for Defence have said that Turkey is on the verge or even beyond the red line. They have added that the Turkey deal may become impossible in the foreseeable future. Against this background, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether you are providing for difficulties in this area. I hope that with our government we will not close our eyes to this potential. What preparations do you make in case the deal with Turkey fails? The consequences would be serious. It is better to anticipate this than to wait for it to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u91	Minister, this week it became known that Turkish cartoonist Musa Kart is in prison. He sits there waiting for a process about cartoons, which is part of a series of events. Turkey has arrested or suspended more than 110 000 teachers, judges and officials. 37 000 people were fired, 170 media channels were closed and 138 MEPs lost their immunity. However, Europe still provides EUR 1.6 billion per year to support Turkey in order to strengthen democracy. In reality, ladies and gentlemen, the opposite is actually happening. In addition, there is an additional €450 million per year for the development of education and the promotion of gender equality, for example. In these areas, too, we see a decline rather than progress. In the meantime, the Commission's report has been published. There have been serious objections, but the report does not mention any conclusions or actions that could be taken. According to Erdogan, everything Europe says about this goes into one ear and out the other. As long as the situation continues to go downhill, the EU must take action and take control. I am thinking here of the financial flow of pre-accession aid to Turkey, which needs to be frozen. The accession talks with Turkey must also be frozen if there is really no progress on human rights and fundamental freedoms. Minister, what is the Belgian Government's position on the freezing of the accession negotiations with Turkey? How does the Belgian Government view the freezing of pre-accession aid to Turkey, which is clearly not delivering the desired results today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I have already said that the story with Turkey has been going on for a long time and has been going on for several years. New developments have been taking place since July. As you know, as soon as the coup attempt took place, we condemned it. I believe it is normal for European states – and we have all done so together, but Belgium has been among the first – to condemn any attempt to seize power by force, by military forces. At the same time, however, we immediately called for a proportionate response from the Turkish authorities. It goes without saying that people are being prosecuted and convicted for this attempted coup d'état. That repression is far beyond the scope of a proportionate response is unacceptable, and we have said so on many occasions. I have had the opportunity to tell my Turkish counterparts at bilateral or EU-wide meetings. It was clear: there is no reason to be repressive against journalists, against members of a political party such as the HDP, against many other people. We have helped many of the current opponents of the Turkish authorities. I am not giving more details, but there are people living in Belgium now thanks to the help of the Belgian authorities on visas and possible asylum. It's normal for us to do that. What did we do? In the last week, the situation was even worse, with a lot of arrests. There was a meeting of all ambassadors in Turkey at the request of Federica Mogherini. Belgium was present. In addition, there is a question from the Council of Europe through the Secretary-General to start an investigation into the situation in Turkey. On 4 November, at my request, our Consul General in Istanbul visited the headquarters of the newspaper Cumhuriyet in order to show our solidarity with the freedom of the press after the arrests. The same approach was taken in Ankara. I would also like to say that on 8 November our Ambassador attended a meeting of the HDP parliamentary group to discuss the situation of the nine Members who were arrested under the current repression. What are we gonna do? A new meeting of the European Council of Ministers for External Relations will take place on 14 November. For us it is very clear and clear. There are three different things. First of all, this is the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on migration, which therefore contains commitments made on both sides. I would not like to recall what is behind the European approach: everyone remembers the image of this little Aylan on the beach of Bodrum. At that time, everyone wanted to put an end to the scandal of the deaths following the crossings between Turkey and Greece. Since the agreement with Turkey, that is the case: we no longer know of such situations. We respect our commitments, as Turkey respects its own. On this point, I would like to confirm to you that €2.239 billion has been invested to date by the European Union in projects for refugees. As part of its compulsory contribution, Belgium contributed EUR 17.5 million. Secondly, there is visa liberalisation. Without Turkey's full implementation of all the conditions, I have always said this in the various meetings at European level, it is impossible for us to go further. I will repeat that next week. Without an amendment to the law on the definition of terrorism, it is impossible for us to abolish the visa requirement for Turkey. That is very clear. Thirdly, we have not been negotiating for years, but for decades, about possible accession to the EU. Discussions are currently under way on several chapters. For months, I've been underlining that there are red lines. A red line is the violation of human rights. There are now numerous arrests and actions against the opponents. Furthermore, the introduction of the death penalty is a definitive red line. If there is a real debate in the Turkish Parliament on the introduction of the death penalty, we must stop the negotiations. Then there's no point in continuing it. Very concretely, we will continue to follow the path set out. Firstly, there is the correct application of our commitment to migration, which is normal. Secondly, the visa requirement will not be abolished if a number of laws in Turkey are not amended. Thirdly, there will also not be a new negotiation on possible accession in view of developments in the field of human rights and, more importantly, the death penalty. We have to keep the same line at all times, because I hear so many people in Parliament, in the press, in public opinion, saying, "Why have we reached an agreement like this on migration with Turkey?" But when images of dead children are shown to us, in the crossing or attempted crossing between Turkey and Greece, we are asked: "Why don't you stop that?" It's stopped for now! Personally, I hope that we can continue to implement the agreement with Turkey on migration. Of course, there is no question of us continuing, in any way, to evolve in terms of visa liberalisation or accession to the European Union, as long as the situation in Turkey is not reversed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u93	Mr Minister, democracy is not a "majoritocracy", to which we are subjected in a distracted manner. On that, we all agree. Each of the speakers referred to this. In a rule of law, a member of the Council of Europe, it is up to the justice system to apply the law, not to a liberticide government, which clearly violates the values of the Union, to which it so much wishes to adhere. Turkey is a country with which we have important links, and you mentioned it, particularly in the area of migration. On both sides, the contracts are respected. But as far as human rights are concerned, of course, Belgian diplomacy is starting to activate, but we are on the edge of the red line. You have also expressed this idea. The government must clearly move to a higher speed to stop its unacceptable human rights abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u94	Mr. Secretary, we have a lot of work to do. The time for strong statements, as you did a moment ago, is over. We note that since the coup in mid-July things have been going from bad to worse. All the strong statements made by European Heads of Government have had no effect on the Turkish Government, otherwise it would not have taken the three measures I have listed since 1 November. It only understands plain and clear language. We ask you, Minister, to stop hypocrisy and suspend the accession negotiations on Sunday at the meeting where the European leaders are meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, 139 Members of Parliament are being deprived of their immunity! Of the third largest party, the opposition party HDP with 59 members, immunity is reduced according to one set of figures of 51 and according to the other set of figures of 55 MEPs. Of the 139 members of parliament affected, 90% of the opposition. I'm making a call today, fellow Members. I'll take the initiative next week. I'll send you a letter. I will ask you all to sign that letter with me. Let's be clear, I'll try to be selective. We just want to give our support to parliamentarians who opt for non-violent opposition to the government. We do not want to support those who have blood on their hands, those who have ties with the PKK. But all these other Members of Parliament, who do what is necessary in a parliamentary democracy, deserve our support. I therefore hope that a maximum number of fellow Members will support the initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My reply has three points. Firstly, the EU has so far reacted several times and made it clear that it regrets developments. Unfortunately, that has not yet made much impression on Turkey. I believe that we should consider increasing the pressure on Turkey effectively and that we should at least take effective account of it in our relations with that country. That is why we will support the motion for a resolution in this direction. It will be discussed here next week. Secondly, as far as the deal with Turkey is concerned, it has to be assessed on the basis of the results. These results are unmistakable, but I can count on the government not to wait unemployed until suddenly, on a certain day, the deal would no longer be sustainable. I urge you to take the government into account at this stage the possibility that the deal will not prove to be sustainable, given the developments. Europe must also take the necessary measures to protect its own borders, without having to resort to cooperation with someone like Erdogan. Finally, we are in a Parliament here. Our fellow Members cannot exercise their parliamentary rights today. I believe that an explicit expression of solidarity on our part is more than appropriate. I would particularly like to pay tribute to the people of the pro-Kurdish HDP party, who want to organise Turkey in an inclusive way and are punished for this in an absolutely unacceptable way today. It is appropriate that we as a Parliament strongly oppose this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Six months ago, my group leader in the hemisphere called for our European values, our democracy and our human rights not to go to Istanbul's grand bazar. We stand by that view. We Liberals support democratic values and human rights. We will never abandon that. I am pleased to hear that you have drawn two red lines: human rights and the death penalty. For us today, the reality is that both are being violated. I hope you will go to the European summit with a number of messages. Those two messages are very simple for us: stop the accession negotiations with Turkey until everything is right in the area of human rights and freeze the EUR 1.6 billion in aid until everything is right. Stop subsidising Erdogan's authoritarian ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u97	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the election of Mr Trump as President of the United States can only challenge Europeans. Of course, we are respectful of the results of an eminently democratic election, as in all states that have a tradition of universal suffrage – even though some archaic aspects of the electoral regime specific to the American presidential system may be questioned. This tradition is, in any case, so firmly rooted that we do not have to judge it. More fundamentally, Mr Trump's remarks during this campaign, sometimes also his inconsistencies and contradictory statements which have shown a lack of consistency on certain subjects, as well as his very short vision of the role of the United States in world affairs, suggest that the relationship with Europe, if not the privileged one, should be called into question, in any case, that Europe is a full and equal partner of the United States. I know that it is not always easy for them to accept this balanced partnership, but we now have the feeling that the President-elect would have to question it. Is it worth recalling that he called Brussels a "rat hole" following the circumstances we have experienced, that he called the European migration situation a "bazaar" and so on? We could continue the collection of her rather flowery words, that's the least we can say. The first concern is not to question all the United States, it would be derisory, but – and I heard your analysis this morning, which I share to a large extent, on RTBF – to know how Europe is coming together. How, after the many debates that have stirred her up, will she regain a common political force? First of all, it is important that we be firmer towards the leaders who, in some European states, would be tempted to follow Mr Trump's path. And he will unfortunately find himself. It is perhaps time, first of all – and I believe you will attend a meeting of European Heads of State and Government on Sunday – to make it clear to some Member States that Mr Trump's voice is not that of Europe. And the second question that will arise is how Europe can reform itself. Indeed, the worst thing would be to put our weaknesses on Mr Trump's vision of Europe and not to take on our choices in order to correct them. It is time to reflect on a profound reorganization of the European Union. The twenty-eight Europe as it is organised cannot be maintained unless a European heart, a closer union that will bring together only a few states, emerges again. You took the lead at a meeting in Rome. I would like you to be able to deepen it in the coming months and explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u98	Mr President, Minister, I would like to address this question to the Prime Minister, but I understand that he is ill. The government reacted to the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States, but in a hypocritical way, as politically correct Europeans do. We congratulated the elected President of the United States on terms and conditions. Under our terms. Provided he does this and that and sister and so on, in fact, provided he does what we think he should do. Hypocrite, because that is not what we do. What is certainly not being done, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is to go to New York one and a half months before the elections as Prime Minister of this country to find trading partners for our country and to insult the candidate, whom, of course, he was not expected to be elected, to mock, and to make fun of. That's where it happened. Today, we find that quite a few political leaders in this country, the Walloon Prime Minister; the Prime Minister barely a month ago; other politicians; the port ships of Antwerp, Mr Van Peel, but I shall come back to that later, openly insulting the elected President of the world's largest democratic country and stabbing him in the back. In this way, Minister for Foreign Affairs, we will achieve the opposite. It will cost our country, the port of Antwerp and our economy, jobs, contracts and more if we continue to respond in this way to the elected President of the United States. I call on this government and the Prime Minister who is ill to apologize for the insults made to Trump in connection with the trade mission in New York. Then I call on you to stop supporting the Clinton Foundation. In the past year, Belgium has given taxpayers' money to the Clinton Foundation to finance all kinds of projects. Please respond and apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u99	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a few months ago our Parliament took note of the Brexit. Yesterday, we read about the results of the elections in the United States. In both cases, the staffs of our country's political parties and media have accused the blow. They could not imagine such a outcome. And yet. I hear that everything must be done to counter the rise of populism. From this reflection, I think you are not yet ready to learn from these profound political changes. In both cases, it was citizens who spoke freely. That's actually what you keep yelling, but you don't respect. This is democracy. Citizens are tired of the austerity policy which only worsens the economic situation. They are tired of being imposed on your vision of society, this politically correct vision of multiculturalism. In the media, we only talk about problems related to Islam. They feel that governments are now defending only minorities, to the detriment of their legitimate rights. Is populism defending the rights of nationals or having a purely electoralist perspective by wanting to seem sympathetic to a certain section of the population? The majority of Europeans no longer want this union of states which does not work, which leaves the door open, to such an extent that our culture, our civilization, are attacked at the front. They do not want to be imposed on them another way of life than the one in which they were born. Deputy Prime Minister, you are facing a very important issue from a European point of view. We know that the new President of the United States will settle conflicts with Russia. Knowing that Europe will be between these two major powers and that it may be out of the question, what strategic position do you intend to adopt, at European level in general and at Belgian level in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u100	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a democrat must respect an election result, even if it is not to his liking. In fact, democrats around the world must ask themselves what is going on if such a dangerous man can convince a majority of Americans. An important part of the explanation is that the American Dream is more and more a nightmare for many people in the United States. The United States is a country where one in six people live in poverty today, where 45 million Americans have to use food stamps to survive and where the gap between rich and poor is growing. That's also the seeds of a Trump's success. A man who unfortunately doesn't give a shit about the ordinary people and the people who are having a hard time. People who do deserve a voice, in America, but today also in this country and in Europe. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that man is dangerous. He is a climate denier and an xenophobic populist, a man who has offended almost everyone in recent months: almost all minorities, women, our compatriots, even the victims of the attacks of 22 March. Yes, we must accept the Americans' choice. But no, we should not accept the figure, the language and the words of a Trump. I find the initial reactions of our members of the government far too faint and too lukewarm. I've heard a meaningless announcement from our Prime Minister. Mr De Crem said today, a few hours after the elections, a few hours after Mr Trump's offensive campaign, that Mr Trump should be our partner. Anyone who behaves like that can't just be our partner. With such a person we enter into the conversation, we say that the climate is important to us, that social justice is important to us, that human rights are important to us, that respect each other is important to us. The election of Trump places us with a very great responsibility, to be a moral compass in the world, to be a guide, to give a voice to all those people who are today anxious and insecure. I come to my question to you, to this government, to European leaders. And I'm only asking for one case. On Sunday, you will sit with the European leaders. Well, of course, our trade interests are important, but also the climate is important, human rights and respect for minorities are important. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to discuss this on Sunday. That is also the role of our country and of Europe after what happened this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u101	Mr President, ministers, it is with great fear that we have learned of the election of Mr Trump, a dangerous man who will do a great deal of harm to all the social achievements of these workers in the United States. But I think that today's debate is about the balance sheet. How is it possible for a man like Trump to win the U.S. election? How is it possible to have such a threat in France with a Le Pen? [[Laughs]] Your laughter really shows you don't understand. You don't understand! You live in your cocoon. You're unable to understand. People are angry. People are sick of it. People are victims of all these multinational agreements that you, the right-wing politicians, sign. What is happening in Michigan, in the center of America, in Charleroi, in Liège, you, the traditional politicians, don't hear anything! You, the right, don't care because you're in your world. You don't understand what's going on, nothing at all! Today, this anger, if it was channeled by someone like Trump, it's because of your candidate, Mrs. Clinton. Supposedly, Mrs. Clinton, was going to beat Trump. Clinton, who represents the establishment, who is there with his millions and is part of the American elite. That is indeed a problem. If we don't want Trumps to win today in the world, now is the time to think. Traditional policies must dare to challenge each other. You must dare say that these chords... These are the questions I asked. We don't like to hear the truth. Close your eyes and close your ears for the years to come! It is now time to protect workers. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u102	I, the same languages, do not allow that! I don't divide like a Trump! I don't dare. I don't dare! I'm not for protectionism. You don't dare! It must be made clear today that this problem...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u103	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u104	Yes, Mrs. Onkelinx, I know it hurts but listen... Even the traditional left doesn't like it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u106	M. Hedebouw a la parole!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u107	That's it, did you hear? Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, you said that the answer to Trump's election was more Europe. I say to you that this Europe of the elite, which is now above the social gains of the people and which detracts from all our economies, is not the solution. You also said this morning that one of the solutions was to strengthen the European pillar over time by increasing military spending. So, the answer to Trump's madness is that we're going to put more money in NATO led by the same madman! Minister, you must make it clear to the United States that we cannot go on like this. You need to change domestic policy here in terms of job protection because, if we continue this way, there will be more and more Trump and it is time to build alternatives to Trump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u108	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in any case I observe that the debate here is as peaceful as the debate in the United States. The outcome of these elections is extremely clear. These elections are crucial for Belgium and Europe. Indeed, we share a great deal with the United States in terms of values, economics and security. The choice of Americans is sovereign. It must be respected; I am convinced, and I think you too. This kind of choice must be respected in our country too, in elections, as in any other democratic state. As a member of the OSCE observation mission for these elections, I come back from the United States. Where we were, we didn't encounter any incidents, no challenges to the results, and that seems to be consistent across the U.S. national territory. The results were confirmed by the candidate who lost those elections. I hear, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, very specific comments and judgments on the choice of the American people. However, I think it is necessary to be careful not to disregard a democratic vote. Indeed, on 20 January, you and we will have to work with the new US majority to pursue various partnerships, including trade, in defence and the fight against terrorism. Therefore, Deputy Prime Minister, these are my questions. What steps are you going to take to better identify the policy line of the new US administration? In terms of the major international issues – I am referring here to the war against Daesh, of course, but also to the nuclear agreement with Iran, the implementation of the Paris Agreement, trade negotiations or the Middle East peace process – do you think that the European Union can be sufficiently united and persuasive to follow an autonomous and credible political line, in a redefined partnership with the United States, and with indispensable mutual respect? Finally, you will attend a meeting on Sunday evening with your counterparts in the European Union's foreign affairs. What will be Belgium's message to its European partners on this occasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u109	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make it clear on behalf of my group that we regret that the glass ceiling was not broken. That is a disappointment; I understand that disappointment. I would add immediately that the content in a campaign always prevails. Let me also say on behalf of my group that we have actually missed the substantive campaign in the United States on both sides. Democracy is a verb. For the future, therefore, I would like to make it clear that we will have to focus on the content again during each campaign. In France, for example, the fact that Marine Le Pen is a woman doesn't make her mind any less rancid. We must fight this, but with substantive counter-arguments. The voter is always right, even though we may think he is wrong. That is the alpha and the omega of a democratic system. A democratic system of the worst form of state, Churchill said, with the exception of all the others, he added immediately. Rather than squandering and blotting away what others want, we would better defend with strength and conviction what we want. Maybe first and foremost in Europe itself. In defence, for example, we often abhor American rhetoric, but so far we have not been able to define a European defence policy with which we would also be a credible partner in NATO. We are always angry at the Americans: if they intervene somewhere we are angry, if they do not intervene we are angry and sometimes we are angry because we think they are intervening too late. Think of the asylum and migration chapter. The results of Europe are not to write about home. What happened to the dispersal plan? Here and there I also read concerns about the future of free trade. We wonder whether the Americans are prepared to conclude another free trade agreement with us. Colleagues, are we really convinced that we need to conclude free trade agreements? No longer than a week ago there was doubt about the free trade agreement with Canada. If American politics were to become more self-reliant in the near future, which is perhaps worrying in itself, then the European Union would be facing the pressing challenge of moving a few more gears in crucial issues, which are really awakening people, such as migration, asylum, globalisation and free trade. Mr Calvo, if this American dream has perhaps been chewed up for some people, perhaps we can rekindle the European dream with united forces. Every downside has its advantage. It is with that mission that we would like to see you go to the next meeting of the Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u110	Mr President, first of all let me leave aside the cartoons that I have just heard on both the far left and the far right. This does not in any way advance the debate. I would like to thank the other speakers who have asked substantive questions about what the election in the United States means, not only for us, but also for Europe, in a more concrete way. First of all, I have already said that we must respect the outcome of the democratic process. That's normal. It is a democratic election in a very large democratic country. We must respect that result. That is why the Prime Minister has sent congratulations to the new President of the United States. You have seen that the other candidate, Mrs Clinton, and the current President of the United States, Mr Obama, had the same reaction. So it makes sense to do that. Secondly, we must wait a bit for the first decision of the administration of the new President. It always is. I heard the first speech of the new elected president. It asked for an association and many positive messages were given, but we will remain very cautious until the first real proposals. The same applies to NATO and the EU. I have heard your questions in that connection. As far as NATO is concerned, that was already the case with Barack Obama. At the Chicago Summit, Barack Obama said that Europe should do more for its own defence. We must therefore do more in NATO and not always wait for a response from the United States. The EU is also awaiting proposals from the United States. I would like to add that, although we have already had the opportunity to react on behalf of the Belgian Government, on Sunday I will meet with all my European counterparts to see how to schedule the future. It is obvious that this will take a little time. It will take a number of months for the U.S. administration to get in place. Do not expect profound changes by the beginning of next year. But we will see how to get in touch as quickly as possible with the people who will make the transition and who will then take on responsibilities. I can already tell you that we have reacted very harshly to the words of candidate Donald Trump concerning Brussels. I hope that we will have the opportunity next year, when it comes – it is scheduled – to visit us to attend a NATO summit, on the occasion of the opening of the new headquarters, to show him, who said during his campaign that he had not come to Brussels for twenty years, what our capital is today and to prove to him that he was wrong in his analysis. My final point relates to Europe. Different choices are now possible. I have heard the first choice in a few speeches. It is possible to go in the same direction as Mr Trump, with a populist approach, with a racist approach and with a protectionist approach. It's possible. It is also possible to fight against the establishment and against Washington. Here in Europe, it is always a fight against Brussels. I have always told all colleagues that, unfortunately, I can't keep saying that if things go well, it is through a national decision and that if things go wrong, it is the fault of Brussels! At home, everything is decided in Brussels, in the same street! How do you want me to make this opposition? I will be very clear, it is not only extremist parties that harm the European cause; it is often government representatives who sit on the European table who keep taking the European Union as a scapegoat instead of working on its project. In this context, we have the choice: to allow populism to develop, to allow the next elections in France, the Netherlands, Germany and at home to develop, the same currents as those we have just known in the United States or to choose another approach, difficult, but which concerns two elements that I will develop on Sunday with my colleagues. The first is that we must respond in concrete terms – and perhaps we do not agree on solutions – to concrete problems that arise in our societies. One can think and dream about the ideal Europe in twenty years, but the question now is how to respond to the problems of economic crisis and job creation and what measures to take at 28, tomorrow at 27, perhaps at 19, in the euro area, perhaps even with fewer partners. Mr Maingain, it is true that I have already participated in three meetings of the founding countries to see how to relaunch the process. It may now be necessary to consider social measures, fiscal measures. However, this cannot be done now with 28 Members, which is impossible. It may not even work with 19 members, but a smaller number of members of the European Union must be employed. Same reaction for migration. There are many countries, for example in eastern Europe, which do not want migrants, not a single migrant, not even a single real refugee. And so it is impossible to find a solution to the problem of migration with all European countries, but with a smaller group of countries. For security, the same reasoning, is it possible to give a concrete answer to the security problem with a smaller number of countries? The second issue is strengthening the European Union. The problem is not the European Union, the solution is the European Union. But I'll be very clear. It is not a question of having a Europe that would be the solution for all problems. It is a matter of agreeing on which topics we need a stronger Europe. Who believes that we are going to fight climate change at home? We need a clear voice from Europe on the international stage in order to act in this area. Who believes that we can solve a number of economic and social problems without working with European partners? But who can believe that Europe will play a role? I am being questioned every week, in Syria, just now in Turkey; I will be told about Iraq, Central Africa... Who can believe that we can play a real role in all these situations of tension simply through diplomatic or political channels? If Europe does not also become a real military power – and what it spends today gives it the means – it will not play a role. In recent weeks, even with President Obama, we have seen in Syria, for example, exclusively meetings between Washington and Moscow, without Europe. When we see what is happening in the United States today, we need a stronger Europe. A stronger European Union is a European Union with a real capacity to cooperate in defence and security matters. It is not just a European defence, it may be a dream today. As far as I am concerned, it is more of a European pillar within NATO. This means cooperation like that of our country with the Netherlands for the Navy and with other countries for other activities. It is a cooperation with all European countries. To do that, we also need an industry in the defence field, such as for other sectors. It was possible for us to have a European civil aviation champion, Airbus, who is competing with Boeing, and perhaps tomorrow with a Chinese company. In the military industry, we do not have this integration, we need it. In conclusion, a number of fears arose, depending on what was heard in the United States. We are now awaiting the actions of the new administration. Of course, I still have much more fears about what can happen in Europe, when I see the trends, in several countries – I will not mention them again – on the populist, protectionist, racist, self-absorbing level. We need to open up to neighbouring countries, open up to the whole of the Union and open up to the whole world with a strong voice. That is why I will indeed plead on Sunday for the European Union to try to solve concrete problems by means of concrete solutions. But I will also argue for it to dare, and it is often counter-current in the opinion of many citizens, to reaffirm the need to work more together, and more strongly, in a number of fundamental policies, which I recognize are those of socio-economic development, climate change, but also security and defence. Otherwise, we will have no place in foreign policy. If we want Europe's voice to be heard, we must dare to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u111	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, your remarks are significant and we agree with them. You said that you would not take into account the interventions of those who, on the far left or on the far right, finally hold almost identical speeches. We must have the courage to tell Mr Hedebouw that, when he makes a speech in which he attacks the elites, that is to say, those who assume their responsibility according to the democratic institutions that are ours, he is holding Mr Trump's speech in the United States. It was exactly the same thing and the same ambition! I say it because those who have the temptation to believe that you are a democratic party have probably not yet understood that you like the worst to better go towards your hegemonic project. It's the real motivation that drives you! Mr Deputy Prime Minister, you have outlined what a new European breath should be. The truth is that it has been a long time since the United States no longer considered Europe as the focal point of its foreign policy, for many reasons and which can be understood in relation to its situation and geopolitical issues. But there is no other way for Europe to rely on its own forces. You say you have the ambition. We will be at your side, as soon as precise, rapid and shared initiatives are implemented by all European governments – or those that are still driven by Europe's great ambition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u112	Mr President, Minister:times are changing. Today we have heard again the classic discourse of those who come to us with the moralistic finger that we are the moral compass of the world. We Europeans, Belgians, are the moral conscience of the world, and we now explain to everyone how they should behave, how they should do politics and what the values and standards they should put into practice are. We are now explaining this to Putin, Assad, Orbán in Hungary, and already to the largest democratic country in the world, the United States of America. Meanwhile, we are in this Half-Round, at least most of us, anti-Putin and anti-Orbán, and you are now anti-Trump and anti some other leaders in this world. Ladies and gentlemen, realize that times are changing. Soon you will be the marginals, you will be in the minority and the others will be in charge, as is the case today in the United States of America, in Russia and in Hungary, and as will be the case tomorrow in Austria, when Hofer becomes the President of the FPÖ, as will be the case in the Netherlands, when Wilders wins and as will be the case in France, when Marine Le Pen wins. Then what will you do? Democracy suits you well when you are the winners, when you win the elections. Otherwise, those who win the elections together with their voters are all dictators, fascists and racists. It's easy that way. Once Winston Churchill said that today's fascists will present themselves tomorrow as the antifascists. That is what is happening today, Mr Dewael. Respect democracy in America, Russia and Hungary and respect their leaders. Trump's right about that. Drain the swamp. The swamp , you are, those are the traditional parties that have taken the floor here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u113	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, will you listen and defend the interests of our fellow citizens, ensuring that they find some safety on the street and some job security? Indeed, it is by virtue of considering as a caricature the voice of the voiceless reported in this Chamber that the traditional parties will be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u114	Thank you for your reply, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. If you want more European cooperation, you will find an ally in the ecologists, in this country and elsewhere in Europe. However, it must not be just more Europe, it must also be another Europe. It must not just be about a Europe of market and currency, it must also be about a Europe of people and the environment. That is a real European dream, Mr Dewael. Such a European dream is a real dam against nationalism and populism. Such a European dream gives people hope and perspective. Let us say what we stand for. Let us be assertive and offensive in that. Hence my appeal, Mr Vice Prime Minister, to say this from today on, including to the new American President. Even after his sympathetic speech, that remains a dangerous man. After that speech, too, we must dare to name things and enter into the conversation as assertively as possible. I would also like to invite you, Mr Vice-President, to dare, by a very large majority, to sweep these values into practice here in our country, too, and to work on a Belgian dream, to build a dam here against nationalism and populism, to make an operation of justice here too. As far as our values, our democracy and our rule of law are concerned, Mr Dewael, last week we saw a Secretary of State making a mockery of our democracy and our rule of law. Let us agree on this: that is not innocent, because those who sow inequality will reap nationalism and populism, left and right. Anyone who sows division, as groups in this House do, will reap hatred and fear. I therefore hope, democratically speaking, that the American elections will also be a wake-up call in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u115	Minister, there are apparently very few lessons to be learned as to why a Trump has won in the United States. There is actually very little self-criticism about what the problem is in the political world in America and Europe. It's gonna be a taboo when it comes to elite. What do you think the effect would be if someone like Barroso simply switched from the Commission to Goldman Sachs? What do you think the effect of that is? What do you think the effect would be if Neelie Kroes just started working for 55 multinationals when she had a mandate for Europe? What is the problem if a certain Karel De Gucht receives EUR 125 000 a year and EUR 144 000 from ArcelorMittal, together with more than EUR 250 000 a year? You don't think this is a problem. You think people don't think this is a problem and just let this pass. Well, no, that's the problem! There is an effective problem between the world of politicians and those who decide, and the people. That's a real problem! I thought today's debate would be about how we would think about the problem together here in Europe because we want to avoid a Trump here. No, not at all. Today it is said that more investment is needed in NATO and in Europe. I agree with Kristof Calvo. It is the competition in Europe and the poverty you are sowing that is the problem and feed racism. I cannot accept the parallelism between this extreme right that divides people and an authentic left like Bernie Sanders who could have led the fight against this right, which could have beaten Trump. I hear today that we supported Clinton for years, that we felt she was going to make a difference. With the Clintons who are also present in Europe, we will not defeat this extreme right and that is why we must find a real left, with the people on the ground, who live like the people on the ground and who will push this right back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u116	Mr. President, we are very far from the United States with this kind of speech. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers, which are very clear. We need clarity when we see that so many observers and experts have made such mistakes in the outcome of these elections, as well as in the outcome of Brexit. There's a wait. There is also anxiety in the population across the Atlantic and here. So we need concrete answers, and you provide them. They are all the more necessary and valuable in the economic field, where entrepreneurs legitimately ask themselves a number of questions. And to those who fear a retreat from the new US administration itself, it must be said that any sign of contempt for the vote expressed by the Americans will not favour partnership with the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u117	Mr President, last time I had a slight disagreement with Mr Hedebouw. I would like to stress once again today that values such as a free market economy and, of course, free trade guarantee an increase in prosperity in all societies and states where they are effectively applied. Mr Hedebouw, I do not know any system, I said at the time, where your principles are being applied and where one has been able to achieve the same prosperity. I believe that we must fight for these principles. I note that in the past, when it came to free trade with Canada, I found the same protectionism here in our country on certain banks that is being blamed today on the President-elect of the United States of America. I would therefore like to say to Mr Hedebouw, to a part of the left, and to Mr Trump, to unite. Not: proletarians of all countries, unite. But protectionists of all countries, unite. That's not my model of society. I am still in favour of free trade. We will have to defend it. As far as standards and values are concerned, Mr Prime Minister, I have said that democracy is a verb. We must not defend democracy in a sense of superiority, but we must defend our standards, our ethical values, our ethical progressivity, where it belongs. It is, I believe, more important to do that with an offensive attitude and with an open mind then, I repeat, with a certain superiority feeling... we are the best, we are superior to........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ No, a certain humility is part of that. I would therefore like to call for you to put on the European agenda the issues we are going for in Europe. If it is not possible with the 28 Member States, then with fewer Member States. That is a choice that we will have to make. We must opt for a strengthened Europe. That is the most important lesson we can learn from this election in America. They place us on our own responsibility. They're a wake-up call for us. Europe must reinvent itself. Then the European dream will live again effectively. I'm absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u118	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u119	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I propose that the draft law on certain rights of persons questioned be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, Nos 2030/1 to 8. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill on certain rights of persons under interrogation, Nos. 2030/1 to 8. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest to you that the Minister has asked me to start the agenda with that draft law, if that is all right with you. So we would start with the draft that has been added to the agenda, which is the draft on the Salduz Act. (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u120	In that case, we don't. We will respect the agenda as it was originally drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u122	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u123	Mr President, I would like to stress once again the importance of this draft law. We all know that we have faced an increased influx of refugees. The OCMWFs have very much taken their responsibilities in this regard. They have also received additional support, but they need some additional support. It is also very important that efforts are made to integrate recognised refugees more quickly. The present design should make this possible and provide additional support to the OCMWFs for the integration of recognised refugees. The equivalent of 10% on top of the living wage of asylum seekers goes to the OCMW's and they can use that extra money to help the recognised refugees work much faster. Everyone knows that working is a good way to accelerate integration. In doing so, the OMCW will be given the financial space to assign path guides to assist recognised refugees and their families in finding a suitable home, for appropriate work, for a school for the children. A smoother social integration of these people will thus be promoted. The decision proves once again that our asylum and migration policies are strict but fair. On the one hand, we are strict for those who do not deserve it, and for those who abuse the asylum procedure, there is a return policy for those who get a negative decision and who use the procedures illegally, and on the other hand we are very social and humane for those who do. Investment in successful integration into society and the labour market for recognised refugees is promoted by the present draft law and our group will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u124	Mr President, with the American presidential election this week, an important message has come out in the background. Many people and organisations, including Amnesty International Vlaanderen, Caritas International, Orbit, Pax Christi Vlaanderen and also Refugee Work Flanders, took action on 7 November to endorse Langemark's statement. That's what happened during the seventh wake of peace. In 1915, the entire population of Langemark, which was situated at the front of the war, fled the horror of the First World War. The Langemark Peace Watch would now gather people for four years with one goal, to stay awake for peace and for everything that actually stands in the way of peace today. The signatories of the Langemark Convention, including many artists, academics, politicians, philosophers, doctors and managers, call for all the forces in our society to work towards a culture of meeting without blinding themselves to the problems to be identified and addressed. I believe that we are also doing this today in this House, in this hemisphere, not blind to the problems, but are aware of the weakest, the war refugees. As was the case in 1915 we have to do so today. We need to be aware of war refugees who, in the end, rightly receive shelter and guidance from us. Last year we were confronted with a huge influx of refugees. In total, almost 40 000 people applied for asylum in our country. We know, of course, that not all these people will get asylum. After they have completed the procedure, it turns out that a 60% is eligible for protection and therefore also residence. This year 9 510 refugees were recognised and 2 538 received subsidiary protection. A lot of these people, a lot of those war refugees, eventually knock on the door at the OCMW, some for financial support and others because they are looking for guidance in finding a home or for education or training. In fact, research carried out by Unia a few years ago showed that at the time of recognition, 57% of asylum seekers received support. After a few years, it reduces. The figures given by the minister in committee showed that after two years about 35% of that group still receives a living wage. The living wage is paid back at a rate of 100 % by the federal government for that target group. However, the OCMWFs need additional support to ensure proper supervision of the recognised refugees. Minister Borsus, on 18 November last year I asked you in a question to give the OCMWs additional resources so that they could handle the task of assisting refugees. I am very pleased that, with the drafting of this text, you have followed up on what lives on the basis and what has been translated into Parliament, among other things, by me. It may be said that the OMCWs have responded quickly and in solidarity with the increased influx of refugees and are still doing so. Every day, OCMW staff are involved in guiding refugees. They show them the forest through the trees, they guide them when they find a home, when they open a bank account, when they find a school for the children, when they sign up for the language class, because of course they don't speak the language very often, or when they register with the VDAB, so they can look for work. The work done by the social workers of the OCMW is actually tailored care and contributes to the integration of the refugee. It is indeed important that newcomers integrate and become part of our society as soon as possible. The faster they can integrate and participate, the better for society. That's good for them and for society. If they are employed, they contribute to society and social security and thus contribute to the costs of health care and pensions. Anyone who does volunteering contributes in a different way. If they are active in a youth home, in their children's school, in a neighbourhood committee, they also contribute to a warm and inclusive society. This is therefore a win-win situation for the refugees and for society as a whole. The draft law meets the challenges arising from last year's exceptional situation. Therefore, additional funds are allocated exceptionally for two years, 2016 and 2017. The handling of the refugee files that came in last year takes some time. The largest group is recognised after several months or a year and we only see its effects in 2016 and 2017. In this way, the OCMWFs can gain additional financial breathing space to shape their important mission, to guide individuals. They will receive an extra 10% on top of the living wage. Of course, that money does not go to the refugees themselves, but to the OCMW to recruit an additional social assistant, for example, in order to better accompany the refugees. Only by giving people a chance to find a place in our society and to show our solidarity can we build an inclusive society, a society where everyone is cared for and where everyone finds their place. That way everyone can also participate in our society. Minister, I would like to congratulate you and thank you for the initiative. We unanimously approved the draft law in the Committee on Health. I hope that it will also be adopted unanimously in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u125	Minister, I do not have to tell you that I am a member of the opposition, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for this wonderful initiative. Mrs Lanjri has just explained very well what the OCMW's mission is and how important it is for the OCMW's to be supported to take up that task. Mrs Lanjri, I hope that you will include in your party the defence of the OCMWFs as well, because in Flanders they are ready to destroy the OCMWFs. I'd like to say something about that. I hear here from both Mrs Smeyers of the N-VA and Mrs Lanjri of CD&V how important it is for recognised refugees to be accompanied, for them to be given opportunities, for them to be integrated and for the OMCWs to be funded. I am beginning to get tired of this hypocrisy, because the OCMW of Antwerp has been condemned by the labour court for refusing refugees a housing premium. The president of the OCMW of Antwerp says that refugees are not welcome in Antwerp. Mrs Lanjri, your party is also in the majority there. Mrs. Smeyers, your chairman is mayor of Antwerp. Refugees must be helped by family and friends and end up in the shack mafia. One lives with 10 people in 2 rooms, which are not even heated. That's terrible for the people involved, but it's also fucking terrible for society as a whole. In the long run, that will cost us a lot of money and a lot of misery. Children do not have the chance to go to school and be housed in a decent way. That's a problem. The risk of hygiene problems and safety problems will increase dramatically. I would like you to be consistent and implement everything you say here, including at local level. We have just had a discussion. For the sake of clarity, you cannot blame me for refusing to set out realistic and reasonable routes for refugees and migrants. In fact, your own State Secretary has said that both opposition and majority have a consensus on a number of matters. Then he and the government will have to take responsibility for drawing up an integrated policy with the Länder. Mr Borsus, congratulations. I hope that you will continue to monitor the issue closely and, above all, ensure that sufficient resources are made available to ensure that the many recognised refugees are properly accompanied and received at local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u126	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u127	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2062/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2062/4) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u129	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1918/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1918/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Tim Vandenput, referred to his written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u134	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1919/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1919/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u135	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u136	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u137	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1930/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1930/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u139	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u140	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u141	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1999/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1999/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u143	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u144	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u145	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u146	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2017/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2017) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u147	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u149	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (200/2001) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2020/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u150	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u151	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u152	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u153	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2021/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2021/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u154	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u155	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u156	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u157	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u158	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2053/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2053/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u159	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u160	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u161	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the MR Group, I would like once again to welcome this bill, which provides a more appropriate regime for a large majority of job students in our country. The 2015 figures given by the Minister in committee reveal the need to update this system. It is 27,000 students who are directly affected, 20,000 having reached the 50-day limit and 7,000 having exceeded the 50-day limit. It is therefore easy to understand why three quarters of job students expect this flexibility, according to Randstad's study. The MR Group also welcomes the fact that the Minister has taken steps to ensure the transition for the Student@work application. Furthermore, fraud can be controlled via the Dimona system. These are the main reasons why our group will vote in favour of this bill. Having said that, Madam Minister, it will be interesting to closely monitor and analyse the evolution of student work in this new framework in order to see to what extent this new, more flexible system, as you mentioned in the committee, makes it possible to curb students' work in black, but also to see to what extent it can still be improved in order to reduce the proportion of students working without a contract of employment and, therefore, without any protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u163	Mr President, Minister, the draft law currently before us is intended to express student work in hours rather than days. In our group's view, this is a good thing, because the achievements of the students will then be kept up to date. The notebooks in which the hours are recorded, which are then converted into days, will therefore become superfluous. If a student performs only a few hours, then he will only be charged those hours and will not lose an entire day. However, we also have some comments on this draft law. Firstly, with the government we had actually agreed that the conversion of student work into hours would take place in consultation with the social partners. Unfortunately, we have found that the NAR has not come to a unanimous opinion on this dossier. Of course, you will not be surprised that I would prefer to see a draft law which has the full support of the social partners, but unfortunately that was not possible. Secondly, I would like to say that the limit of the number of hours a student is allowed to work per year has now been reached. Working days are now converted into hours and at the same time there will be an extension of 50 to 60 days. Taking into account 20 working days a month, that means a quarter of a year. A student can therefore work 3 full months a year and that is enough. The border is now reached. It is clear that the limit has been reached, given the current figures on student labour. Of the approximately 500 000 students who work for students, 4 per cent now work 50 days, a small minority. Even less, a negligible percentage of just over 1%, works for more than 50 days. On average a student works 23 days of the current 50 admitted days, so an extension to 475 hours or 60 days is more than enough. There is therefore no need for further enlargement. Thirdly, the number of days allowed to perform has been systematically extended, first to 50 days, now to 60 days. Student labour is now being organized more flexibly. We will have to take care of it, and with that you have agreed that this will not lead to repression in the regular labour market. Since a student can now work for 3 months a year, an employer with 4 students can actually organise a full-time job, but that cannot be the intention. Student labour is mainly intended for a financial bonus for the students and for a first acquaintance with the workplace. To that end, it must be limited. Nowadays, however, some supermarket chains recruit temporary workers from September to the end of June and during the summer vacation, supplementing the office with student labour. I was just looking at Makro's vacancies. The company asks students who come to work from 7 p.m. to midnight, 25 hours a week for the end of the year, from 1 December to the beginning of January. That's student work. I believe that the limit of flexibilisation and expansion of student labour has been reached. We must ensure that student labour does not crowd out regular work. It should also be borne in mind that the catering sector can combine student work and casual work and that the horticultural sector can combine student work and seasonal work, thus making as much student work possible. Madam Minister, as with the previous enlargement in 2012, I would ask you, after one year, to ask the social partners for an evaluation of the law, so that they can learn from it and, if necessary, adjust it or improve it. Moreover, a general observation is that the measures are far too little evaluated for their intended effect or for unintended side effects. As far as student labour is concerned, an evaluation must certainly be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u164	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group fully supports this bill. This is evident since the Open Vld Group submitted this proposal for the first time in its original version on 20 June 2008, two legislative hours ago. The student labour quota then consisted of 23 days in the summer vacation and 23 days outside. During this term of office, Mrs Nele Lijnen, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and myself presented an updated proposal, which was one of the priority legislative proposals in the Social Affairs Committee. The liberal proposal responds more to reality and aims, how else can it be, to give more freedom to students. We are convinced that a student job is positive for young people. They earn something extra and bring it back into the economy, they gain a first work experience and learn essential skills. These two last elements will certainly come in handy when they actually enter the labour market. After all, work experience is becoming increasingly important in the search for work. It's not just about diplomas anymore. This was also recognised in committee by PS, through colleague Frédéric Daerden. It goes without saying that the draft is also a positive one for employers. The fact that the calculation will now be made in hours makes it interesting for both students and employers. After all, there are certain tasks which should only be provided for a few hours and which do not cover a whole day. In the old system, the quota hours were souped up, for example by carrying out a specific assignment three hours a day within the student labour system. When it comes to student labour, conservative reactions also turn up time and time again. For example, we hear that students should study instead of working and that a student job would have negative consequences for the chances of success. That opinion is not demonstrated in any way. The fact that student jobs would disappear in the mainstream sector is also not demonstrated in any way. The opposite is true. I refer in this connection to Mr Vercamer's speech earlier, who himself indicated that the maximum quota in percentage uses only a marginal number of students. The expansion has also not led to regular jobs being suppressed by student jobs. We know that we have a very strict labour market, where everything is based on the contract of employment for an indefinite period for those who are well placed on the labour market. However, we have too few accession mechanisms that can respond flexibly to what is in the margins of the regular market with ordinary contracts of indefinite duration. In this way, we lack many groups of opportunities, which are not well integrated into the labour market. With these student jobs, we can just give young people opportunities to gain experience and thus better access to the labour market. There is no study that indicates that student labour has a negative impact on study, as confirmed by economist Stijn Baert of Ghent University. Stijn Baert is a young economist and researcher, who is highly regarded. Student labour is sometimes referred to as a kind of precarious employment. Some references are also made to the flexi-jobs. I think that reference is wrong. As I have just said, in addition to the classic statutes, we need, in particular, the status of the contract for an indefinite period of time, and we need just more opportunities for growth in the labour market. Just like student jobs, flexi jobs are a nice addition to that. They are not a substitute for regular work, but the supplement they are is welcome. There was also criticism in committee because there would be too little control over the overrun of the quota and compliance with the rules on working time. They referred to the Dimona declaration. But that's wrong. In the new scheme, however, a declaration must be introduced in advance in Dimona which is verifiable. There is therefore a good possibility for inspections to be carried out on the spot in order to determine whether the student status is regular. There has indeed been consultation with the social partners on this bill. They have come to a divided opinion. In all logic it is then up to the government to finally cut the buttons. That's what she's done now. She's taken on her responsibilities. Our group is very pleased that one of our priority legislative proposals, of which I was one of the authors, is being taken into account by the government and that Minister De Block is now moving towards the introduction of student work in hours. I believe that many students will welcome this and that it is, for example, a great improvement for the care sector, where people sometimes do not want to perform whole days but certain hours. Student labour is also welcome as a complement to those sectors where there is already a shortage of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u165	Mr Lachaert and Mr Vercamer, for the record, the sp.a is not against student labour. We can even live with the fact that the number is now increasing from 50 to 60 days. As you know, when we were in the government, we helped, including Mrs Onkelinx, to develop an easier communication system through Dimona, to give students more opportunities to work. The number of working hours has now increased to 475. This is how long students can be employed at a cost-effective rate. For the sake of clarity, this has been asked several times, including the previous government, and we are not against it in itself. Why didn't we decide? Because the RSZ could not provide us with a system that allowed students to register by the hour, so it could be clearly stated when they started and when they stopped, and with which they could be properly checked. The system is certainly not fraud-proof. That's why we refused. After all, what can become reality? Those 475 hours can be converted into 475 days. I know there aren't so many days in a year, but with control, it could always happen that one has just begun the first hour. Secondly, the repression on the labour market, there have been great speeches here this afternoon about the elections in America and the low-skilled white man who is no longer being discussed. I don't know what world you live in, but if I go to a grocery store on Sunday to do groceries, I'm gonna see all the students sitting at the register. Then I know that the cashiers who were there before have all been replaced by students. So you should not say that there is no displacement. Let me give you an example. I have others. However, I do not want to bore you with a lengthy intervention. So I hope you have an open mind to change things. However, change to change is not always good. So please make an evaluation and try to look at the results in a decent way. Try to make sure that low-skilled people still get a decent job, because in the end it is more sustainable and can not be replaced by flexible jobs and by student jobs. Just so we're clear, I've always been a job student myself. That was the only way for me to study. However, I believe that students should also have time to study. For all these reasons, we shall be voting against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u166	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, this bill bears its name badly. It is simply a matter of expanding further the possibilities of student work by transforming days into hours and taking advantage of the opportunity to increase the number of hours that can be worked each year by students. The first difficulty we face in relation to this text is that the previous enlargements of the possibility of student work, including those decided upon when Mrs De Coninck was Minister for Employment, have not been assessed as to their employment effects and as to the substitution effect that has been described. Workers, whose work is the only one, who pay social contributions, who need their income to live and educate their children and who, without employment, are unemployed, lose their work by being replaced by students. According to figures from 2011 and 2012, as a result of a first expansion and a relaxation of student work, the volume of student work had been increased by 16% and of that 16%, 5% were assessed as an alternative effect, i.e. workers had lost their jobs, being replaced by students. As Mr Vercamer pointed out, the government agreement provides that enlargement may be envisaged, but on the basis of an assessment study of the impact of the previous measures on student employment and on employment in the short term and on the basis of an agreement between the social partners. Mr Vercamer did not obtain either, yet he will vote on this law earlier. But this is just one of the many renunciations of the CD&V, unfortunately they are no longer counted under this legislature, although sometimes they are more correct than the other members of the majority. Minister, we are going to legislate on student work without having a serious study to measure what has happened in student work and all-round work since 2011, as a result of the various expansions in student work. I don't think that's a good way to work. You have quite easily rejected in committee the responsibility on the National Labour Council, which was responsible for this evaluation and which has not implemented it. I have the weakness to believe that when you are a minister and you want an evaluation of a mechanism before you legislate, if you put the means and persuasion in it, you can always do it. In other areas, too, we often find that the government prefers to move forward on ideological bases, such as a crazy train thrown into the fog, rather than on the basis of scientific assessments. When I hear my excellent Namibian colleague, Mrs Thoron, referring to Randstad's studies, it is interesting, but let us be aware that Randstad is one of the economic players in the student labour market. It generates profits, being the intermediary between employers and student workers. Randstad cannot have a neutral opinion on the matter. Randstad's study is not entirely uninteresting but nevertheless considers that it does not have the scientific value of a study carried out by the National Labour Council, which is made up, on a joint basis, of representatives of workers and employers and of any university. Indeed, on the basis of the methodology, we regret that this change in legislation is not based on a somewhat correct, somewhat robust assessment of the previous amendments. The second element concerns the report of the National Labour Council, which had not been communicated to us automatically, but it is public. There is a lack of agreement between the social partners on the subject. This is not the first time. But the opinions are diametrically opposed and, in any case, as far as the views of the workers' representatives are concerned, I do not have the impression that it has been taken into account in any way, in particular with regard to this substitution effect, in particular with regard to the status of the working student. In terms of student employment, we are actually faced with double loyalty. It is interesting that young people work during their holidays, in addition to their studies. They rub into the world of work. It is sometimes necessary to get the means to study, to stay in or to have additional leisure time. Most of us have tested student work. It's more of an interesting thing, as long as it's quotaed. The other loyalty is that of the workers who are, today, numerous in search of employment, many, and especially many, in the distribution sector to want to complete their working time, to leave the forced part time, in order to try to obtain a full-time contract. Let us at least intellectually admit that there can be competition on the ground between student workers, especially with the many flexibilities and enlargements that have been decided, and workers who pay social contributions, who need their wages to survive. How can we reconcile these two loyalties? It is, historically, by not preventing but by limiting the capacity for student work. I think we are taking a risk by extending more and more to the benefit of employers, especially because student work is cheaper than paid work, since it does not generate social contributions and does not finance social security. It is above all employers who are seeking this type of enlargement, but also students, I do not deny, who wish to work on midday or after their courses. Everything is a question of measurement and it is the main stumbling block of this text. Madam Minister, another source of dissatisfaction for our group is the flexibility provided for in this text. Today, more than yesterday, workers are being asked to be flexible. But there is a problem of compatibility of this flexibility with family life, health and some comfort. Any worker has the right to know, more than an hour in advance by being summoned by SMS, when he is going to work. Madam Minister, I see you're nodding your head. However, in the Dimona system provided for student work under this new formula, it is not compulsory, in the employer's head, to indicate the time of beginning and end of work. (…): (…)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u167	It's more than just an impression. This was stressed by the social partners and noted in the Social Affairs Committee, including by Mr Vercamer. I therefore told him that he should be consistent and vote against the text. But this is not always self-evident in the head of the CD&V. We are faced with a relaxation of the conditions of employment of young people, who lack respect for them. Students must organize their working time. They are no more than payable and corveable wage-earners at mercy or callable according to the goodwill or needs of employers. You should not be confused with being flexible and pressed like a lemon. Similarly, as long as student work is encouraged, in a context where unconditional rights are no longer granted to persons who have graduated from school and who apply for integration allowances or unemployment benefits, because they are temporarily without work, recognize the value of the work that has been carried out during the course of these students. Let us create rights within social security, even if there is no payment of social contributions! The government could have been creative in this area in order to mitigate a little the consequences of this flexibilization over and above student work. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government and the majority, our model is different. You can reply, Madam Minister! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u168	But don't be angry if I have a different point of view than yours! I'm even more angry and I'll explain why. Our employment model is not a model where students replace workers, and where workers find themselves unemployed. And once they are unemployed, they lose their rights because they are believed to have stayed there for too long. And once they're out of unemployment, they have to go knock on the door of the CPAS. And, once they have done so, they are still excluded through the ISIP system. If that's how you want to create jobs, that's not our model. Our model is rather a model of investment in the sectors of the future, those that can generate wealth for tomorrow, wealth that will also be better shared, through formulas for sharing working time and relaxing the career at the end of it, such as the Tandem plan. This logic of urging workers to finish, whether they are students or employees, is not ours, and that is why we will not be able to support your text, Madam Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u169	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some students work by choice, others by necessity, in particular to pay for their studies. But recognize that, in the vast majority of cases, it is a positive experience for each other. This gives them a first experience in the workplace, which is often an added value when looking for a job after their education. This bill converts the existing 50-day contingent into 475 hours. This shift in hours allows for greater flexibility. It also increases capacity by about 20%, allowing students to increase their workload by working under student status. But this also automatically represents a disadvantage since it will delay the time from which the student begins to build up social rights. Minister, I know that the pension issue is not your responsibility, but let me take it as an example because it is the one that speaks the most. In view of the fact that the length of career needed to take up a pension is constantly being extended, I plead that professional activity and social rights should be linked more closely, and above all that there should be a systematization when we start working. Indeed, by increasing the student's ability to work as a student, the moment at which he or she acquires his or her rights, including his or her pension rights, is further delayed. I would also like to highlight the problem of the monitoring mechanism, which will lead us to abstain in the vote on your text. Having a Dimona results in a Dimona recording, which will take place in hours if the student is occupied. Madam Minister, you told us in committee: "No, there will automatically be a Dimona registration; however, there is no control over it since I am introducing the obligation of a prior Dimona." Royal execution orders will be issued. You gave them to us, which I thank you for. I've read about it. I thought that, since this was not written in the bill, this prior Dimona obligation would be included in the Royal Order. But it's not. I looked at that arrest and I couldn't find it. All I have found, as I have already told you, is that I have read the documents of the organization, which is made up of the public social security institutions, the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, the federal public services responsible for the implementation of social security and the Egov association. They have a group called Smals, which makes adaptations of IT tools of ONSS – this is important – on the basis of the control of the government, since it is constituted by all the structures of social security. It is obviously on the basis of these documents that the employers will apply your bill and the orders. And in these documents of ONSS computer tools, what can be read? I take the example quoted, Madam Minister: "If the start date of the performance" – we are talking about the student job – "is December 15, the registration period is not considered late if it is declared Dimona before December 16 at 0:30." This means that if a student worked on December 15, there will be no Dimona – it's unacceptable and illegal – if the employer only registers it the next day before 0:30 a.m. Minister, it's written black and white in ONSS's computer records. This means that you say, as a minister, that Smals, made up of all the competent social security structures, is talking nonsense. These documents are sent to employers. So that's what they're going to apply. What you were saying is neither in the law nor in the decrees. All we find is the ONSS documents sent to employers and that employers will apply. There is a significant gap between your remarks and the intended mechanism. It is a tolerance, but it leads to the ineffectiveness of the control system. That is why, and because you have not marked things in the law, or in the decrees – this obligation of Dimona you are talking about before – we will abstain because not putting an effective and appropriate control mechanism, it is leaving an important margin of interpretation – it is 24 hours – which amounts to accepting fraud, or even inciting it. That's not acceptable. We will therefore abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u170	Mr President, on this issue of student work, I would like to start by quoting the young CSCs who, of course, are sensitive to the fate of the students. I understand that the minister cannot listen all the time, especially if she is asked. So I quote: "Young CSCs have a high regard for student work. Indeed, it gives young people an interesting experience. However, student jobs must not be reduced to a form of cheap and ultra-flexible work that replaces regular jobs. Nor can they serve as a solution to offset the constant increase in the cost of studies." That's the bottom line. In 450 hours, the 50 days currently allowed to work as a student, this amounts to a clear increase in the number of cheap student hours, to the detriment of the regular employment of often low-skilled people. Reforming the fifty-day period to make it an hourly regime also means that students are called even more often for just a few hours. In addition, the figures show that there is no need to strengthen and make students' work more flexible, as 65% of them work 25 days or even less. They work on average twenty-two days a year. Only 5,753 students – it seems a lot in absolute terms, but it is in fact very few, since it represents 1.2% of the total – exceeded the quota in 2014. For sectors such as horeca, already overly favoured by the flexi-job system, many exceptions are already allowed in terms of student work. Currently, the student can accumulate fifty days of casual work in this sector as a jobmaker. Colleagues, if we need to modernise the status of student jobists, it is by giving them more social rights, not by discouraging their working conditions. A young person who falls ill on his one-month contract during the holidays does not have a guaranteed salary, while his work is not counted as a period of work for the opening of social rights (e.g. right to unemployment or pension). That is why, colleagues, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u171	Mr President, briefly, because I have heard a lot of the same things as what was said in committee, and there was a detailed reply to them. I note Mr Vercamer's wish not to extend this further. He has said more than once that he remains a cool lover of it and that is his right. It is an interesting thing for students: there is more flexibility for them to combine studies and work. There is also more flexibility for the employer to recruit a student at peak times for a number of hours. We are about the only country where there is discussion about and where there are objections to the fact that students are already being introduced to work ethics and encourage them to work for the money they need to dust their students' lives or, as Mrs De Coninck says, because otherwise they would not be able to study. That is precisely why we have asked for an extension: there are students who are having a hard time and whose parents are having a hard time paying everything for them. I take note of Mrs Fonck's comment. It was said that more control is possible. That is why we made the previous Dimona declaration. Of course, labour law also continues to apply to students. So we will not be able to call by text, as has been said here, for an hour. The Social Inspectorate is also competent to act in this regard. If one finds that a student only works for an hour, this will also be discussed. All in all, Mr President, I think this is a step forward for many students. They've been asking this for a long time. The student atwork app will also be modified. From 1 January they can fly in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u172	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u173	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2081/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2081/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u174	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u175	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u176	Mr President, I refer to the written report. Mr President, Madam Minister, I now speak on behalf of my group. My group has no difficulty with the outline of this project, especially since you have presented this as a generalization of the possibility for ONSS to resort to coercion. Legally, the possibility for ONSS to resort to coercion is already general. It was in the royal decree of 28 November 1969 and the bill transposes this royal decree into a law. Apart from that, it already existed. You made it clear that it is for questions of transparency and legal certainty that a legal anchor of the whole regulation is being established. I can hear that argument. Having said that, I have a little difficulty in this case and I regret that we have not been able to evolve. This concerns small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as well as all small enterprises (SMEs). Minister, as you know, there is an opportunity for the employer to object to coercion. Any employer who is in difficulty with payment and who has requested a payment plan from the court will object to the court when he receives a constraint in order to recover the benefit of the payment plan. The opposition period provided for in your bill is fifteen days. This mechanism already exists for the self-employed and it works quite well. For self-employed persons in the same situation, the law allows them a period of one month. On the ground, it works quite well but in many cases they need this one-month delay because they do not have legal collaborators who can help them and the approach monopolizes quite a lot of energy and time. I find that the fact that it took only 15 days for companies to object is a pity because it is known that administrative resources and legal aid within SMEs and TPEs are limited, sometimes non-existent. This opposition period can monopolize a lot of energy and can also play a role in obtaining a feasible and desirable transaction. I had tabled an amendment in committee, and I am resubmitting it today. It allows companies to apply a period of one month, as for self-employed workers. I find that the distinction between self-employed and very small enterprises is not justified. This amendment has not been followed. I do not, however, despair, ladies and gentlemen of the majority; perhaps you will be able to pay attention to the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we can take into account sufficient time to allow them the possibility of taking steps before the court, when these must and can be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u177	Mr President, it is an interesting point that one should no longer go to the labour court, but that a payment plan with the RSZ can also be made. That also avoids many difficulties. People with payment difficulties are not directly cut to the throat, but through an administrative payment plan they can get the breathing space to solve their problems. There's no problem with the deadline. Fifteen days is a reasonable time. We have also created a double system: the messages sent by the RSZ will go through the e-Box, but Mr Clarinval has made that remark at the same time an email is sent with the message that there is a message in the e-Box. This is another major step in administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u178	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u179	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2082/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2082/4) The title was amended by the Committee in the draft Law amending the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers and repealing Chapter III, Section 3, of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 on the revision of the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers, as regards the recovery by means of an injunction by the National Office for Social Security and amending the Law of 24 February 2003 on the modernisation of the management of social security and on electronic communications between undertakings and the Federal Government.' The title has been amended by the Commission into a bill amending the Act of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 concerning social security for workers and repealing Chapter III, Section 3, of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 adopted in implementation of the Act of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 concerning social security for workers, as regards the coerced recovery by the National Social Security Office and amending the Act of 24 February 2003 concerning the modernization of the management of social security and concerning electronic communication between enterprises and the federal authority. The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u180	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u181	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Article 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u182	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u183	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u184	This proposal was adopted by the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions pursuant to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal was adopted by the Scientific and Technological Opinion Committee pursuant to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2096/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2096/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u185	Mr President, the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions has been working on this for about two years. I therefore think it is appropriate to give a brief account of the work. Between May 2015 and November 2015, a whole series of hearings were organised on various aspects of self-driving vehicles such as the insurance issue, the Road Code, road safety and driving training. Policy and technical aspects were also addressed. All this information led, after a number of meetings and informal contacts of the Advisory Committee, to the text that we are presenting to this plenary session today. The resolution begins, of course, with the outline of the technological context. It is a context in which evolution is moving very quickly. With regard to the automation of vehicles, we move on week after week towards a self-driving car. We are talking about classic, large car manufacturers as well as new actors. Think of the Google car, but also Tesla who bet on it. The advisory committee sees a lot of advantages from that self-driving car. Think about road safety. 90% of road accidents are caused by human error. Self-driving vehicles could play an important role in improving road safety. There is also the impact on spatial planning, sustainability and public transport. They are all elements in which the self-driving car could play a positive role. There are also negative aspects and challenges that we will have to deal with. I am thinking of cyber security, the security of such motor vehicles, the privacy of the data of such moving computers, liability in the event of accidents and road safety, including ethical issues. How exactly is such a car programmed? What if a car has to choose between crashing with a cyclist or crashing on a wall at some point? That car must be properly programmed for that purpose. These are important issues that still have to be answered. Experts agree that it will be a long time before the classic car user will have confidence in such vehicles. It's gonna take some time. There are also challenges in the area of telecoms, for example the Internet coverage, which will have to be quite complete on the territory in order for these cars to be connected constantly. We must also pay attention to the risk of reverse modal shift in order to avoid making individual car use more interesting than collective transport. There is certainly a need for a European framework, a harmonised road infrastructure at European level, a European regulation and preferably a European driving licence. I have already mentioned the prospects and benefits. It leads to better road safety. It can also lead to a limitation of traffic jams because the capacity of the roads can be used much more efficiently. We must also bear in mind the long period of mixed traffic, in which self-driving and non-self-driving cars will be able to get in touch with each other. A lot of things are listed in the requests to the government. The legal framework is an important one, both as regards the role of the driver in such vehicles and as regards the legal framework for possible pilot projects. We also ask in the requests to ensure the use of individual vehicles in relation to collective transport, that reverse modal shift that I have already mentioned. Together with the Regions, it will also be necessary to consider how these self-driving vehicles can be included in driving training. We also ask to implement ISA, the system of intelligent speed adaptation. We believe that this is a very important element for self-driving vehicles. Together with the Regions, it is also necessary to ensure that as much open data as possible is available in relation to infrastructure and mobility schedules, a question of how to regulate programming properly. European coordination of research and development of legislation and infrastructure will be necessary. All this in consultation with the sector. Finally, we believe that the impact of self-driving vehicles on other sectors, such as care for the elderly and urban development, should also be carefully examined and investigated. Mr President, that was a brief report on the work of the Committee, the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions. I now come to my speech on behalf of my group. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few personal reservations about the phenomenon of self-driving vehicles. We cannot ignore the fact that many people are looking at this new technology with a certain fear or distrust and that they are not immediately ready to give up the wheel, literally and figuratively. Even if a pedestrian encounters a car in which no person is present, that would at least provide eyebrows frenzy. That is quite understandable, but we can now also assume that the self-driving car will be there in any case. We, as policy-makers, should prepare for this. When it will be effective, when it will be 100 % self-driving, it is impossible to say today. It won't be for tomorrow, it won't be for next year, but it's clear there's an evolution going on. Vehicles are increasingly equipped with driving assistance functions. The AudiTT thus takes over more and more tasks from the driver. Today, for example, there are already cars in traffic jams on motorways that can be set up to follow traffic at a maximum speed of 30 kilometers per hour. The driver doesn't have to do anything else. It is a first step towards self-driving vehicles. There is not only fear and mistrust among drivers and road users, there is also concern among researchers, spatial planners, scientists and mobility experts. Recently a report by the Boston Consulting Group, commissioned by the city of Amsterdam, was published, warning, among other things, of a growing use of the car due to the self-driving aspect, and thus also for a further increase in traffic jams. That is one of the effects that will have to be followed up very well. It is clear that there is little room for extra car use in our country. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must also, and above all, face up to the opportunities of the self-driving car and dare to take full advantage of it. I am looking first and foremost at road safety. I have said it many times here: today more than two people are still dying in traffic in Belgium. We must bear that in mind. If there are instruments for drastic intervention, then we must not miss that opportunity. 90% of road accidents are at least partly due to drivers' personal mistakes. From this it can be inferred that automation of those driver tasks can provide additional safety. In that sense I had to laugh a bit at a tweet by Edward Snowden a few months ago. In the full threat of terror and during the discussions about investing extra in security, he tweeted that there is one case that can save more lives than investment in anti-terrorist organisations, namely the self-driving car. This was a striking example, showing how many lives can be spared by self-driving cars. That alone is why it is worth going for it. Secondly, there is also an opportunity to make a leap forward in the rather slow evolution of car ownership to car parts. Often there is not a car available immediately or one has to walk a few kilometers to get to a car. That's a brake to get into car parts. From the moment one can call an automatic Audi A6 to go home, that brake falls away. Then, in my view, that leap forward can be made. Then there is also the opportunity to tackle transport poverty. Especially in remote areas where it is difficult to organise public transport which by definition relies on larger flows of persons, the self-driving car could play a particularly important additional role in public transport, including in the pre- and post-transport sector. Finally, there is also the economic opportunity that Europe, and certainly our country, should try to seize in order to take advantage of the further development and technological investment that must be made in these self-driving cars. Furthermore, I think that our country could be a very interesting area to organise pilot projects. If there is now a country that can be said to have a self-driving car there safely, then it will be able to do so anywhere, then that is certainly our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that we must make the most of this, bearing in mind, of course, the possible side effects and disadvantages that need to be managed properly. That does not alter the fact that evolution is what it is and that we are better prepared for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u186	I turn the floor to Mr Foret, who is the chairman of the opinion committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our rapporteur, Mr M. Van den Bergh for the very complete presentation of the proposal. As you have seen, from the very beginning there has been a discussion of collective work within the Scientific and Technological Advisory Committee. I would therefore like to thank each of the political groups, as well as all the Members and collaborators who have participated in this work, in a constructive and positive spirit. I would also like to thank the many experts we have received from the administration, the academic world or the company, from the actors with whom we have been able to exchange and who have shared with us their experience, their expertise on this subject, as complex as it is interesting. Thanks to them, we have been able to identify the challenges, related to the arrival of autonomous vehicles on our roads, and the challenges ahead, particularly at the legislative level. We must prepare ourselves and adapt our framework to this technology, which will certainly be a real revolution for our society. Finally, I would be grateful if I could not recall that the work of the Committee has been initiated by our colleague Damien Thiéry, whom I would like to associate fully with this text presented to you today in plenary. As Chairman of the Opinion Committee, I am particularly pleased and proud to defend this motion for a resolution. Firstly, because it was voted unanimously by all the political groups in the Committee, and secondly because it symbolizes a collective awareness of the importance for us legislators of being part of the reality of a changing world, by trying to anticipate the technological innovations that will upset our society of tomorrow. Autonomous vehicles, thus without a driver, are no longer fictional. Technology is there, it's a reality. Today, prototypes of Apple, Tesla or other operators have already travelled millions of kilometres of testing, in real-life situations. Tomorrow, these vehicles will end up on our roads and revolutionize our society. To give you an order of magnitude, colleagues, we estimate in 2019, the first autonomous Google cars delivered, and in 2030, the mass production of fully autonomous vehicles; 2030 is tomorrow. Beyond this simple exercise of technological innovation, it is often mainly the advantages generated by these vehicles that have prompted us to draft this motion for a resolution. These are found in a wide variety of fields: firstly, in terms of safety, this has been recalled, with a drastic reduction in the number of road victims, then, in terms of mobility, obviously with a constantly decreasing fleet, at least differentiated, and which will allow the intensive use of shared public transport and carpooling. Finally, in environmental terms, with fewer cars on roads, fewer cars on parking but also a way of driving become much more efficient and much less energy efficient. The arrival of autonomous vehicles is therefore excellent news both in terms of mobility and for the environment and public health. Of course, this technology also brings with it a lot of questions and questions: the problem of computer hacking, the guarantee of privacy, the question of civil liability that still needs to be decided, especially in the event of an accident, such as the choice of the vehicle algorithm if the accident is inevitable. Should the owner of the vehicle or the child crossing the street be rescued? These will be the emotional choices that will have to be decided. We also note the coverage of telecoms. The white areas must also be covered because, if the car may be autonomous, it must be interconnected. There is also the planned obsolescence, the impact of this technology on employment and driving training. All these questions deserve to be asked and I can assure you that they have been studied in the course of our work. We have a duty to be the most vigilant in order to ensure that this technological innovation is implemented in the interests of our citizens and our society. We must also strongly plead for Belgian and European harmony regarding the integration of these autonomous vehicles. Today, despite the remaining shadows and questions, we must resolutely commit ourselves, commit Belgium to the path of progress and mobility of the future, because in terms of socio-economic opportunities as well, experience shows us that it is best to be among the pioneers to create activity and employment in these emerging sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, this text, as we are well aware, is limited in scope, but it allows us to affirm our will, as parliamentarians, to remain attentive to the technological developments that are taking place. It also symbolizes a collective awareness of the need to modernise a legislative framework, if it is no longer adapted to the reality in which we operate. Finally, it reinforces the current momentum for Belgium to position itself as one of the European leaders in the digital sector. That is why, with this motion for a resolution, we call on the Federal Government, first of all, to quickly create the necessary legal framework for the initial implementation of pilot projects for autonomous vehicles in Belgium and, secondly, to consult the other states, with a view to harmonising research and the legislative framework for autonomous vehicles, while, of course, working with the Regions on a coherent approach to road safety and infrastructure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Opinion Committee again. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for giving confidence to this text, the first of its kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join with the previous two speakers, but from our party I would like to make a few points which we consider important in relation to autonomous vehicles. For us, the text of the resolution is autonomous vehicles, which were produced with broad consensus in the advisory committee. In my view, the question is not whether we are in favour or against autonomous vehicles, because this is not the subject of discussion. Autonomous vehicles will be available anyway, because the technology already exists. The question is how we, as legislators, can prepare ourselves for the arrival of these vehicles. How can we ensure that self-driving vehicles can drive in a legal way? How can we ensure that self-driving vehicles contribute to reducing the number of road accidents? This is very important; I will come back to it later on How should we adapt our infrastructure so that these self-driving vehicles can drive as optimally as possible? How can we make better use of the capacity of our roads through self-driving vehicles? During the discussions in the Advisory Committee, we held several hearings. The reporter, Mr Van den Bergh, has just referred to it. We've been able to hear all the stakeholders. What is particularly important to me and what is important to our party, N-VA, is that we should remain realistic. In our view, self-driving vehicles will not lead to shared collective transport and they will not immediately lead to a reduction in the number of vehicles. On the contrary, as far as congestion is concerned, it remains to be seen whether the advantage, better connectivity on the road, will outweigh the disadvantage, namely the fact that the car will be used more. Studies by RAND Corporation, among others, show that many groups that could not previously use a car will be able to do so now. I am thinking of children, disabled people, the elderly and so on. Car dynamometers will sometimes also run empty to pick up people or to park themselves. As the comparative advantage of the train disappears, it will also be more attractive to be in traffic, because one will be able to work in the car. The N-VA therefore calls for great caution to see the self-driving vehicles as deus ex machina that will solve the problem of congestion. We want to nuance that picture and propose that attention should also be paid to the necessary steering measures, including the smart mileage tax. In my view, such a measure can solve the problem of congestion better than self-driving vehicles will. As I said earlier, we believe that the greatest advantage of self-driving vehicles is road safety. In the explanatory statement of the text you can read that in 2015 there were 755 road deaths and thousands injured, which is a high figure. Ninety percent of all accidents are apparently due to human error. Computers are of course better drivers because they cannot commit human error. There lies the great advantage of self-driving cars. We therefore believe that they can and will drastically reduce the number of road accidents. Any traffic victim we can avoid is a step forward. On top of all human suffering, people who have been in an accident know all too well that this is a very tragic suffering, and there is also the cost of road accidents. Finally, our view on this is very realistic. What the future brings, we don't know exactly. However, it is certain that the self-driving cars will be there. We will have to adapt our policies and regulations gradually and step by step to this evolution. I am thinking in particular of the hearing with a representative of the Dutch Government, who stated that learning by doing is being done in the Netherlands. They allow and learn a lot from the pilot projects with self-driving motor vehicles. In this way, they will adapt their policies. We have to go the same way. Politics must go along with technology. Too often politics tends to go behind the facts. We cannot allow that to happen here. I would also like to mention the leading role played by Flanders in this area and to which reference is made in the explanatory statement of the resolution. In Flanders, pilot projects are planned under the impetus of Minister Ben Weyt. In 2015, Flanders started a self-driving bus project at Zaventem Airport. If all goes well, these buses will also effectively run on a specific course in 2018. We must support such projects. We will therefore follow the dossier closely. Finally, I would like to thank all the other parties for their cooperation on the resolution. The text, which is widely supported, shows that it is possible to take important steps beyond party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u189	Mr President, I will be autonomous and quick. It is clear that technologies are evolving at an extraordinary speed and that all advances have a significant impact on our lives. However, this impact may be positive or negative. With regard to the resolution before us, autonomous vehicles have considerable potential. This is why pilot projects must be encouraged and our legislation adapted to enable them to be implemented. The reduction in the number of vehicles in use, emissions of CO2 or fine particulate matter or road accidents are among the advantages. Given the number of injuries on our roads, the time lost by drivers and the pollution associated with road traffic, autonomous vehicles are one of the elements of the future of mobility. But many issues still need to be addressed, including insurance mechanisms or privacy. The use of these technologies in rural areas is also a key element that we care about. Computer hacking is part of our world and it is essential to protect ourselves and our data. As far as rural areas are concerned, it is known that they do not always have effective communication networks. They may not be able to access this new technology. We must therefore ensure that it will not increase the gap between rural and urban areas. Issues to be analysed include driving licence requirements for self-driving vehicles, dependence on technology, the risk of increased planned obsolescence or employment impacts. Legislation must therefore be adopted as we ask, but taking account of the European character of transport in all these aspects. Finally, I would like to point out that autonomous vehicles are only one of the elements of a sustainable mobility policy. It is also through a coordinated spatial planning policy and quality public transport – which can also be autonomous – that we will be able to improve safety and reduce our impact on the environment. Public transport, carpooling or soft mobility must be combined with this very promising technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u190	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u191	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u192	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u193	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u194	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2030/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2030/8) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u195	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u196	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2103/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2103/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u197	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u198	As a result of the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a second call for candidates for a mandate of female French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 September 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016. Following the resignation of Ms Camille Dieu, a second call for candidates for a French-speaking female member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate" appeared in the Belgian Moniteur of 23 September 2016, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I propose that you publish a third call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I propose that you publish a third call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u199	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016, a third call for candidates for the nomination of the members of the National Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 September 2016. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016, a third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 September 2016 for the presentation of the members of the National Commission for the Evaluation of the Voluntary Termination of Pregnancy. The National Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy Abruptment consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: The National Commission for the Evaluation of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy is composed of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, lecturers or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are professor, lecturer or professor emeritus of medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are professor, lecturer or emeritus professor of law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members are professor, lecturer or professor emeritus of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and supervision of women in an emergency. - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and guidance of women in distress. Members shall be nominated by royal decree from a double list by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of four years, taking into account linguistic parity and pluralist representation. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Taking into account linguistic parity and on the basis of pluralistic representation, members are appointed by royal decree from a double list presented by the House of Representatives, for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who are not elected as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. The Commission has nine women and seven men. There are nine women and seven men in the Commission. Following the three calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal and taking into account the extension of certain categories of the Commission by the Law of 16 June 2016, the following applications were submitted: Following the three calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor and taking into account the enlargement of certain categories of the Commission by the Act of 16 June 2016, the following applications were submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u200	- Mr Hendrik Cammu (N), lecturer at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel - Mr. Hendrik Cammu (N), lecturer at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel - Mr Jan Deprest (N), Professor of Medicine at the Faculty of Medicine KULeuven - Mr. Jan Deprest (N), Special Professor, Faculty of Medicine, KULeuven' - Mr Roland Devlieger (N), Professor at the KULeuven - M. Roland Devlieger (N), Senior Lecturer at KULeuven Mrs Isabelle Dumont (F), physician - Ms. Isabelle Dumont (F), Doctor of Medicine - Mrs Anne Firquet (F), physician - Ms. Anne Firquet (F), Doctor of Medicine - Mr Thierry Fobe (F), physician - Mr. Thierry Fobe (F), Doctor of Medicine - Mr Jacques Germeaux (N), physician - Mr. Jacques Germeaux (N), Doctor of Medicine - Mr Wilfried Gyselaers (N), Professor at Hasselt University - M. Wilfried Gyselaers (N), Senior Lecturer at Hasselt University Mrs Chantal Kortmann (N), physician - Ms. Chantal Kortmann (N), Doctor of Medicine - Mrs Yannick Manigart (F), physician - Ms. Yannick Manigart (F), Doctor of Medicine - de heer Jean-Noël Missa (F), docent aan de Université libre de Bruxelles - Mr. Jean-Noël Missa (F), lecturer at the Free University of Brussels Mr Christian Moulart (F), physician - Mr. Christian Moulart (F), Doctor of Medicine - Mr Gunnar Naulaers (N), Professor at the KULeuven - Mr. Gunnar Naulaers (N), Principal Lecturer at KULeuven - de heer Didier Piquard (F), docent aan de Université libre de Bruxelles - Mr Didier Piquard (F), lecturer at the Free University of Brussels - Ms Kristien Roelens (N), lecturer at Ghent University - Ms Kristien Roelens (N), lecturer at the University Gent - Mrs Dominique Roynet (F), physician - Ms. Dominique Roynet (F), Doctor of Medicine - mevrouw Christine Verellen-Dumoulin (F), emeritus hoogleraar van de Université catholique de Louvain - Christine Verellen-Dumoulin (F), Professor Emeritus of the Catholic University of Leuven - Mr Tony Vermeulen (N), physician - Mr. Tony Vermeulen (N), Doctor of Medicine Mrs Anne Verougstraete (N), physician - Ms. Anne Verugstraete (N), Doctor of Medicine Mrs Karine Welffens (F), physician - Ms. Karine Welffens (F), Doctor of Medicine
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u201	Mrs Ingrid Boone (N), Professor at the KULeuven - Mme Ingrid Boone (N), Senior Lecturer at KULeuven - Elise Boutriau (F), lawyer - Ms. Elise Boutriau (F), lawyer - Mrs Mathilde Coëffé (F), lawyer - Ms. Mathilde Coëffé (F), lawyer - de heer Jean-Marc Hausman (F), docent aan de Université catholique de Louvain-la-Neuve - Mr. Jean-Marc Hausman (F), lecturer at the Catholic University of Louvain-la-Neuve - mevrouw Anne Lagerwall (F), docent aan de Université libre de Bruxelles - Mrs Anne Lagerwall (F), Lecturer at the Free University of Brussels - heer Jules Messine (F), emeritus hoogleraar van de Université libre de Bruxelles - Mr. Jules Messine (F), Professor Emeritus of the Free University of Brussels - Mr Nathan Radelet (F), lawyer - Mr. Nathan Radelet (F), lawyer - Mr Jan Vande Moortel (N), lawyer - M. Jan Vande Moortel (N), avocat - Mr Mario Van Essche (N), lawyer - Mr. Mario Van Essche (N), lawyer - Ms Myriam Van Varenbergh (N), lawyer - Ms. Myriam Van Varenbergh (N), lawyer - Mr Jean-Marc Wolter (F), lawyer - Mr. Jean-Marc Wolter (F), lawyer
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u202	- Ms Kathleen Alen (N), staff member at non-profit association Fara - Ms Kathleen Alen (N), a collaborator with the ASBL Fara - Mr Frédéric Brichau (F), coordinator at the Centre de planning familial Willy Peers - Mr. Frédéric Brichau (F), Coordinator at the Willy Peers Family Planning Centre - Mrs Violaine De Clerck (F), psychologist at the Centre de planning familial de l'ULB - Ms. Violaine De Clerck (F), psychologist at the ULB Family Planning Centre - Mrs Dorothée Depoortere (F), responsible for the non-profit-making Centre Aurore Carlier in Tournai - Ms. Dorothée Depoortere (F), Head of the ASBL Centre Aurore Carlier in Tournai - mevrouw Isabelle de Ville (F), bij advisor Family planning "Like Louvain-la-Neuve" in bij "Free clinic" te Elsene - Ms Isabelle de Ville (F), Advisor at the Family Planning "Like Louvain-la-Neuve" and the "Free clinic" in Ixelles Mrs Arlette Geuens (N), Deputy Secretary at the Ziekkenfonds De Voorzorg-Limburg - Ms. Arlette Geuens (N), Deputy Secretary, Mutualité De Voorzorg-Limburg - mevrouw Sylvie Lausberg (F), Director bij het Centre d'Action Laique - Sylvie Lausberg (F), Director of the Centre for Laica Action Mrs Thérèse Locke (F), Legal Director of Brugmann University Hospital and Maître d'enseignement at Université libre de Bruxelles - Ms. Thérèse Locoge (F), Legal Director of the Brugmann University Hospital and teacher at the Free University of Brussels - mevrouw Géraldine Mathieu (F), reader aan de Université de Namur - Ms. Géraldine Mathieu (F), Lecturer at the University of Namur Mr Michel Pasteel (F), Director of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men - Mr Michel Pasteel (F), Director of the Institute for Equality of Women and Men - Mr Vincent Schillebeeckx (F), psychologist at "La Famille Heureuse de Saint-Gilles" - M. Vincent Schillebeeckx (F), psychologist with "The Happy Family of Saint-Gilles" Mrs Ellen Van Stichel (N), staff member of Fara - Ms Ellen Van Stichel (N), collaborator at the ASBL Fara - Ms Carine Vrancken (N), Director of the Burgundy Centre - Ms. Carine Vrancken (N), Director of the Burgundy Centre Mrs Violaine De Clerck presented her candidacy on the first call for candidates but after the deadline for submission. Since a second call was published, it is proposed to declare this application admissible. Ms Violaine De Clerck submitted her application following the first call for candidates but outside the deadline for submission of applications. Since a second appeal has been published, it is proposed to declare this application admissible. Sufficient applications were submitted for all categories. Sufficient applications have been submitted for all categories. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, candidates' CVs will be delivered to political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u203	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016, a third call to candidates for the mandates of a member of the non-notary of the French-speaking Appointments Commission for the notary has been published in the categories "doctor or professors in law" and "external members." In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016, a third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 22 September 2016 for the terms of office of non-notary members at the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat, in the categories "charged with courses or professor of law" and "external members". The Dutch-speaking and French-speaking nomination committees for the notaries are each composed of eight working and eight alternate members, each with four notaries and four non-notaries. The appointment commissions for the French- and Dutch-language notariat are each composed of eight effective members and eight alternate members, each of whom consists of four notaries and four non-notaries. Members of notaries are appointed by the National Chamber of Notaries. Notary members are appointed by the National Chamber of Notaries. Members shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives, with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from the following three categories: - one magistrate, - one lecturer or professor of law; - two external members with professional experience relevant to the contract. Non-notary members shall be appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from among the following three categories: - a magistrate; - a lecturer or a professor of law; - two external members with professional experience useful for the mission. At least one working or alternate member of the French-speaking appointment committee shall provide proof of the knowledge of German. At least one effective or alternate member of the French-language appointment board must be able to demonstrate knowledge of German. In accordance with Article 38 (7) of the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI of the Notarial Office, as amended by Article 2 of the Law of 27 April 2016, the members of the Appointment Committees for the Notarial Office are appointed for a period of four years, renewing every two years the mandates of half of the working and alternate members. In accordance with Article 38 § 7 of the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat, as amended by Article 2 of the Law of 27 April 2016, the members of the Appointment Commissions for the notariat are appointed for a term of four years; the terms of half of the actual and alternate members are renewed every two years. As a transitional provision, Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notarial office provided that, at the first re-conciliation after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members are appointed for a period of two years. As a transitional measure, it is stipulated - in Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat - that at the first composition after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members will be appointed for a term of two years. Following the three calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted: Following the three calls for candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the following applications were submitted:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u204	- Mr Philippe Gysbergs, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent - Mr. Philippe Gysbergs, General Counsel, Ghent Court of Appeal - Ms Ria Mortier, Advocate General at the Court of Cassation - Ms. Ria Mortier, Advocate General of the Court of Cassation - Ms Alexandra Schoenmaekers, Counsellor at the Brussels Labour Court - Ms Alexandra Schoenmaekers, Counsellor at the Brussels Labour Court - Mr Patrick Tailly, Judge at the Court of First Instance West Flanders - Mr. Patrick Tailly, judge at the Court of First Instance of West Flanders - Mr Bart Van Den Bergh, counsel at the Antwerp appeal court - Mr. Bart Van Den Bergh, Counsellor at the Antwerp Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u205	- Mr Stefan Rutten, Professor at the University of Antwerp - Mr. Stefan Rutten, Senior Lecturer at the Antwerp University - Mr Geert Vervaeke, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the KULeuven - Mr. Geert Vervaeke, Professor, KULeuven Law School
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u206	- Mr Etienne Allaert, Deputy Auditor at the Dutch-speaking Appointments and Appointments Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice - Mr Etienne Allaert, Deputy Auditor of the Dutch Language Appointment and Designation Committee of the Supreme Council of Justice - Mr David Baele, Deputy Auditor at the Supreme Court of Justice - Mr. David Baele, Deputy Auditor of the Supreme Council of Justice - Ms Isabelle Dupré, strategic advisor at the College of Courts and Courts - Ms. Isabelle Dupré, Strategic Advisor to the College of Courts and Courts - Ms Ria Mortier, Advocate General at the Court of Cassation - Ms. Ria Mortier, Advocate General of the Court of Cassation - Mr Tom Ryken, lawyer at the Legal Society Knowledge Centre for bailiffs - Mr. Tom Ryken, lawyer at the Centre of Social Legal Expertise for Judicial Officers - Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout, attorney at the Bar in Kortrijk - Mr. Antoine Van Eeckhout, lawyer at the Courtrai Bar - Mr Geert Vervaeke, Professor at the Faculty of Law at KULeuven - Mr. Geert Vervaeke, Professor, KULeuven Law School
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u207	- Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, Judge at the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels - Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, judge at the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels - Mr Olivier Michiels, counsel at the Liège appeal court - Mr Olivier Michiels, Counsellor at the Liège Court of Appeal - Mr Eric Robert, President of peace judges and judges in the police court of the judicial district of Luxembourg - Mr. Eric Robert, President of the Justices of the Peace and Judges of the Police Tribunal of the Judicial District of Luxembourg
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u208	- Mr Frédéric Georges, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Université de Liège - Mr. Frédéric Georges, Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Liège - Mr Damien Jans, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Université catholique de Louvain - Mr. Damien Jans, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Catholic University of Leuven
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u209	- Ms Sandrine Corman, MR group secretary in the Chamber of Representatives - Ms Sandrine Corman, Secretary of the MR Group of the House of Representatives - Mr Guy Cremer, company revisor - Mr. Guy Cremer, Business Reviewer - Mr André Culot, independent tax advisor at the Institute of Accountants and Tax Advisors - Mr. André Culot, independent tax advisor at the Institute of Accountants and Tax Boards - Mr François Dubois, candidate bailiff - Mr. François Dubois, candidate bailiff - Mr Bernard Garcez, Head of Legal Service of the Intercommunal du Brabant wallon - Mr Bernard Garcez, Head of the Legal Service of the Intercommunal of Walloon Brabant - Mr Patrick Gielen, bailiff - Mr. Patrick Gielen, housekeeper of justice. - Ms Stéphanie Mees, translator at the Supreme Court of Justice - Ms. Stephanie Mees, translator at the Supreme Council of Justice - Mr Christophe Philippe, Head of the Peace Courts and the Police Court of the Arrondissement of Luxembourg - Mr. Christophe Philippe, Chief Registrar of the Justices of the Peace and the Police Court of the borough of Luxembourg - Mr Christian van Lidth de Jeude, Managing Director, NV Arkadia - Mr Christian van Lidth de Jeude, Managing Director at Arkadia SA There are sufficient candidates for the mandates of working members of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Appointment Committees, both for the two-year mandates and for the four-year mandates. The number of candidates is sufficient for the effective members of the French- and Dutch-language Appointment Commissions, whether for terms of two or four years. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I propose that Mr André Culot's candidacy be declared inadmissible and a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Deputy Member of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Appointment Committees for the category "Professor or Lecturer." The candidates' CVs for the mandates of working members will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I propose that you declare the candidature of Mr André Culot inadmissible and that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur for the appointment of an alternate member of the Commissions de nomination de langue française et de langue dutche in the category "Professor or lecturer". The curriculum vitae of candidates for effective membership will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u210	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert c.s.) amending the Act of 13 February 1998 laying down provisions for the promotion of employment in order to extend the application of the Renault Act to subcontractors, No. 2144/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert c.s.) amending the Act of 20 September 1948 on the organisation of business with a view to establishing an economic and social alert right within the works councils, No. 2146/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u211	- the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert c.s.) amending the Civil Code in order to provide for gender equality in the case of the transfer of the name to the child, No. 2145/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u212	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Jef Van den Bergh) on combating hit-and-run crime, No. 2147/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u213	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Ms Evita Willaert et al.) amending the Act of 13 February 1998 on employment provisions to extend the application of the Renault Act to subcontractors, No. 2144/1. - the proposal for a law (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Ms Evita Willaert et al.) amending the Act of 20 September 1948 on the organization of the economy, aimed at creating an economic and social alert right in the works councils, No. 2146/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u214	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert et al.) amending the Civil Code with a view to introducing equality of men and women in the method of transmitting names to children, No. 2145/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u215	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Jef Van den Bergh) to combat the crime of flight, No. 2147/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u216	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u217	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee on 26 October 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on October 26, 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 176/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Damien Thiéry, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 176/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Alain Top and Sebastian Pirlot and Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u218	Mr President, the ACV has recently published a brochure containing a study on the employability of the military. This study came in response to the high performance that the military must deliver in the context of the Homeland mission. The study of the ACV relies on the original performance sheets of 29 soldiers from 6 units. This shows that the staff has to perform more and more, without limiting the number of hours and that the military are fully rewarded for the actual performance. That makes the military cheap labor. In addition, they must carry out the tasks imposed without protest. 29 soldiers carry out the duties of about 50 full-time equivalents. Military people have become accustomed to a lot of overtime over the years, and in general they complain very little about it. However, it should not be forgotten that the workload of the military has increased once again in the last year and a half. The workload of the military has reached an abnormally high level, with sometimes working weeks up to 80 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation has long since ceased to be temporary. On the legal level, ACV Defence notes that, as regards the organisation of working time in the public sector, Chapters 3 and 4 of the Law of 14 December 2000 do not apply to the military. On the other hand, the same law provides for the establishment of a KB with minimum requirements to ensure a level of protection equivalent to that of other workers. Despite this article in the law, we have to note that there is no KB that provides for an equivalent level of protection in terms of working time and rest time, as well as the night work of military personnel. That is why, in view of the high workload of the military at the moment and the fact that the situation has long ceased to be temporary, we are calling for the work of the Central Bank, as required by the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u219	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 76 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u220	In between, I will also give you the result of the vote on naturalisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u221	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2103/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2103/2) Number of votes 117 Number of voters Valid votes 117 Votes valables Perfect majority 59 Absolute majority All naturalisations have obtained the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u222	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u223	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u224	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u225	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on October 26, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 26 October 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 188/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière, Sébastian Pirlot and Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 188/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u226	Mr President, this motion asks the government to confirm its unilateral desire to increase the retirement age of the military, to involve the military unions fully in this decision and its implementation. She also asked whether the Government confirmed its unilateral desire to increase the retirement age of members, to take into account the hardship and particularities of the military career. Since this is a constructive and moderate motion, I have no doubt that all the democrats in this House will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u227	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u228	Yes 77 Ja No 57 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 134 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u229	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2062/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2062/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u230	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1918/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1918/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1919/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1919/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u232	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 122 Yes No. 0 Non Abstentions [[12]] Abstentions Totaal 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1930/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1930/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u233	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1999/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1999/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2017/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2017/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 123 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2020/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2020/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u236	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 122 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2021/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2021/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u237	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2053/ 2004) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2053/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u238	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2081/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2081/4) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u239	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. (2082/5) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck on article 4. (2082/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[14]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u240	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 99 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2082/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2082/6) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u241	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2096/2) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2096/2) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u242	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a clear step forward in assisting lawyers at a hearing. But the problem is the easing of the formalities surrounding the arrest warrant, since by reducing the penalties for non-compliance with these formalities, the bill, unfortunately, is only facilitating the use of the arrest warrant. However, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that pre-trial detention must remain an exceptional measure, especially in view of the overcrowding in prisons and the lamentable state of our prisons. In the end, the project is a significant step backwards. That is why we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u244	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2030/9) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2030/9) We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u245	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 131 Yes No. 1 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u246	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 128 Yes No. 1 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u247	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 131 Yes No. 1 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u248	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 122 Yes No. 0 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u249	Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-10-54-plenair-ip138x.u250	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 17 November 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 17 November 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 17 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
