ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that the Minister explain his note to the members of the Finance Committee on the state of recovery. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Deseyn will then be able to ask their questions, after which everyone will be given the opportunity to go into more detail during the exchange of views. Minister, you have sent us a note. There have been developments in this dossier in recent weeks and discussions with the European Commission have taken place. What does the government ultimately intend to do? Which companies are we talking about? What kind of rulings were made? What are the numbers? What are the possible solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u2	Mr President, as regards the state of affairs of the government, last Friday we decided to award a contract to law firms to accompany the Belgian State in the concrete steps that may be taken in the coming days and weeks. In the course of the week the decision will be taken on which law firm will be involved in what specific elements of the present problem. I am putting things in perspective again, and I agree with the questions that were asked and the additional questions. A total of 67 rulings were concluded under the regime of the famous Article 185, § 2. Of these 67 rulings, 25 were not applied by the companies for various reasons. Forty-two rulings were applied by 36 different companies, belonging to 35 multinational groups. These 36 companies have applied the regime which the European Commission is now saying is state aid. It is this State aid that will be the subject of a recovery procedure. The amounts reported in the media of 2 billion in taxable base and a tax advantage of 700 million are based on figures up to 2013. I have instructed the administration to also trace the figures for 2014. They are already partly available and, if desired, we can discuss them further. For about a third of the companies, with the larger ones in between, it would be rounded up to 445 million taxable bases. The figures are gross amounts, the taxable basis, and they will have to be examined on a case-by-case basis in order to determine whether they have not been taxed abroad. In order to assess whether de facto State aid has been granted, it will be necessary to examine at the same time whether the company cannot apply other deductions to the new tax base increased by adding the excess profit. It is clear that this is one of the essential points on which the entire legal debate will focus in the near future. To the extent that companies have deductible items, e.g. past losses transferred, they can be disposed of against the new and, of course, increased tax calculation basis, since the effect of the excess profit ruling is filtered out. In this way it is possible, by applying the ordinary deductions in the corporate tax return and by resurrecting that previously not applied deduction, that part of the new taxable basis derived from excess profits is not or is not immediately subject to tax. In those cases, therefore, State aid may be involved, since without the application of the excess profit exemption there would also have been no tax due. Since 3 February 2015, the date on which the European Commission formally announced that it would examine the excess profit rulings as a possible element of State aid, no rulings were granted nor renewed. In its decision of 11 January, the Commission demanded the restoration of the original situation and stated that, in order to calculate the State aid unduly granted, the comparison must be made between the tax actually paid and that which would have been paid had the general rules of application been used. In the present case, a new assessment of the tax obligations of those undertakings should be used for each year during which they benefited from that scheme. The European Commission stands out in order to define the method of calculation and recovery and to discuss it with the Belgian authorities during the recovery phase. Since it is an extremely complex matter to recalculate the entire tax calculation and there are several scenarios for this in the 36 cases that have just been mentioned, the negotiations with the Recovery Commission will mainly concern the principles to be applied in calculating the amount to be recovered. As I mentioned earlier, no new excess profit rulings were granted or renewed from 3 February 2015. The decision of the European Commission has now been taken. Of course, it means that the system ends with this. The European Commission's decision on this is very clear. For the companies that have an ongoing agreement, there is in the current state of affairs uncertainty about the system as long as the decision does not have the force of res judicata. Belgium will, of course, fully implement the European Commission's decision, subject to appeal, on which there is no final decision within the government. However, before 2015, companies have carried out their intercompany transactions on the basis of excess profit rulings and will apply the ruling in their interest as long as there is no court ruling on the Commission's decision. That is to prevent them from exercising their right if the European Court still destroys the Commission's decision. This was also agreed with the European Commission. As I have already mentioned, Belgium will take the necessary steps to deal with the company's declaration accordingly. Article 185 aims at resolving situations of double taxation by reviewing the Belgian taxable profit downwards in situations where profits are effectively taxed abroad. That's an OECD obligation. Article 185 should not be immediately repealed, in so far as the Commission does not condemn the article as such. Indeed, it is the association with the settlement agreements concluded by the Commission which it considers selective and which it describes as State aid. Since no further ruling has been granted, the problems of State aid no longer arise in the new cases. This is explicitly confirmed in footnote 114 of the European Commission's ruling, which is based on three concrete examples of rulings. Finally, with regard to the exchange of rulings, 22 rulings have so far been exchanged internationally with abroad. In that context, Belgium received one spontaneously published ruling and 13 foreign rulings sent on request. From 2016 Belgium will join the automatic exchange BEPS and in 2017 in the DAC3 directive of Europe. The exchange of rulings falls within the competence of the central services of the General Administration of Taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u3	I propose that we now give Mr Gilkinet and Mr Deseyn the opportunity to put their oral questions. After that, the other members will also be given speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u4	Mr. Chair, my intervention will be rather a reply because the minister's presentation responds in part to the questions I had tabled. You say that the system of excess profit rules has been put in place in order to avoid double taxation of companies, the fact that they are taxed twice. But, in fact, it's quite the opposite. You have organized the double non-taxation, that is, they are not taxed anywhere. Therefore, personally, even if this involves the Belgian State, I welcome the decision of the European Commission. It must encourage us to change the system, to correct it so that everyone pays the tax properly. As you say in your answer, it is multinational companies that benefit from the system and the actors in the real economy, SMEs and citizens are largely escaped. In the face of the attitude of the Belgian State, I wonder about the future. You say, on the one hand, that you are going to appoint a lawyer to defend us in this case. This means that you are still in the perspective of challenging the decision of the European Commission. On the other hand, you are in the process of initiating a tax recalculation for the companies concerned, saying that they could not benefit from the system of excess profit rules, since it is state aid, but that they could perhaps benefit from further tax reductions. As a result, this EUR 700 million differential identified by the European Commission may be less. Does this mean that you are going to recalculate the tax for the companies concerned and make them pay what they have to pay, i.e. more than what was foreseen with the system of excess profit rules but less than what the European Commission has determined in its calculation? Can you communicate to us, in full transparency, the names of the companies concerned and the amount of tax avoided? Compared to the discussions in the OECD and the European Parliament which aim to establish a country-by-country reporting of multinational companies, i.e. to ensure that they publish, in their annual report, the places where they have real economic activity, the number of jobs, the profits made, the taxes paid, it would be an act of positive transparency which would make it possible to clean up this system a little bit. As far as the rules are concerned, as you said, since the start of the European Commission's investigation, we have no longer issued new rules. But the rulings that had been previously granted by the Advance Rulings Service are valid for four years. What about companies that now have to file their 2015 corporate tax returns? Can they, yes or no, continue to benefit from the excess profit ruling? Do you consider that the rules are annulled by the decision of the European Commission or do you consider that they are still valid for one, two, three or four years depending on the date on which they were granted? In my view, the Belgian State should take a clear position on the matter and make it clear that the rules no longer apply. Otherwise, we would be in contradiction with the decision of the European Commission. You are also unclear as to the repeal of Article 185(2) of the Code. Indeed, you say that the problem is not the law, it is the rules. But the principle of ruling is enshrined in the law. The last paragraph of the law, which reads as follows: "Paragraph 1 (the one who organizes the excess profit ruling) shall apply by advance ruling without prejudice to the application (...)". The problem of the ruling, of the advance ruling, which is contested by the European Commission is enshrined in the law. In doing so, if the Commission's condemnation is to be properly addressed through Commissioner Vestager, it is very quickly necessary to adopt a law repealing Article 185(2) of the Code, which in itself includes the problem raised by the European Commission, since it gives an "opaque" advantage to certain market players. Finally, you said that 22 Belgian gulings had been sent abroad. Can you be more specific about this? Did this exchange take place at the request of foreign States? To which states have these rulings been transferred? Have any action been taken by the tax administrations concerned? What follow-up were reserved for the 14 rules from foreign states which Belgium received (one on a spontaneous basis, the other thirteen on request)? Were there any corporate tax adjustments that would have used rules abroad, as they could have done in Belgium to avoid paying taxes? Who is in charge of this follow-up? It seems to us that Belgium must give the signal that it wants to apply fair taxation, that all economic actors are subject to the same rules, and that there is no reason why multinational companies pay less tax than SMEs and artisans who pay their contributions properly. You must be the finance minister of all the economic actors instead of preferring, as your predecessors have done, some who do not always give Belgium financial and employment compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u5	Mr President, Minister, you have already answered some of my questions in your speech. You have inherited a debatable legal construction or fiction in this respect, with all the problems that this entails. The European Commission is very strict and that is understandable because it was not reported at the time. One of the cornerstones of the European free market and the maintenance of market distortion policy is that Member States are responsible for the implementation of the recovery of State aid. This is a very difficult situation for the current government. Your note states that you will work together with the European Commission to find a solution. This is a sign of goodwill, because this could be approached more radically. It is also said that consideration will be given to which principles can be put first. That's actually kind of cryptic. What principles should an agreement be reached on? Is it about practical modalities around certain financial volumes? Is it about time you can buy? Do we get extra time to investigate this? There is, of course, a great deal to be investigated, especially given the complexity of the fact that alternative tax regimes could lead to a similar advantage. There must also be a split-up, per company, of the part that is in the unconvicted mill and of the part that is included in the mechanism that is considered unacceptable by Europe. Quid with the disputes against the European Commission? Quid with the calculation at Belgian level? Did a split-up happen by company? Has the complex nature of the matter already been taken into account in the calculation? Moreover, there is an extension of the file by the 2014 set-offs or the taxable basis created at that time. After all, I believe that the figure of 700 million and the calculation run until 2013, but nothing precludes the full inclusion of 2014 data in the calculation. So I would have liked to have some explanation about the disputed years. Is there any agreement on the principles in this respect? You say that for the time being we will pretend that there is no air pollution, because otherwise we will not be able to benefit from a tax advantage, assuming that Europe does not condemn the system. It may then be assumed that the amount of 700 million will increase if the years 2014 and 2015 are also taken into account. I would have liked to have had some explanation. You say that you are still discussing with the Belgian Government whether an appeal procedure may be initiated. If this happens as in the case of the social dialogue, then perhaps you should not threaten the legal procedure immediately as long as the negotiations are going well. The question is whether, in view of the timetable of the negotiations, we still have time to negotiate this quietly. How much time do we have left? How much time does one have to decide whether to exclude a profession or not? Mr President, there are many questions to which we should be given answers in the context of parliamentary control, but without going into the confidential details of each undertaking. It is important for Parliament to know what stage we are currently in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u6	I propose that Members who wish to do so should now be allowed to make comments before the Minister responds. This is an exchange of views, in which we transcend the pattern of oral questions. Mr Gilkinet and Mr Deseyn have asked their questions. I note, however, that some of my fellow Members have comments at this stage of the discussion. After that, the Minister can provide a global response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u7	Mr. Chair, I apologize for my absence at the beginning of the meeting, but I had to ask the Minister of Mobility about the important RSP file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u9	We hope so! We want to believe it. You say you asked for the help of lawyers to support the Belgian State. But I would have wanted to know what limit. Is it to bring an action or to repeal the law? In the latter case, what about the current decisions? In view of all the promises made in terms of employment, is there any idea of the number of jobs that have been created? What is the relationship between tax loss and created items? This could influence a future decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u10	Minister, I would have liked a clarification of your position. You have given us an interesting note, but it does not remove all the doubts. Will you, on behalf of the government, bring an appeal against the Commission's decision? Do you intend to obtain reimbursement of illegal aid? On reading the note, it is felt that a procedure is in place to calculate what needs to be reimbursed. Initially, we thought that you wanted to prevent the recovery of the undue sums requested by the Commission. Are you working on a legislative amendment? In the text you have given us, you indicate that the article should not be immediately repealed. Okay, but does it have to be sooner or later? Will there be a rewrite of this text? How long? Finally, when we asked you in plenary, it seemed to me in your reply that you questioned the Commission's objectivity with regard to the Belgian situation and that of other countries. Do you continue to believe that the Commission has targeted Belgium or do you think that it has shown fair treatment in all the situations it has experienced?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u11	Thank you, Minister, also for the explanatory note. New is your announcement that last Friday the government initiated a procedure to appoint a lawyer. Is my impression that you have taken a clear option in the file and its follow-up? After all, I read the start of this appointment procedure as an announcement of an appeal against the European Commission. I remember another debate, Mr Van Rompuy, in the Seventh Day, in which you appealed as not only nonsense but also formally impossible. So I wonder what that appointment means. Does that also mean that you will go to the finish line and that you will actually carry out the appeal you speculated on earlier statements? How will that actually work? If you take all that option at this stage, I will be even more upset. In your written note, a number of elements suggest that this can be looked at. It seems to me to be the minimum minimum that we are considering to what extent we can recover some of the illegal state aid. If you do not do so, and if you choose an appeal procedure today, I think that is a blow to the face of anyone who pays his taxes in our country. I do not understand why parties who are party advocates of fiscal justice already approved the appointment of a lawyer last Friday. That's at least the cart for the horse. We have a different opinion on this than you, Minister. I would also like to question you about the exchanges that have already taken place. The good news, I would also like to say, is that you have caused a trend break. You were the one who fired the exchanges. What are the findings that you can provisionally make on the basis of the exchanged rulings? The numbers are listed in the note. Like Mr Dispa, I found your suggestion that the European Commission should not approach the issue in an impartial manner, quite punishment. Contrary to what you said about the tobin tax, Le Monde did not make it, but I wonder if you can make that statement clear. Is it based on the current exchanges? If you make such a statement about the work of the European Commission, then in principle it should be a certain basis. What legal adaptations and reforms do you plan? In what time do you plan it? Should we all look at them together, along with the proposal you launched last weekend? That is what was said in the government last Friday, as it does not seem, on the basis of the initial reactions, unless, of course, you can say otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification of the dossier. We must continue the discussion we have had in plenary. In my view, you have already made a start on this last weekend. The system was created, but collided with its limits. It's not the first time something like this has happened. We have also experienced this with the system of coordination centres. That was a good system, but the European Commission decided at the time that it had to be stopped without retroactive effect. In 2003 or 2004, we introduced the correct system of notional deductions. The system of excess profit rulings was the only way to keep a number of companies in this country. Now we must move towards a new system of taxation, as we said in plenary and as you have also mentioned, and towards a complete reform of our corporate tax system, which must be based on a complete equality between all forms of enterprise, both SMEs and multinationals. The current system must cease to exist and it must be possible to cycle to a reduced rate in corporation tax. The new system should be linked to the system of notional income deduction, with the aim of achieving the same result. The ultimate objective should be to make corporate tax, which raises around 13 to 14 billion a year to the State and is currently funded for a large part by SMEs, fairer, so that everyone is taxed according to the same system, i.e. a corporation tax with the notional interest deduction, but also with the addition of a wage mass component. It seems interesting to me to draw up this proposal. For example, the very large companies employing a large number of employees can in one way or another be rewarded for maintaining employment and paying decent wages to their workers and servants. I would like to give you this element in the debate, because we are now colliding with the limits of such a system. When we collide with the limits of the system, it means that we must somehow be able to settle the old system logically. Mr Calvo, the Minister is absolutely right to consult a lawyer and to examine the extent to which our Belgian State's commitments to the companies concerned can be met, without any damage to our image. A minister now has a much harder time negotiating with potential investors than several weeks or months ago. In this connection, I would suggest that you take note of the recent Belga reports, which state how difficult our minister had to defend our country in the American Chamber, in order to promote our country in the world. This is very difficult when the Minister is considered unreliable because of the fact that Europe is now calling back a system which has been in place for many years. We must therefore honour the system for companies and we must try to defend it with the European Commission. In doing so, we must also clarify to the European Commission that we no longer grant excess profit rulings, but that we must be able to keep up with the ongoing commitments. Hopes or dreams or even in the press suggesting that EUR 700 million can be recovered is totally out of the question. That is not the case, and we have already made that clear to you in plenary. The system must be phased out and stopped, and we must replace it with something that is again attractive to international companies, so that they stay here with their factories and decision centres. There lies the greatest work for the Minister. Our Committee on Finance will undoubtedly provide a helping hand in developing an attractive tax system that is equal for SMEs and multinationals and which links a low rate to the size of the company's own capital and the mass of wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u13	I'm bouncing on Mr. Van Biesen concerning the coordination centres which have been replaced by notional interests. Indeed, we are in the same case with the excess profit rulings. They have in fact replaced the ruling infocap, which was condemned, like the coordination centres, by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u14	(...) They said that the coordination centres had to stop but they did not say that the previous statements had to be recovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u15	The parallel that I wanted to establish is that the ruling infocap was condemned by the European Union and replaced by the excess profit ruling. Moreover, in reading the criticisms made by the European Commission on the latter, it must be noted that the application by the Advance Decisions Service of Article 185(2) is much closer to the nature of the ruling infocap as it previously operated than to what is written in this article. Therefore, my questions are as follows. What about the number of settlements concluded? You mention 67 of them, while the European Commission reports 54 excess profit rules for the period from 2005 to 2013. Is this differential due to the number of settlements concluded in 2014 and early 2015? If not, how many excess profits were granted or renewed between January 2014 and February 2015? Thirdly, your speech and your note were not very clear on several points. I note one in particular and quote you: "For companies that have an agreement in progress, things are not clear as far as the system is concerned, until the decision is made in res judicata. As far as the formal procedure is concerned, however, the FPS Finance will have to implement the decision at this stage." Could you explain that sentence to us? Can you tell us in concrete terms what this means for corporate tax returns that are made for both fiscal year 2015 and fiscal year 2016? The companies have already filed their returns for 2015, but these are currently being reviewed by the FPS Finance services. How, then, should they deal with the excess profit rules found in the declarations? For fiscal year 2016, what instructions are you going to give to the tax authorities for the returns in which there are excess profit rules? As regards the amounts, the figure of 700 million ends in 2013. Is this the amount achieved since the first profit ruling was granted, i.e. in 2005? What are the amounts of the excess profit rulings still granted in 2014 and 2015? You indicate that you instructed the administration to search for the numbers. When will we get the information? I am surprised not to find what about the excess profit ruling in the tax expenditure inventory. I can understand that for other rulings, but as far as the excess profit ruling is concerned, it was an article in the Income Tax Code. Why is it not found in the tax expenditure inventory? As regards the very content of the excess profit rules, you state that Article 185(2) should not be immediately repealed in so far as the Commission does not condemn the article as such. When you write this, are you not right when I said that the practice of the Advance Rulings Service is contrary to the very content of Article 185, § 2? Since Article 185(2) is not the problem, I conclude that it is the application of Article 185(2) by the Advance Rulings Service. Can you provide us with the text of these 36 rilings? It would be necessary in terms of transparency and democratic control to be able to verify the content of these texts, especially as regards the indirect reading of them in the work of the European Commission. One wonders, for example, to what extent these agreements are based on economic reality or whether they are completely virtual tax constructions. For example, there are reductions in taxable earnings of more than 50% and sometimes up to 90%. What reality is there behind this? On what basis have these agreements been concluded? Analysis of these rulings would help to determine whether there was any form of complacency on the part of the Advance Rulings Service. We could check whether all ethical rules have been respected. It is really useful to be able to analyse these texts which are not published. You know that despite the requirement for the Advance Rulings Service to publish the rules, this is not the case for the excess profit rules. I think that the House and our committee in particular should have these texts at their disposal in order to be able to analyse them with you and to put to you the various questions that need to be addressed. I would also like to know if you have any idea which intermediaries have financed these rulings for the recipient companies. It is said that big ovens have their entrances to 24 rue de la Loi. Is there any way of knowing which intermediaries have funded these rulings in the Advance Rulings Service? As regards the reimbursement of excess profit rules, I would like to join the colleagues who are asking you the question. What is the content of your speech and your note? Are you going to challenge the European decision or are you going to demand reimbursement from the recipient companies? The position you are taking is not clear at all. At first, you looked very offensive, here you seem to be a little back. What is your position? In the press this Saturday, you said: "It would be naive to believe that these multinationals will open their wallets and pay wisely. In their place, I wouldn't do it either." Minister, do you think it's the responsibility of a finance minister responsible for bringing money into the state's coffers to tell multinationals that you wouldn't do it either? "Nevertheless don't pay back. Above all, dispute the refund." I think this is a lack of responsibility on your part, minister. I find this quite challenging. You have told us several times that these multinationals will be able to say that there is a breach of contract on the part of Belgium. I believe that this is not correct in the sense that when rulings are rendered, the Advance Rulings Service sets out the conditions under which these rulings could apply. In particular, there is the fact that everything that has been planned, everything that has been negotiated, must be respected. In order for a ruling to be valid, it must comply with Belgian law – which, in my opinion, is not entirely the case – as well as European legislation. I therefore think that the multinationals were well aware, when they were notified of the ruling, that they were subject to compliance with European legislation. Now it turns out that this is not the case. This is simply the consequence of the conditions issued for this ruling to be valid. I don't think we can say there's a breach of contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your note. I'd like to begin with a general thought. I think that in the dictionary we will have to enter a new definition of the word "victim'. When I hear Mr Van Biesen here, multinationals who have enjoyed an over-profit rotation and, as a result, some of them are even 90% exempt from taxation, without the under-profit anywhere in the world being taxed, are victims. This comes from the mouth of a political and economic liberal and from the mouth of the minister, who is economically liberal. It is from their mouths that we must do everything we can to ensure that those poor companies, which have benefited from that 90% tax advantage, do not have to pay it. I am not getting enough in those centres, but if I listen to what Grete Remen and other SMEs are saying, I think they should be disgraced by the theories of liberals who make victims of companies that manage not to pay 50% to 90% of their taxes on their excess profits. That's what I'm talking about. We are told that we should be almost ashamed when we demand that they be repaid. I felt that the level playing field between large and small companies was also an essential requirement for a liberal in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u18	Mr Van Biesen, I did not interrupt you either. I know your creativity. You're one of the fathers of the new definition of victim. Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, there are two sentences here that I would like to highlight. On page 2, under the heading "Follow-up', second paragraph, we read: "Article 185 should not be immediately abolished by the Commission, since the Commission does not condemn this article as such. Indeed, it is the combination with the ruling agreements that the Commission considers to be selective and therefore State aid. Here I know for the first time in a note from the FPS Finance what I have always said, namely that the law in itself is not the problem but the application that is made of it. Now, if we're going to talk about the application of that law, maybe it's good to give a little history. This law, that article, was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 9 July 2004. On 1 January 2005, the autonomous ruling service became operational within Finance. However, there were no application for a ruling. On 13 April 2005, the named Bart Tommelein asked a question to the Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders. That question was whether rulings issued on the basis of Article 185 should be reported to the home state of the multinational. I'm gonna put it this way to keep it simple. In short, the answer of the Minister of Finance was no. A month after that answer, there was the first ruling. A total of 72 have come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u20	No. I'll translate it. The Big Four did not take action until they knew that the rulings would not be notified. That is why the European Commission is breaking it down, now that it has gone all the way. On the basis of the 2009 ruling service report, I had heard rumors about 20% to 30% exemption. That's what I heard. That went in the walkways. I never thought of 40 to 50 percent. On the basis of those 20 to 30 %, I said that the report says that the ruling committee was engaged in a dangerous game and that this could be regarded as illegal state aid. That's right. This has now turned out to be the case. Some companies are threatening to file damages claims. I'll give them the board: if they want to do that, they'll have to file a claim against those law firms and the Big Four. By the way, is that one of the reasons why a third of those rulings were never applied? I think that there are still people who thought it was too dangerous because it could be illegal state aid and who did not apply a ruling. That is one of the remarkable figures given by the Minister. The Big Four knows better than anyone that they would not charge their clients with any risk of illegal state aid if it had been notified to the Commission. This is settled case-law of the European Court of Justice. As a company, one can only be 100% sure that what one gets from a government cannot be regarded as illegal state aid if this has been notified. This is true of pure state aid. If this were applied to the rulings, the notification of rulings in the home states of multinationals would have saved us from the Commission's classification of the current rulings as illegal. Legally, we cannot hold Mr Tommelein and Mr Reynders responsible for this, but they are politically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u21	Mr Van der Maelen, who explained that system in the ruling committee? Who defended that 90%? Surely the ones you appointed to the ruling committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u22	I know where you're going with this. You're changing the subject. Don't tell me the Minister of Finance himself didn't know that the companies were at risk. Don't tell me that at the Ministry of Finance there is no one who knows the established case law of the Court of Justice and who knows that this has to be notified if they want to protect companies from the risk of state aid which is considered illegal state aid. None of that happened. I come to the third point in my speech. After going through the note, as mentioned by a previous speaker, it is not quite clear to me what the position is now. What I do notice is that the punitive statements of 14 days and three weeks ago, namely that you would do everything you could to ensure that the companies did not have to pay back and that the European Commission had decided, but that you would first negotiate with them and then see, are not at all correct. After all, I read in the note that the recovery procedure is being initiated. Mr Minister, perhaps I am wrong, and I will be glad to hear it from you, but my interpretation is that, in order to save your face and furniture, you will start another procedure and appoint a lawyer. However, you know that Belgium has no leg to stand on. The amounts will have to be recovered. And if we do not ask for that money back from the companies, think of Spain that in 2014 the European Commission imposed a fine of EUR 30 million, it will come from the Belgian state treasury. So, after reading the note, Minister, I understand that you have come to the conclusion that you need to start the procedure. I have also noticed that you are going to talk to the companies, to see how much you will recover. You have a certain reasoning. I try to imagine them simply: you pretend that you did not get the excess profit rotation and you look at other existing deductions, which you want to reduce the taxable base. Mr Minister, on the basis of which article of the tax code will you do that? I'm not a specialist in the matter, but as far as I know, if I forgot to deduct my living bonus in 2010, 2011 and 2012, I shouldn't try to recover it for those years in 2016, because that's not possible. So I ask you again, on the basis of which article of the law will you implement what has been explained in your note? Then, Minister, I see your note partly as an answer to the questions I tabled fourteen days ago. So I find an answer to some of those questions, but I don't get an answer to the question of how many overprofits were delivered between October 2014 and 3 February 2015. I may be mistaken, but so is De Standaard, because I read that in that period at least an excess of profit was delivered to your board. Is that information from De Standaard correct? Are we talking about one surplus or more? I received an answer to four of my five questions, but it strikes me that I did not receive an answer to this question. 25 rulings were not applied. I think that's pretty high. I gave a clue earlier about the explanation for that, but maybe I'm wrong. Hence my question. Does the same percentage also apply to rulings in other sectors? Am I mistaken if I think that's a high grade? Of a total of around 75 rulings based on one article, 25 are never used. We all know that it is a fairly long and expensive procedure. If a company does this, one already gets an indication in advance of the direction the ruling will take. If we go through the procedure to the end, it strikes me that 25 companies have decided not to use it. Why? What about in other sectors where there are rulings? Is it more likely that more than one third of the rulings requested will not be used? Finally, I heard your reaction last weekend. You said that you continue to believe the need for fiscal competition within the European Union. Mr Van Biesen is already nodding, so the political-economic liberal once again agrees with an economic liberal. There is therefore no question of fiscal harmonisation, at most perhaps of a common basis. However, there is no question of tariffs at all. I want to tell you that you're on the losing side. You are placing societies in the losing camp in different European countries. We all know that the much sought-after and renowned fiscal competition has led to a huge fall in company taxation in the European Union, but in the countries with a high welfare state this had to be compensated by high taxes on wages and bets. That may be a path that this majority and this minister want to follow, but it is a path that we Socialists do not want to follow. We are in favour of a European tax harmonization, both for the bases and for the rates. We believe that the downward pressure placed on the tax revenues of the Member States by making tax competition take the wrong course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u23	Mr Minister, I would like to ask a few more questions. Firstly, in line with what Mr Van der Maelen said, I welcome this discussion on the excess profit rulings, which have been condemned by the Commission. With the working group, we went to the European Parliament twice, at the time under Luxembourg's Presidency, to say that we were totally behind BEPS. We also supported the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, where the profits of companies are calculated in the same way. We need a consolidated corporate tax base for multinational companies. We have all advocated this. The problem is that a number of systems are now being called into question with retroactive effect. I believe, like you, that this system is over; it is over. I am pleased about that, too. The niche policy that some countries are pursuing is, after all, detrimental. For months, in a different context, we have talked about LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks and so on. We asked for information and transparency about the rulings, across borders. This discussion about excess profit rulings also fits in with that global and European movement. The next question arises. Once the tax base has been unified, do we still have to argue for competition between Member States in terms of tariffs? This brings us to the debate that took place last weekend on whether our rates are too high and whether these rates apply to multinationals or SMEs. These discussions can be held, but I think the broad lines are important. I come to a second point. In 2005, the Belgian State made a mistake not to notify that measure to the European Commission. I have already read some legal arguments about this. This error makes it easy for companies to bring an action against the Belgian State, since the companies negotiated in good faith, whereas the State did not report it to Europe. If, therefore, the companies fail to notify the Belgian State, they have a point in that regard. Legally, that's how it works. I do not think there will be much discussion as to whether we should recover. The question is whether this can happen retroactively, without having to bear the consequences themselves. I think it's a good thing you're taking on a lawyer for that. After all, I have already read several articles from tax experts on this subject. That needs to be cleared up legally. It seems to me that, although I am not a lawyer, achieving a story at the European Commission is excluded, because the Belgian State has gone wrong by never reporting that measure. On the other hand, however, we must see how we can recover. The decision of the European Commission means that the Belgian State must decide for itself which companies have benefited from the unlawful tax regime and how many taxes must be recovered. The European Commission therefore decides that the Belgian State must do so itself. So, Minister, I understand what you said in your introduction. What is the new, by adding the excess profit taxable basis? Which deductions can be used against the new tax base? If there had been no excess profit rulings, what deductions could or could not have been made by the companies in that case? I'm resuming it now, because of course it's a little more complicated. In my view, it is a task for lawyers and specialists to verify that. We cannot simply impose the 700 million on companies. We cannot do that simply because they will say that this has never been notified and they will go to the Court of Justice. Moreover, if you read the decision of the European Commission, the scale of these amounts may still be contested. I call for dialogue with these companies. If we can talk to them, it is still the best option for the Belgian State, because these companies can otherwise go to the Court of Justice. The question is whether they can be right there, but I think it is important that the government should be able to ignore this recovery directly with those companies. Minister, I think that you have drawn far too quick conclusions from a process that is still under way over the weekend. I refer to the statements you have developed on a rate of 20% or 25% and on abolishing all subtractions. Does that apply to multinationals and SMEs? What is meant by abolishing the subtractions? What are the budgetary consequences? You are announcing such an important reform, without Parliament knowing what type of corporation tax you are talking about for the post-excess profit period. I hear you talking about rates and subtractions. I read today that a reduction of these rates to 20% or 25%, the SMEs of these rates to EUR 100 million and the multinationals will benefit more than 3 billion. Launching such matters in the wake of a discussion without us knowing what you and the government mean by that, I find it very dangerous. Finally, we must also be careful not to have negative promotion for our country. You say that we must have an alternative within six months at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u25	Minister, you say that we must have an alternative within six months at the latest, because otherwise Belgium will be seen as a country which is not tax-friendly for multinationals. I think this is being launched far too quickly without knowing exactly what the content is, but that is my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u26	Mr President, the system is clearly coming to an end, and we know that by now. It's normal for this to happen. However, I have the impression that some people really underestimate the effect of retroactivity on this issue when one not only ends the system.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I believe that some people are seriously underestimating the proceeds of recovery, but seriously underestimating the negative effects of such recovery, of this retroactivity, in terms of legal certainty and our investment climate. There are still a number of oddities. What I have just heard here, including Mr Van der Maelen, is almost shocking. When people say that we want not only the same basis of taxation everywhere in Europe, but also the same rate, for the highest possible yield, they simply say: away with competition. For me, competition means striving for the best service at the lowest price. The conclusion of your story is the opposite, the highest price and hopefully we will see something of service. I can assure you that I do not really have the best view of socialist countries in this area. The service there is not always the best, the price is only too well known. So I think it's important to keep that competition for a while. We must continue to ensure effectively that governments provide a good service at the lowest price. As a country, we must not throw our appeal too gibberish. We are a small country with little economies of scale and a very open economy. I believe that we should be careful to maintain our attraction to large companies, while at the same time providing a much better service for SMEs at a much lower price. That's the trajectory we need to work on. That is the opposite of what Mr Van der Maelen stands for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u27	A lot of questions and reservations have been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the President, who points out the failure of niche policy. With some sense of minimal exaggeration, we can indeed put it this way. It is now clear that this type of policy, which is based on all kinds of motives for doing all kinds of specific target-oriented business, especially with Europe's attitude at the moment, is no longer feasible. I am always happy to listen to your history lessons, Mr Van der Maelen. At the same time, I have to say that his party was of course always actively involved in this. In 2004, in 2005 and in the years after. So history remains relevant, but also specific and politically charged. With regard to the comments on law firms, or a law firm or, more generally, assistance in this area, there are a whole series of reasons why there is certainly at present a need for such assistance. If we read the whole decision of the European Commission legally, we are obviously talking about top-level legal technology, if I may put it this way, then there are a lot of uncertainties or matters that need to be cleared up legally. This means that a responsible minister is obliged to call for super-professional assistance, which, moreover, is being done within the framework of the Council of Ministers. In the same context, it should not be surprising that the companies concerned are, of course, also engaged in intensive legal discussions. The chairman of this committee referred to what has already gone wrong at the source with regard to that claim. Of course, the companies are also aware of this. We can only deal with the issue legally in a responsible manner if we can also respond in a legally responsible manner to what is coming to us from the companies concerned. In this context, too, it remains, of course, an open question whether, in the context of this whole legal debate, I shall come back to specific aspects of this matter in a moment, whether or not there should be an appeal. The government has not made a decision. This depends, among other things, on the results of the ongoing legal analyses, which will continue to intensify in the coming weeks. I know that lists of companies are circulating, at least that has happened outside our control. The mere disclosure of the names of these companies is not evident, to put it mildly, because there are still a number of uncertainties. In the meantime, should it become apparent that a company would still have a zero balance in this respect, it has already been found that this company would have a purely nominating amount of any other amount. It can't be. Today, the excess profit rulings for the companies are still legally in force. There is no suspensive effect until the date on 22 March that that decision of the European Commission becomes effective in law. From a legal point of view, the companies concerned can only take the view that the excess profit ruling is still in force. In relation to the legal approach of the whole, which has come back several times, it is obvious that a distinction should be made between the excess profit rulings as a system and the demand for recovery. As far as the first is concerned, there can be no longer any discussion: this regulation of the European Commission is the end of this system. However, there are clearly different opinions on this matter, as is the case with the question of recovery, recovery and recovery, which is in fact entirely in line with the competences of Europe in this area. In any event, it concerns the termination of a contract between the Belgian State and the undertakings concerned. It creates a piece of legal uncertainty and, in any case, has a negative impact on our investment climate, which we, as a small, open economy, cannot just ignore. I can only note that only Belgium is currently targeted, whereas there are identical systems in other countries. Mrs. Vestager told us floor to other files. At present, however, Belgium is the target of this system. I repeat that other countries have identical systems. It remains to be seen whether the European gaze will also go towards other countries or not. I ask the question, no more, no less. As far as the number of jobs is concerned, I can only say that the 36 enterprises concerned provide more than 14 000 jobs in total. Indeed, in October 2014, one more ruling was allowed, which, of course, had been in the pipeline for quite some time and was granted by the ruling committee in the course of October. I don't have the exact date. There's also some confusion about the 700 million. That is the taxable basis until 2013. This does not apply year by year. This is the cumulative sum up to 2013. For Article 185, I would like to quote from the text of the European Commission: "The Commission notes that Belgium has provided three examples of rulings under Article 185 (2) which are indeed intended to resolve actual situations of double taxation. However, those rulings are clearly different from the rulings granting the excess profit exemption. The differentiated interpretation of Article 185 is clear from this and therefore only makes me repeat what I said earlier. For the record, let me repeat it clearly. Article 185 should not be immediately repealed, as the Commission does not condemn it as such. Indeed, it is the association with the settlement agreements concluded which the Commission considers selective and which it describes as State aid. Since no settlement agreement has been granted, the problem of State aid is no longer present in the new cases. That is clear, and that answers the questions about Article 185. In the meantime, it is clear that SMEs have also expressed their opposition to this system. I hear that every day. However, I also hear from them that they make a very clear distinction between, on the one hand, the system itself and, on the other hand, the fact that recovery is being carried out. The latter means, in other words, breach of contract and creating legal uncertainty. In contrast to other voices, I must honestly confess that I have not heard any SME representatives say that this should be done. I hear SMEs explain that the excess profit ruling as a system can no longer and has never actually been able to do so. However, they also note that the transition to recovery creates an atmosphere of legal uncertainty, for which SMEs are absolutely not asking parties. Indeed, 24 to 25 rulings have not been included in the course of time. The two main reasons for this are, firstly, very simple that the project on which the ruling is based has not continued and, secondly, that for the company in question losses have manifested themselves during the years in question, which obviously did not concern the application of an excess profit ruling. These are generally the two main reasons why 25 excess profit rulings have never been applied effectively. It is now clear that we have a problem in terms of fiscal competitiveness, both in the European and in the global context. I have taken note of the creative ideas put forward by Mr Van Biesen in this area. We must indeed have clear, transparent and generally applicable systems. It is also very useful to enter into this discussion, for example in the context of budgetary control. After all, the link between that lack of fiscal competitiveness and the budget is obvious. Those who are insufficiently fiscally competitive in a European context will have less domestic and foreign investment, will have less economic activity and will have less job creation. In that case, we will inevitably find ourselves in a path in which the budgetary consequences of this will also be real and substantial. So that's one whole. There is absolutely no point in seeing these things apart from each other. They form a whole. Those who say a must also say b, c, d, e and f. In Europe, it is clear that, on the one hand, the debate on harmonisation and, on the other hand, the debate on transparency is taking place. As far as transparency is concerned, there is no discussion whatsoever for me. The farther, the better. As far as harmonization is concerned, I can only say that there is a very clear dividing line between the large and the small countries. I have few small countries on the barricade for tax harmonization. The big countries do. The reason is quite obvious. If all the other elements are the same, including tax conditions, foreign investors will almost always opt for larger countries for the simple reason that they underestimate that not in the investment calculation of large companies that the scale advantage of being present in larger countries is a real fact. The European discussions show that it is very important for small countries to retain the opportunities, as transparently as possible, to compensate for the inherent disadvantage of their small scale in tax matters. I think it is very important in the case of Belgium to continue to take this point. We are not Germany, we are not France, we are Belgium; we have much to offer, but we must ensure that we also have something to offer in the tax field to compensate for our intrinsic disadvantage. Finally, the potential costs and revenues of such measures are difficult to estimate. Of course, a number of calculations can be made, but one will always have to take into account the changes in behaviour due to changes in the tax environment or in the tax environment. In this respect, I always refer to a very concrete, practical, verifiable example of the past, when in the Flemish Government the inheritance duties were reduced. Then, contrary to what many of the rooftops were shouting, we suddenly saw a sharp increase in income. This matter is important. This issue is also very important for the citizen, his job and everything related to it. I think it is indeed a matter of rapid reaction, now that it is clear that we have lost something, perhaps some of it is justified. In any case, we do not have too much time to put things in order in terms of fiscal competitiveness in the area of corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u29	Minister, this is too important for the misunderstanding to survive. The appointment of an attorney doesn't mean that you've already been elected to an appeal. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u30	No, I didn't. For the record, that option is still being discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u31	Since that option is still under discussion, I would urge your coalition partners not to choose that option, especially in an initial phase. The minimum minimorum seems to me to be thoroughly and seriously more serious than the impression you have given. I agree that such an investigation is not easy. It has just been suggested that some fellow Members would claim that it is easy and that it is just a matter of urgency. Of course, that is not the case. However, I cannot accept that you would already indicate that you would not begin that investigation. Your first statements are quite similar and the appointment of a lawyer seemed to be a turn of events in that direction. I am therefore pleased that you say today that this option has not yet been chosen. Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Deseyn, I am sorry to address you, but it makes sense for me to do so, because you are a small beacon of hope, although you have often disappointed us in that regard. I would also like to ask you to investigate what is recoverable or non-refundable. Minister, I also understand that there is a degree of diplomacy in your job and that you are therefore reluctant to talk about other Member States and similar systems. Of course, you have been looking for questions about this. You said here in the Chamber that the European Commission is not objective in this respect. Today you cannot or do not wish to make that statement clear, and I find that problematic. You can use the support of our committee to fight against the lack of objectivity, but if you say a, you must also say b, I think. That is why you are giving too little text and explanation today. I would like to ask you whether or not you are taking initiatives in this area if you think there are grounds for doing so. Finally, I would like to return to last weekend's discussion. You have suggested that there are political groups and fellow Members for whom public debt and the budget are not so important. That got on my nerves, which is why I wanted to react immediately. After all, what you did on the weekends does not immediately show great concern for the figures and budgetary orthodoxy. The proposal you have put forward, according to the Supreme Court of Finance, is cost-effective. A minister who says on the weekend that he rose up in the morning with an idea of corporation tax costing 3.5 billion is not credible when he warns someone that he is seriously working on the budget the next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u32	Why don't you tell me what specific proposal I made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u33	After all, you have proposed to work with two rates side by side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u34	That's not very specific. There's a lot of ways to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u35	That's a pretty concrete scenario, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u36	And you've been able to calculate that that costs 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u37	No, I referred to a study by the Supreme Court of Finance on a dual rate, which says the cost is 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u38	From what I have put on the table, there is no way to calculate that it will cost 3.5 billion, 7 billion or perhaps nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u39	In fact, you acknowledge that your proposal has not been quantified at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u40	I have simply called for greater attention to be paid to this tax. There are many slopes possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u41	I'm getting to the point. I regret that an important debate such as that on corporate taxation is being approached in such a nonchalant manner. We have already talked a lot about fiscal reform, and following on from your policy paper in the next room, I have asked you the question when you would tackle corporate tax. Is that right or is that wrong? You said you wanted to think about that. Last week, I asked you whether or not we could begin with the reform of corporate tax, as there are more and more votes in favour of it. You gave a half-hearted answer to that. Last Saturday you launched a balloon in the newspaper, which was in no way discussed in the government, about taxes that every company in our country has to deal with! I don't think that's serious! I believe that the reform of corporate taxation needs to be tackled in a serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u42	When you said that corporate tax should be dealt with, did you make it concrete? You have just said that corporate taxation needs to be reformed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u43	I have indicated that it should be much simpler for Green and that the gap should be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u44	How, simpler? How are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u45	The rift must be closed...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u46	How much simpler? How are you gonna do that? Will you give me a concrete answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u47	If you would like to use me as an advisor, with pleasure, I will pass on my availability to your cabinet for the next few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u48	You can explain this to me in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u49	I'd love to come by. I'll finish my reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u50	Let's make an appointment. But be specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u51	I'd love to come by. I'll finish my reasoning. I'm going to outline last week's situation. Last Tuesday you do not answer in committee, but last Saturday you launch a balloon. If the Minister of Finance is talking about corporate taxation, it has some relevance. I am sorry that we have been put into a state war immediately. I understand the budgetary concerns of Minister Peeters very well, but I do not understand that Minister Peeters is closing the door to corporate tax reform. I want that reform to happen. I want the debate to be conducted in a serious manner and I invite you to do so. Last weekend, you took a false start in that respect, but if you would like to get back on your feet, I would be happy to invite you to do so. You say you're linking it to budgetary control. I doubt that's the best link. In any case, I hope that, within the framework of our committee, we will be able to find the necessary time for the reform of corporate taxation, because that seems to me to be absolutely a yard for the year 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u52	Mr President, Minister, there is no decision on an appeal by the Belgian State. Personally, I advise you not to bring an appeal but rather to take note of the decision and adapt our tax systems to this decision. As you said, this is the end of the system of excess profit rules. We should not invent anything else tomorrow, as we have done too often in the past, by replacing coordination centres with notional interests and other systems. Let's stop this logic of flight forward! Rather, we need fiscal disarmament. It is necessary to seek harmonisation at European level and to focus on competitiveness not on tax advantages which disproportionately favour some players to the detriment of others but rather on training, on areas of specialization. We must not destroy the economy, we must strengthen it, Mr Van Biesen. On the other hand, there are problems in tax matters that must be brought to an end. I mean, some systems are overly benefiting a few players who do not want to disinvest our country when they find it better elsewhere. We have nothing to gain from working this way. As far as transparency is concerned, you say that it is not obvious to communicate about companies that have obtained an excess profit ruling, but you present yourself as a defender of transparency at European level, which I appreciate. It is for me the best remedy for this logic of tax competition and tax evasion. I would like Belgium to be at the forefront in this area. As far as the reimbursement of illegal tax aid is concerned, as Europe says, there is a real risk that contractual relations will be undermined. But I would like to highlight another risk, namely that citizens and businesses will no longer have confidence in our tax system, noting that there are such different treatments. Tax impunity for those who fraud or overly avoid contributing to the cost of society leads to behaviors that are the least citizens with regard to taxation. In the end, we find ourselves with problematic deficits for the state and for all the functions it has to implement. I believe that not total but progressive harmonisation, both fiscally and at European level, would be the best way to get out of this situation, which benefits only a few, disproportionately. Thirty-five companies have been able to avoid the tax on 2.5 billion profits since the introduction of the surplus profit ruling. They would have to create a few tens of thousands of jobs to repay this gift to the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u53	Mr. Minister of Finance, I would like to remind you of your position. The function of a Minister of Finance is to bring money into the state coffers. It's not about getting money into multinationals' coffers. I don't know if we made it clear when we gave you the job. I feel like you're a little confusing the roles! When I heard you this weekend, I thought you were not up to the expectations of a finance minister, in this case bringing money back into the state coffers. I take that from your statement on the two tax systems, which includes either the notional and other interest, or 20% of ISOC, and also from your statement that "instead of multinationals, you would do the same." It is an appeal to multinationals to challenge the decision knowing that they will have your support. This is totally irresponsible for our country's public finances, Minister. I come to the European decision. You will not dispute that the system of excess profit rulings is buried. This is not the first time that Belgium has been condemned by Europe for this system, but the second time. As I said, there was the ruling infocap system, which, as I read in the European Commission's documents, had exactly the same principle. In disguise, a piece of legislation, Article 185(2), was produced, but we did exactly what we did before with the ruling infocap, although it has already been condemned by the European Commission. Secondly, it is state aid. The European Commission's demonstration is clear. State aid is repayable. I think the statute of limitations is ten years. That is the rule in all cases, and I do not see how you will be able to influence this decision. I feel like it's about gestures. What impact will this have on public finances? That's still the question, and you don't seem to care. Last but not least, Minister, I asked you earlier, and you did not answer, to provide us with the texts of those 67 rules that were concluded with these multinationals. What's at stake? The issue is whether the practice of the Advance Rulings Service is correct, whether we can still have confidence in how this Service works. It is clear from the texts of the European Commission that the practice of ruling, in any case in the matter of excess profit ruling, is contrary to Article 185(2) of the Law. The level of exemption granted under the excess profit ruling is sometimes 90% of the profit exemption. One can only conclude that it is not a clear, transparent and the same system for everyone. We feel like it's custom-made. I think it is necessary to be able to analyse these tax agreements in order to understand the practice of the Advance Rulings Service. This is at stake for the future, because even if we put an end to the excess profit rules, other rules will always be applied. If the Service is not sure and is tailor-made, you must be able to question the way it works or even the existence of the rulings. It is not normal for this country to be tax-ready for an ordinary taxpayer, everyone being taxed at the highest rate, while for a few multinationals, it is a custom-made tax measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u54	Mr President, I will try again. I am addressing the political and economic liberals and an economic liberal: stop! According to what I understand, colleague Van Biesen has creative ideas. Beware of it, ladies and gentlemen, if Luk Van Biesen has creative ideas about taxation, because they are expensive ideas! Like the President, I have also read that the Minister is proposing a dual system of 20% or 25%. As Mr Calvo has said, this is totally irresponsible in budgetary terms. May I remind my fellow Members that we still have a 6 billion hole to close because of the tax shift? An additional gap is being struck, according to figures from the Supreme Court of Finance, amounting to 3.5 billion and a further 1 billion has to be found in the framework of budgetary control in March. So stop these budgetary adventures in which you want to land our country. My ears are ringing. I do not know if you know, ladies and gentlemen, but a study was published by the European Commission in December. That is not the study service of the sp.a., of the Green or of the PTB. The European Commission's study is Study on structures of aggressive tax planning and indicators. There is a page showing the ranking of the countries where the boulevards are open to tax avoidance by multinational companies. Who's on one? Our neighbors, Holland. But who's on 2? Belgium. Belgium is a paradise for tax avoidance!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u55	Twenty years of socialism. Twenty years in power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u56	Belgium is a paradise for multinationals and tax avoidance. So it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for you to stop creating new boulevards. If you do not do it yourself, the European Commission will oblige you to do so. After all, this is a study by the European Commission. Stop making illusions about new systems or creative ideas of Luk Van Biesen, or about priceless fantasies of a dual tax with a corporation tax of 20 % or 25 %. You can't afford this. If you do not do it yourself, Europe will oblige you to limit the avoidance efforts that are larger, wider and easier to ride in Belgium than almost anywhere else in the European Union. Mr President, since 1985 the importance of taxation for a small country on attraction to international establishments has fallen considerably. Since then, we have had something called the internal market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u57	Minister, we did not get much more information than the note. You're waiting for this advice from the lawyers. Do you have any idea the calendar? Can we hope to receive this notice, because we still don't know if you're going to ask for a recovery or not? In your presentation on the terms of the recovery requirement, you asked yourself whether we were within the competence of the European bodies. What do you mean by that? I didn't understand what you're referring to. So, could you clarify that notion to me? In addition, you mentioned maximum transparency at the level of the rulings. Of course, we agree with you. We would like to remind you that we have tabled a text on this subject, which is in favour of full transparency both of the rules requested and granted and of the rules refused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u58	Minister, we understand and measure your embarrassment in this matter. In some respects, I find that your caution is legitimate, particularly as regards the appropriateness of a remedy and the need for legal assistance to produce a legal analysis. This is quite normal, since the question of retroactivity is not simple, especially since we can ask ourselves whether the Belgian State is not somewhat at fault. It would have been better to notify this aid scheme from the outset rather than playing in the shadows. So we are caught up in our own shortcomings. I also welcome your caution with regard to the Commission, because - in asking you about fair treatment - you have been more measured than in plenary. That seems to me to be quite legitimate. You've been more insidious before. However, if I can agree on this, I remain very dubious in view of your delays or, at least, what I interpret as such. I am thinking of the question of the recovery of the industrialists. I recognise the legal aspects, but the pressure from the European Commission will be such that you cannot do anything other than initiate these procedures, even if the beneficiaries challenge them. Perhaps this will be settled in the courts. In any case, sooner or later, the Belgian State will have to activate the recovery of these illegitimate sums. I have also found it unclear what your statements are about the legislative changes that will or will not be necessary. You're taking a somewhat tempting position, so I guess we'll have an opportunity to get back to it. On the other hand, I find it difficult to follow you on a particular point and I will read your statements on this because I have the impression that the beginning of your speech contradicts its end. You started by saying that the Commission's decision puts an end to a fiscal niche policy and I think that is what is at stake. You then finished by making a plea for tax competitiveness, explaining that for small states in particular, there was a need to maintain tax attractiveness. In other words, you plead for the continuation or resurgence of these tax niches because you think that it is in them that small states like Belgium are saved. I cannot agree with you on this point. I am certainly in favour of transparency, but I believe that you are wrong in saying no to harmonisation. On the contrary, I plead for a tax system that is transparent, harmonised between multinationals and SMEs, as well as between companies operating on European territory. This would make the situation clearer and allow each other to stand out on competitive advantages, without however playing on this fiscal competitiveness which, on the contrary, induces a negative spiral and pulls each actor involved down. This competitiveness undermines Member States' budgetary interests and fiscal fairness. I am not sure that this really benefits our economies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic328x.u59	I thank everyone for their reservations. It was two interesting exchanges of views, about the tobin tax and the excess profit rulings. These discussions will undoubtedly continue. I therefore expect suggestions from this committee to look at how we are going to proceed. It is 5.30 p.m., and I propose that the third item on the agenda for today's sitting should be discussed at a forthcoming meeting.
