ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the first question is already in March. At the time, you met with your Foreign Affairs colleague, the Foreign Minister of Burundi. The situation in Burundi is well known and remains of great concern. In March, the European Union announced the suspension of any direct aid to the Burundian government. Minister, can you tell us more about the content of the meeting? Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Burundi addressed any specific requests to you? And, conversely, have you made specific requests to the Burundian Foreign Minister? Did you discuss with him this suspension of direct European aid to the Burundian government under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement? My second question concerns another decision by the European Commission and is related to the complicated situation in Burundi. The European Commission has announced an additional €10 million in humanitarian aid to help the population in exile. It is known that many Burundian refugees are in the neighbouring countries in very complicated situations. It is estimated that more than 260,000 Burundians have had to flee the violence and that more people have to flee the violence every day. The humanitarian situation of these populations is increasingly worrying. The capacity of neighbouring countries is being used to the maximum, creating tensions in some countries, such as Tanzania. Minister, can you tell me how much Belgium has provided for the improvement of the living conditions of Burundians who have taken refuge in these neighbouring countries? Can you tell me whether Belgium also intends to release additional humanitarian aid in view of the length of the crisis and the urgency of the humanitarian situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u2	Mr Crusnière, thank you for your questions. First of all, to be precise, I met Minister Nyamitwe, as Mr Reynders did, but we met him separately. My Burundian colleague regretted the adoption of measures relating to Article 96. He made the usual statement of the authorities on the situation in Burundi. He said security had improved. He condemned Rwanda's instrumentalization of refugees. He indicated that the institutions were functioning properly in Burundi. For my part, I have repeated Belgium's positions on Burundi. I have indicated that Belgium shares the European Union's analysis of Article 96. I have re-explained the measures I have decided to take for Belgian government cooperation with Burundi. I said that Belgium denounced all forms of violence and supported an inclusive dialogue to find a political solution to the crisis. I have made explicit reference to the Arusha Agreement, to the philosophy of power-sharing advocated by this agreement, and to the need for the authorities to open up political space. I added that Belgium respects Burundi's sovereignty, but that it is also sovereign in its options to support or not a government whose legitimacy raises questions for the international community. I concluded, recalling the importance of inclusive dialogue without preconditions, that Belgium regretted the government's lack of will to find a solution and that our country was prepared to support any concrete solution aimed at ending the crisis. In a letter dated 4 May 2016 addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the International Cooperation of Burundi, I confirmed the Belgian Government's position on government cooperation with the Republic of Burundi. Belgium maintains the suspension of projects for paving, supporting Burundi's justice system and supporting governance. Programmes in the sector of concentration (agriculture, education and health) are not suspended as such, but are reoriented towards activities that directly target the population. On the other hand, institutional support for ministries and other public institutions in this sector of concentration remains suspended, as well as delegated cooperation budgets through a United Nations Development Programme or the World Bank. The budgets concerned by these various suspension measures currently amount to EUR 35 million. The Belgian measures therefore have only one objective: to encourage the Government of Burundi to do everything necessary to get out of the current crisis. This reorientation of Belgian government cooperation does not therefore constitute an abolition of Belgian aid to Burundi. Most of our programmes and projects are not, at this stage, definitively stopped, but are suspended. They will either be reinvigorated or finally decided on the basis of political developments in Burundi. This brings me to your second, more refugee-oriented question. Belgium and our embassy in Bujumbura are following the refugee situation very closely. Since the beginning of the crisis, more than a quarter of a million Burundians, more than half of whom are children, have left their homes and fled to five neighbouring countries where they have found refuge. There are an estimated 70,000 internally displaced persons; 70 per cent of them live in foster families. For 2016, I have planned several funding to meet the growing humanitarian needs in Burundi and neighbouring countries. Our country has launched a €7 million call for projects for humanitarian NGOs active in the Great Lakes region. In view of the most important needs identified by the Burundi 2016 humanitarian response plan, the call aims to support actions in the following sector, in Burundi and in neighbouring countries affected by this regional crisis: the protection of people affected by the crisis, especially children; access to basic health and the quality of health care; and the strengthening of the water and sanitation sector. Several NGOs responded to this call by proposing projects targeting internally displaced populations and Burundian refugees in neighbouring countries. Projects will be selected during the month of June. The above-mentioned call for projects is not the only humanitarian funding for the crisis in Burundi. In order to respond to protracted and complex humanitarian crises, Belgium also has a funding instrument (humanitarian programmes), which is used to finance crises over two years. Belgian humanitarian aid has launched a call for humanitarian programmes, in preparation for disasters, of the order of EUR 15 million for Belgian humanitarian NGOs in the priority region of Belgian humanitarian aid of which the Great Lakes region is part. Through disaster preparedness support, this call aims to reduce the disastrous effects of natural disasters and conflicts by trying to better prepare the beneficiary populations for them. Several NGOs responded by proposing projects in Burundi and neighbouring countries. Projects will be selected in June. In addition, through my support to international organizations, such as UNHCR, ICRC and OCHA, Belgium is likely to respond directly or indirectly to even more humanitarian needs arising from this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u3	Minister, thank you for both of these answers. The situation in Burundi remains of great concern. It is therefore important to keep an eye on it, as the population is the first to suffer from it. I agree with the continuation of the suspension of aid. Indeed, 35 million will not be used in 2016. We'll see about the rest. I appeal to redirect this amount to other projects as you do. You mentioned several calls for projects. Indeed, an adequate response is also needed in order to continue to support the people who are currently suffering a great deal in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I would like to question you following the publication of a report by eight Belgian humanitarian NGOs entitled "Because every life counts: towards a strengthened Belgian humanitarian policy". This report looks at Belgian humanitarian aid. Its objective is to make a kind of state of affairs and to call for a better articulation between development policies and humanitarian policies. According to the report, it would appear that Belgium has an essentially linear approach which takes very little account of complex and prolonged crises. Like other European countries, Belgium is encouraged to adopt a more dynamic and, above all, integrated approach. Belgium has already started to incorporate these recommendations as the humanitarian strategy is already included in the management plan of DGD 2013-2019. Trans-directional teams within DGD have been set up. Minister, can you tell me what you have done or intend to do to make the link between development policy and humanitarian policy more dynamic and integrated? What tools have been or will be made available to the various actors in cooperation (NGOs and public authorities) in order to enable our country as a whole to adopt a differentiated but coordinated approach, thanks to the specialization and professionalisation of the relevant actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u5	Mr Crusnière, the allegation that this report would show that Belgium has an essentially linear approach that takes very little account of complex and prolonged crises must be somewhat nuanced. On the humanitarian front, a new royal decree drawn up in consultation with Belgium's humanitarian partners entered into force in 2014. The Belgian humanitarian aid partners now have instruments enabling multi-annual funding to ensure greater continuity in their actions. I cite as examples the generous support to the means of international humanitarian organizations for a period of three years, and the funding of twenty-four-month programmes capable of carrying out rehabilitation and reconstruction activities, a revival of the socio-economic fabric or disaster preparedness in crises considered complex. They are countries facing ongoing and significant chronic humanitarian needs, requiring longer-term assistance. Belgium has decided to concentrate its efforts mainly in the partner countries of the Sahel, the Great Lakes region and the occupied Palestinian territories, where we have representations that are aware of the context and capable of effectively monitoring our funding. As far as the link between development policy and humanitarian policy is concerned, reform towards an integrated country policy is one of my priorities. Practical arrangements for the implementation of this integrated country policy are being prepared. The intention is to have a more integrated approach and to be able to select the best-equipped implementing actor according to the challenges ahead. It is also a question of developing a cooperation approach that is better suited to situations of fragility in which many of our partner countries find themselves. An increase in crises extends over time. This environment is often not suitable for the implementation of a conventional development policy, but the root causes of crises must be addressed. That's why I asked my administration and CTB to develop this fragile approach. The protection of tools, such as a practical guide for implementing the principles of a fragile approach and a crisis management framework, is under way with the academic support of ACROPOLIS, Research program on Aid Effectiveness in Fragile Contexts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear your intentions. In the coming weeks, we will have the opportunity to continue this very important debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in the ETS Directive, the European Union is asking the Member States to use at least half of the ETS revenues for climate policy. The Climate Justice Platform, a national platform bringing together environmental movements, trade unions, North-South organisations and youth councils, also recommends that this revenue be fully spent on climate policy and that at least half of it be used for international climate finance. According to the Belgian agreement, concluded last year between the federal government and the regions, the federal government should contribute at least EUR 25 million annually until 2020. The government agreement also provides that the federal contribution to international climate financing will be made through Development Cooperation. According to international agreements, this amount must be new and additional. This means that the amounts must be added to the amounts previously promised, for example for development cooperation. The federal government has so far been a very poor student in this field. For example, Belgian bilateral development cooperation projects that are climate-relevant as international climate finance are reported. Contributions to international climate funds, for example, have also been constantly drawn from the development budget in the past. In the context of a declining development budget, that can be anything but additional, what it should be. On the contrary, in times when developing countries are facing increasing challenges, including climate challenges, the flow of money from Belgium to the South is falling. Using the ETS revenue can ensure additionality. It is a new flow of money and also based on the polluter pays principle. I have already questioned your colleague responsible for the Environment, Mrs Marghem. From her reply, I understood that international climate financing will benefit from the federal ETS revenues, in particular for paying the federal part of the Belgian target of allocating EUR 50 million per year for international climate financing. Minister, will the ETS funds for international climate finance flow through Belgian Development Cooperation? In what way will this happen? How is additionality ensured? Which actors will be involved in the implementation of the financing commitments? The amount of EUR 25 million of restrictive appropriations was entered in the Development Cooperation budget. How will these resources be used? Will the federal government contribute to the Green Climate Fund in 2016, whether or not it is from that ETS revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, on your first question, I can only reply to the part on the use of the balances made available to development cooperation of the federal share of ETS revenues. These balances will be used in the context of climate policy in developing countries. Secondly, development cooperation is a requesting party to use these resources as far as possible for international climate financing. The share of federal revenue that can be used for this purpose depends on Article 65c of the Special Law of 16 January 1989 on the financing of the Regions and Communities. I refer to Mrs Marghem for this, but you have already questioned her, I understand. Thirdly, a separate programme is included in the budget for development cooperation, which contains a specific basic allocation per funding channel, which allows us to be flexible and adaptable to needs and opportunities. Each year an amount shall be provided for this, equal to the balances of the federal share of the ETS financing, used to finance new initiatives or to strengthen existing ones. This is how we ensure additionality, to which you referred. The channels provided include the sectors of non-governmental cooperation, a separate university channel, delegated cooperation, bio and state-to-state loans. This provides sufficient flexibility. Fourthly, the 2016 budget does not provide for commitment appropriations for the Green Climate Fund. Last year EUR 50 million was committed and EUR 40 million settled. This year, the remaining EUR 10 million will be settled. The funding does not come from the ETS revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do not understand how you ensure additionality, so the fact that it does not come directly from the appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u10	Because they are new initiatives or reinforcements of existing initiatives. It is therefore not the recycling, as one can call it, of existing projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u11	Minister, it is of course about the money. How are the new initiatives funded? If they are financed by the funds already allocated, it is not additional. However, if they are financed from, for example, the ETS, it is of course additional.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u12	It is the balances of the ETS that are used. If these are not enough, the general resources of development cooperation will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u14	Yes. Then it's through the ETS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u15	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, according to a recent Oxfam report, the three-quarters of companies that have recently received loans from the World Bank to finance development projects in Africa have moved these funds through tax havens. Of the 68 companies that received loans in 2015 from the International Finance Corporation, the branch of the Bank that provides loans to private companies, 51 have passed this money through territories considered tax havens, especially Mauritius. The process used is as follows: the company disguises its fund as "foreign direct investment". This allows it to obtain substantial tax relief while, according to Oxfam, this region of the world "is desperately in need of corporate taxes to invest in public services and infrastructure". I would add that the Bank's objectives are precisely the development of these regions! Could you please explain to me what specific instructions you gave to the Belgian representative in this institution to stop these scandalous practices of tax evasion, totally contrary to ethics but above all to the development objectives assigned to the World Bank? Is this umpteenth episode of malgovernance at the World Bank likely to ensure that you evolve on this issue and that the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, DGD, eventually becomes the interlocutor to represent Belgian interests in this forum, instead of a representative of the FPS Finance, as at present?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u16	Madam President, Minister, every year, Development Cooperation grants the World Bank €130 million out of an overall budget of €1.7 billion. Our country is a founding member of the 25 members of the Board of Governors and Directors, the two executive bodies of the World Bank. Belgium is represented by a senior official of the Ministry of Finance, who negotiates the funds that Belgium grants to the institution. From a legal point of view, Belgian participation in the World Bank is a matter for the Minister of Finance. This guardianship appears to be paradoxical. Despite the 2013 Development Policy Coherence Act, the World Bank's policies are increasingly criticized, as are some of the projects funded. They sometimes raise questions about the challenges of sustainable development and the national and international commitments made by Belgium (respect for human rights, policy coherence, food security, etc.).). Moreover, it would appear that the institution does not respect certain international treaties ratified by Belgium. Finally, the transparency of the Belgian mandate within this institution is almost non-existent with regard to both parliament and civil society. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Under what mechanism does your department cooperate with the FPS Finances in defining the Belgian mandate within the World Bank? Would you like to see this tutelage come back to you as the budget of the Cooperation finances the World Bank? Is it true that a number of World Bank projects run counter to Belgian development policy or even to certain treaties ratified by our country? What follow-up, therefore, does Belgium have in the decision-making bodies of the BM? How could the transparency of this institution - and of the Belgian position within it - vis-à-vis Parliament and civil society be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u17	Minister, the World Bank is one of the largest recipients of our resources for development cooperation. If my information is correct, it will be about EUR 130 million each year. That is more than all the help the Belgian NGOs receive. It's about a big package. Contrary to the resources that we give NGOs, and in order to ensure that they are used properly, I note that there is actually little or no supervision, not from Parliament, of the funds given to the World Bank. As it happens, three questions are being asked today about the World Bank, but most of the time there is not much debate about it. At first sight, I believe that there can be a tension between what the World Bank is doing and what the general orientations of our development cooperation are. For example, I note that the World Bank, through the International Finance Corporation and the IDA, supports the development of agribusiness in developing countries. I am thinking, among other things, of the growth pool Bagré in Burkina Faso or the agro-industrial parks in Congo. According to all experts, these parks pose a threat to family farming. However, I thought that support for family farming was just one of our priorities. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, how are you trying to ensure that there is agreement between our Belgian development policy and what happens to our money by the World Bank? Do you see any tension fields? Secondly, do you also believe that a little more attention should be paid to the activities of the World Bank by Belgium? I am not asking you for instructions to Parliament on this; my personal opinion is that Parliament should pay more attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u18	The contributions are compulsory contributions for our country. The same applies, for example, to contributions to the European Union. That does not mean, of course, that we should not ask questions about what happens with these resources. We must be aware of the fact that the place of Europe in general, and of Belgium in particular, unfortunately diminishes in the circles of power, which, in principle, reduces our ability to universalize our values in similar proportions. In a more general context, the world is becoming wider. More specifically, as far as the Bretton Woods institutions are concerned, there has been a relative decline in the World Bank compared to other sources of financial assistance, as Chinese banks have lent Latin America and Africa more than the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank combined for nearly ten years. As a result, the World Bank Group does not have the unique keys to universal development. As the executive director of the constituency to which Belgium belongs, our representative is always seeking consensus among its members, with conclusions that can be defended by all members of our constituency. However, our constituency has, so far, always defended a clear position on the non-use of tax havens by companies benefiting from the assistance of the World Bank Group. As part of the work of our electoral group, Belgium prepares positions and issues questions and comments on decisions to be taken on the Board of the World Bank's administration. Belgium is trying to do so in such a way that the World Bank takes Belgian priorities into account when implementing the projects. The financial contributions to the World Bank are included in the development cooperation budget, although the Belgian representation in the bank is carried out by the FPS Finance. That situation requires good consultation between the two FPSs, which is the case in practice. Nevertheless, our representation could be optimised by allowing a more qualitative participation of the DGD. In this way, policy coherence could be improved. I am currently looking at the problem and discussing it with my colleague in the finance department. The General Directorate of Development Cooperation of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Finances have developed a close coordination framework to better coordinate the follow-up of the activities of the Bretton Woods institutions. The characteristics of that frame are the following. First, regular informal meetings between DGD and FPS Finance to prepare for our activities at spring meetings and annual meetings in order to achieve better exchange of information and better coordinated position on specific issues. Secondly, the possibility for the Minister for Development Cooperation to participate in spring meetings and annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Thirdly, DGD's participation in the rounds of IDA refinancing negotiations in which the analysis of information and reporting are carried out jointly with the Finance FPS. Fourthly, a joint DGD and SPF Finance representation in the office of the Belgian constituency of the World Bank thanks to the addition, since the end of 2012, of a Development Cooperation Advisor from DGD. Belgium has chosen the World Bank as a privileged multilateral partner because of the broad consensus of sectors and themes that the World Bank is promoting, with the priorities of Belgian development policy. As in the Belgian development policy, there is a strong focus on agriculture and food security, basic health care, education and training, basic infrastructure, gender, social economy, good governance, fragile state and debt, sustainability and the development of the private sector. In addition, the World Bank is present in all partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation, which further enhances synergies with the Belgian programmes. I am therefore convinced that the objectives of Belgian development cooperation are largely in line with those of the World Bank. In its cooperation with the World Bank, Belgium prepares positions and issues questions and comments on the decisions to be taken within the Bank's Board of Directors and tries to ensure that the Bank, when implementing the projects, takes Belgian priorities into account. This aspect remains an important focus for both DGD and FPS Finance, particularly following comments by some NGOs and part of civil society concerning possible incompatibilities in the conduct of Belgian development policy, particularly in the field of agriculture. In terms of transparency, the World Bank has always achieved a good score in its evaluations. This is due in particular to the Bank's good performance in publishing the results of its projects and programmes based on internal measurement systems (Results Measurement System, corporate scorecard, Mapping for Results, Program-for-Results, etc.).). As far as the communication is concerned, the parliament could invite the representative of Belgium to the World Bank on the occasion of the annual meetings. With respect to other aspects of representation, this responsibility falls within the purview of the Minister of Finance. Therefore, I suggest that you ask him a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u19	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Although the World Bank is losing momentum, it is still the best tool at the universal level to develop a multilateral development policy. It's up to us to make it work! At the moment, many of our NGOs are being screened today by Deloitte and before it by PwC. I propose that the budget that you allocate to the NGO screening, you allocate it to the screening of the Belgian budget of the World Bank, since at the moment this poses a great deal of problems from the point of view of governance and the use of these means by the World Bank. Today, 75 per cent of business-led and IFC-funded projects, dependent on the World Bank, have gone through tax havens, which poses a real political problem, a real ethical problem, a real moral problem. Finally, in relation to the presence in the cockpit of the DGD decision on the allocation of this EUR 130 million budget to the World Bank, for environmentalists, it is clear that it must be DGD and not FPS Finance. The World Bank's goal is development. These are not performance targets! It's a bank but a global bank, a development bank. The development objective must prevail over the performance objective! Not later than at a meeting in Brussels in early January, it was necessary to define safeguard policies to put at the heart of development, human rights. That was not possible. I think if we had experts from our DGD in the cockpit, it would be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u20	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I thought I heard a certain openness from you, at the beginning of your speech, when you indicated that you were discussing a discussion with your Finance colleague for perhaps a better representation of DGD at the World Bank level. On the other hand, at the end of your answer, you told us that we had to address our question to the Minister of Finance. Right away, my enthusiasm was kind of cooled. In any case, my group has tabled a resolution on this issue from the World Bank. This resolution foresees a number of things, including the fact that, in fact, tomorrow, the Department of Development Cooperation is manoeuvring at the level of the World Bank and not finance. If this is your real will, you will have the support of my group and, I think, other groups to move forward in this direction. As my colleague Mr Hellings said, there are many questions today. It was still read that a United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights and extreme poverty indicated that, in his view, the choices made by the World Bank were incompatible with respect for human rights. I believe that this is very challenging and that we cannot, as parliamentarians, accept that millions of euros from the Belgian Development Cooperation Department will be used in this way, without us being able to highlight our values and the struggles that are important to us. I also hope that we will soon be able to hold annual debates here – and I am saying with you, Minister responsible for Development Cooperation. You were not really heard about Belgium's messages at the World Bank level. You did not answer that question. We could have an annual debate and a precise report on the Belgian positions defended at World Bank level by our representative, who I hope will soon be a representative of Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u21	Minister, two issues are addressed in the three questions. First of all, who has custody of the World Bank? This is an old debate between the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Development Cooperation. I have always been of the opinion, even when I was a member of the Finance Committee, that it is a responsibility of the FPS Development Cooperation and that it is the Minister for Development Cooperation who should represent Belgium at the World Bank summits. That is the first point that we will undoubtedly continue to discuss. My question, however, was more about the substance: is the World Bank's policy consistent with our policy? My proposal, if I have understood you correctly, was that at the end of the day you made a suggestion in the sense that, in consultation with your cabinet and the Treasury, for as long as necessary, we are trying to find a date when we invite the representative of Belgium in the World Bank and the specialist of the DGD here to a thematic meeting on Belgium and the World Bank, so that we can have a thorough exchange of views, fill a gap by paying greater attention from Parliament to what is happening in and around the World Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u22	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the Deloitte audit firm was chosen to evaluate Belgian actors in non-governmental development cooperation. This screening is carried out according to selection criteria from private management, far removed from the principles of solidarity and development cooperation. The cost of the last screening, according to the budget data of the tenders, is between 550 000 and 650 000 euros. Deloitte, just as PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) had done before him in 2010, is, in our view, well placed to evaluate the good management of NGOs that are fighting for development cooperation worthy of this name. Indeed, companies like Deloitte say they are fighting fraud in NGOs but also provide advice to circumvent the tax! Indeed, the NGO ActionAid has made public a confidential document by Deloitte, whose title leaves no room for ambiguity: "investing in Africa through Mauritius". Deloitte is trying to convince investors to use its services, giving them the multiple tax advantages of a home in Mauritius in order to escape taxation for their projects on the African continent, depriving the world's poorest states every year of hundreds of billions of dollars in income. At the same time, the list of tax and economic scandals involving Deloitte is long. It concerns Italy, Canada or Spain. How could such a company involved in so many financial scandals have received the confidence of the government to take on this task? Are you committed to excluding audit firms involved in tax evasion such as Deloitte and PwC in your upcoming tenders? It should be noted that in the context of the Bankia case in Spain, Deloitte was excluded from tendering as a result of financial scandals. Finally, in your forthcoming calls for tenders to select an audit firm to evaluate the Belgian NGO sector, do you commit to include ethical criteria that allow responsible companies to be engaged, in accordance with the principles of development cooperation and to involve from the pre-selection phase the federations representing NGOs and the domes bringing together North/South solidarity organisations in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u23	Minister, as many of my questions were raised during last week's review of the bill, I will summarize them. When will the orders be submitted to us? Can you assure us that the actors in non-governmental cooperation will not find themselves in a legal vacuum when they introduce their new programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u24	Mrs Grovonius, in general, the royal decrees are not presented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u25	I tried!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u26	I understand. They will be taken as soon as possible after the votes. More generally, the situation is uncomfortable for the CNGs and for the administration as they work in an incomplete legal framework. I have chosen to undertake this reform in close consultation with the sector. This slows down the process somewhat. The uncomfortable nature of the incomplete legal framework is offset by the fact that the reform is based on an agreement between the parties, which have undertaken to implement it fairly. Therefore, there will be no surprise at the time of the publication of the law and the royal decree. There is no risk of legal vacuum. Until the adoption of the bill reforming non-governmental cooperation, the current regulations will continue to apply. As soon as the bill is passed by Parliament, I will submit the two implementing orders for royal signature – in principle, before the parliamentary holidays. The seriousness of the situation experienced by the CNG should not be overstated. The overall framework and budget envelope have been known since August 2015. They were able to integrate them into their programming process. Legislation and implementing orders are subject to a transparent dialogue with the sector. Since taking office, I have endeavoured to offer the greatest possible legal certainty to non-governmental cooperation. You will recall that I had to adapt, for the first time, the law of 19 March 2013 and the royal decree of 25 April 2014 in order to be able to organise the re-approval of the ACNGs, otherwise they would not have been able to claim approval. The bill to which you refer was tabled in the House on May 4, 2016, introduced on May 17 and passed on May 31 in committee. I hope that it will be voted on as soon as possible. Civil society has been consulted extensively on the project and on the draft implementing decree. The law is based on the terms of an agreement between the sectors of non-governmental cooperation itself. The procurement you mention has been conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 15 June 2006, as amended to date. This was an open procedure. Article 20 of the Act and Article 61 of the Royal Decree of 15 May 2011 set out the conditions for a bidder undertaking to be eligible for the procurement. The seven exclusion criteria provided for in the Act were verified by my administration as of November 16, 2015. The conclusion was that Deloitte, having not been convicted by a res judicata, has access to the market. If Deloitte or another audit firm had been convicted, they would not have access to the contract. In the future, the same will apply. If the law on public procurement were to be amended in order to tighten the conditions for access to public procurement, my administration would, of course, apply it. So far, no conviction has been handed down. It would be illegal to exclude bidders on the basis of a presumption of guilt. NGOs themselves regularly sign contracts with the same audit firms as part of the revision of their annual accounts. The need to include ethical criteria in invitations to tender is a reflection that needs to be carried out more broadly at Parliament level. I am in favour of a broad debate on this subject, which is the only way to guarantee the choice of these fair and legal criteria. As for the participation of federations and cupolas in defining rules for the sector they represent, I will reassure you that they are widely and regularly consulted. However, with respect to the contract that is the subject of your question, as their management system is itself subject to review, it was not possible for them to participate in the process because it would have put them in the difficult situation of being a judge and a party. With regard to the role of this external office, it should be noted that the CNGs are judged on the basis of nine dimensions. Of these, eight are carried out by our administration. Only one is by an external firm. This dimension is called, in Dutch, bedrijfsvoering. That's how they organize themselves. The idea that we let the private sector do everything is not true. Only one-ninth of the entire evaluation is conducted by an external firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will reply in two steps: political time and judicial time. At the political level, it is clear that cooperation is not treated as any major public or private investment by an NGO or an ACNG. These are two different things. The associate clearly has an expertise in cooperation that Deloitte – or PwC before him – does not have. A political question arises today. The aim of screening, the effect of which has led to the cancellation of twenty ACNGs from the Cooperation, is to combat fraud in small structures that – in your opinion and the company you have undertaken to implement this screening – must follow a series of procedures to combat fraud. But we have proof that Deloitte is organizing itself at the global level to advise large structures and companies in their tax evasion. Read the report in question! The title is very clear: "How to maximize your interests in Mauritius?" In my opinion, we need to find another way to screen these NGOs. It's not the same thing. Apples and pears are compared while apples and pears must be grown.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for these points of answer. You tell us that there is no legal uncertainty. It is true that we discussed this last week. But I'm not convinced that's the case. Indeed, there will be no concern for the structures that can be accredited today; they have been involved in the discussion process and the text has been known for a long time. This screening started in early 2016. The legal framework did not yet exist. I submitted a written question in order to have the precise list of actors who will not receive this approval on the basis of a screening carried out when there was no legal basis for doing so. These actors are not going to receive the appeal. Can you be certain that no appeal will be brought? And if there are remedies, are you sure that all the legal assurances have been taken that we are not in trouble with this process? In my view, the latter was not organised in the best conditions to create legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u29	We cannot be guilty without being condemned; I find this a little disturbing. There are many questions about things that happen, but there is a basic rule. If I hear your point of view, we can be guilty without being convicted. I find that very worrying, but that is your point of view. We can ask ourselves questions, but at some point we need judgment. There may be charges that I am not aware of, but the law is very clear and based on whether or not there is a conviction. If we start organizing ourselves here on the basis of a kind of perception that does not respect the judicial system, I would find that rather worrying. I come to the CNG and to the fact that they would not be informed. They are all represented by cupolas and federations. Today, we are in consultation with the cupolas and federations on the content of the royal decrees. We have made the choice to amend this law at their request. They told us that they would like to make changes and asked us to work in parallel, which was done. I therefore believe that the legal uncertainty to which you are referring does not concern the sector since the changes made were made at the request of the sector. As far as screening is concerned, it is based on the 2014 law in force. There is therefore no ambiguity and legal uncertainty in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u30	Minister, you will read the first part of my reply and you will find that at no time have I spoken of guilt, conviction, or any suspicion. I articulated my reply to the fact that there was a mismatch between choosing an audit company that practices tax evasion on a large scale, which it does not hide since its document is called "Investing in Africa through Mauritius". Mauritius is a tax haven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u31	It is not on the list of tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u32	In any case, I don't see why politically, you provide the federal government with services that also advise large entities to try to evade the tax. I think this is a completely politically contradictory way of doing things. And we will see what the position of justice will be at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u33	We're not going to argue for hours. But as I said, I have no doubt that there has been consultation and that the cupolas and federations are well aware of the ongoing reform, the new law, etc. I do not know which CNGs have not received their approval today. It was in order to have this list that I tabled a written question. I assume that these must be smaller structures, which are not necessarily members of these cupolas and federations and which, therefore, have not necessarily been as involved in the consultation process and the decision-making process either. They are therefore potentially structures which could be more dissatisfied with the process and which could, possibly, bring appeals. That's all I mean. I'll know more when I'm in possession of the ACNG list. But that is not the subject of my question. In doing so, you probably wouldn't be able to pass it on to me. But we may have the opportunity to discuss it again, especially if we have to realize at some point that appeals have been brought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u34	Minister, my question about the special evaluator – it's been a long time – will be very brief. Could you provide us with an update on the procedure for the appointment of the new Special Reviewer of Cooperation? Is a start date planned? I also wanted to take advantage of this question to remind you of the warning cry that had been made by the previous special evaluator regarding the lack of human resources in this service. In this context, can you provide an update on the overall evolution of personnel in this service over the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u35	Dear colleague, the answer will be very short, too. The Royal Decree appointing Ms. Cécilia De Decker will be published shortly. She will take up her duties on 1 September. Compared to the change in staffing, as of May 11, 2016, the department was composed of five people: four evaluation managers and one secretary. In the coming months, two departures are planned. An evaluation manager retired in July 2016 and another retired to a diplomatic post in August 2016. Recruitment of an evaluation manager has been underway with the Selor since April 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u36	Minister, thank you for that answer. Five people make up this service, two of whom will leave soon; this makes three people for a special assessment service. I think the warning cry that was launched is more current than ever. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss this with Mrs De Decker when she takes up her duties. I really invite you to consider urgently the importance that you wish to attach to this service so that it can carry out its task in the best possible way because with three people, it seems to me a little compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u37	Mr Van Hoof has informed us that she cannot leave the committee. All her questions will be translated into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u38	Mr President, Minister, in a recent OECD report on development aid, it can be said that Belgian official development assistance (ODA) fell by 7.8% between 2014 and 2015. However, official development assistance has increased by 12.7 per cent, looking at developments across the 19 countries of the European Union that are members of the DAC. The report also provides information on the amounts of official development assistance devoted to "refugee costs in donor countries". On this basis, it can be seen that the fuck of ODA for Belgium is in fact much higher since it then reaches a reduction of 12%. Minister, can you tell us on which item these savings were made? Can you tell us what and for what amounts of ODA has been used for refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u39	Mrs Grovonius, the decrease in official development assistance compared to 2014 amounts to EUR 119 million. As far as the DGD budget is concerned, the decrease amounts to EUR 211 million. Expenditure on government cooperation decreased by EUR 52 million, expenditure on non-governmental cooperation by EUR 20 million and expenditure on multilateral cooperation by EUR 172 million. Expenditure on humanitarian programmes increased by EUR 47.5 million, a relative increase of 46.5% compared to 2014. Eligible expenditure as official aid from departments other than DGD and FPS Foreign Affairs increased by EUR 110 million. This increase is mainly due to an increase of EUR 65 million in eligible expenditure as official aid from Fedasil, an increase of EUR 30 million for the Belgian share in official aid from European cooperation and an increase of EUR 21 million for multilateral expenditure via the FPS Finance. With regard to the reception of migrants in developed countries, Fedasil has already released EUR 205 million. This amount is therefore not allocated to the general government budget, but to EUR 6.87 million for voluntary return and EUR 198 million for timely reception of migrants. These amounts are charged as official development aid, in accordance with the rules agreed within the OECD DAC in this area. In the context of budgetary prudence, the Council of Ministers has indeed decided to block the budget for development cooperation by EUR 125 million. This amount shall be distributed among all programmes of the Development Cooperation budget, except for humanitarian cooperation. Programme 1 blocked EUR 66 million, programme 2 16 million, programme 3 40 million and programme 4 3 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am all the less reassured about these percentages as I have before me the most recent report of the Court of Auditors on our 2016 budgetary adjustment. For the Department of Foreign Affairs, External Trade and Development Cooperation, this report points to the administrative blockage of funds for development cooperation. This concerns important amounts: appropriations for the commitment and liquidation of development cooperation. The percentages of our ODA budget are probably even lower. I am also concerned about this report because it indicates that the Department of Cooperation believes that it will be able to achieve all its compulsory expenditure in 2016 but that it will have to limit a number of voluntary contributions and will not be able to carry out all the actions planned. I would probably have the opportunity to come back to you more precisely on this subject, to know what these voluntary contributions and planned actions cannot be carried out, but I am content to note that at the moment we are in a budgetary context that is not positive. I invite you to try to obtain from your government colleagues amounts that are commensurate with the importance of the department you manage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u41	Mr President, Minister, on 23 and 24 May the first World Humanitarian Summit was held in Istanbul at the initiative of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. The aim was to bring together NGOs, heads of state and private actors around the same table in order to provide a new response to the outstanding humanitarian crises. At that summit the Grand Bargain was to be presented, in particular, a proposal to reform the financing of the international humanitarian system, which was agreed upon by the 15 major donor countries and 15 of the largest humanitarian agencies. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. What lessons do you learn from Belgium's participation in this humanitarian summit? Can you inform me in more detail about the content and main developments proposed by the proposed reform of the financing of the international humanitarian system? What position has Belgium taken with regard to this reform project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u42	Mr President, Minister, with regard to this first World Summit on Humanitarian Action in Istanbul, I would like to ask you three questions. What was your message on behalf of Belgium? What bilateral meetings, if any, have you been able to do at this summit and with whom have they taken place? What are the general conclusions of this summit and the points of attention for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u43	Minister, the first World Summit on Humanitarian Aid took place in Istanbul on Monday 23 and Tuesday 24 May. Its aim was to take measures to alleviate the humanitarian need in the world. It has not been this big since the Second World War, with a record of 125 million people in need, 60 million people fleeing and a gaping financial gap of over EUR 16 billion. Moreover, the rules of international humanitarian law are almost systematically violated. One of the proposals at the summit was a more coordinated approach to humanitarian and development aid. That proposal already caused the meeting a fuss. The organisation Doctors Without Borders, one of the actors who went through the entire preparation process, opposed the proposal and decided to withdraw from the summit. It fears that humanitarian aid will go hand in hand with development and peace-building, with a political agenda. Minister, what priorities have you put forward for Belgium? What tangible commitments have you made to ensure, together with the international community, emergency aid for all victims of wars, terror and natural disasters? Have the Member States and actors present reached a consensus on the strong link between humanitarian aid and development aid? If so, how will it be worked out in practice? What are the consequences of this on the way in which Belgium is now doing aid? Have any agreements been made in the European Union, or will they be made in future, on the implementation of the agreements reached at the summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u44	Minister, as already mentioned, the first global humanitarian summit took place in Istanbul. It is important to note that, among other things, the organisation Doctors Without Borders has sent her symbolic cat. It considers that the current humanitarian system is not prepared to recognise its shortcomings and to improve aid in the event of complex, acute emergencies. In addition, countries are increasingly ignoring the legal frameworks to protect people in crisis situations. In recent times, staff and convoys of the Red Cross have been shot at and hospitals are also bombed. The result of the summit in Istanbul is the Grand Bargain. Minister, I have a lot of questions for you. How will the United Nations and Belgium respond in concrete terms to the cry of Doctors Without Borders? What efforts is Belgium making to ensure that international humanitarian law is respected? At what level and with whom are these efforts being made? Belgium already scores fairly well in the rankings in terms of financing humanitarian aid. Can you give us an update? What effects does the Grand Bargain have on this? Finally, flexibility in aid financing is a good step in transparency. Is it possible to obtain an overview of the use of humanitarian funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u45	Mr President, I can confirm Belgium's participation in the World Humanitarian Summit. I led the delegation. Belgium had prepared a position paper in the run-up to the summit. This document is available on the Foreign Affairs website. The Belgian position has been carefully prepared with a consultation process, i.e. in consultation with Belgian humanitarian NGOs, other FPS and federated entities. In my speech in plenary, I reaffirmed Belgium's commitment to contribute actively to the strengthening of the humanitarian system. I have focused on our country's three priorities at the summit. I first stressed the need to enable local actors to play a more central role in the humanitarian process. In a changing world that is facing increasingly long and complex crises, an approach based on local needs is more necessary than ever. I then again stressed the importance of giving more attention to the preparation of catastrophes. For Belgium, improving resilience is an absolute priority. Development actors and humanitarian actors should cooperate better in order to sustainably strengthen disaster preparedness. Finally, I stressed the importance of paying more attention to new technologies and funding mechanisms in the humanitarian response. Moreover, since the summit, together with the International Committee of the Red Cross, we have launched the first Humanitarian Impact Union, a new funding mechanism designed to attract private capitals to finance rehabilitation programmes during humanitarian crises. The World Humanitarian Summit was an unprecedented event. Participants made it clear that humanitarian assistance alone cannot adequately address or sustainably reduce the needs of more than 130 million most vulnerable people. A real need for change was stressed through a new approach. Approximately 1,500 commitments were made by more than 400 participating delegations. Belgium itself has made nearly 70 individual and joint commitments. At the round table on humanitarian financing, commitments were made on the flexibility and predictability of funding – the financing of local actors and humanitarian action – but also on the financing of actions aimed at reducing "humanitarian disaster" risks. During the negotiations of the Grand Bargain in which Belgium actively participated, donors and the humanitarian community decided to increase the efficiency of investments by allocating more resources directly to those in need at the local and national levels. This Grand Bargain was officially signed at the Istanbul Summit and incorporates the commitments and recommendations needed to increase the effectiveness of humanitarian investment. The full text is available on the World Humanitarian Summit website. Thus, tangible commitments were made within the framework of the Grand Bargain, the final part of the first day of the World Humanitarian Summit. It is an agreement between the 15 largest donors, to which Belgium belongs, and the 15 largest international organisations, including two humanitarian NGO networks. In the agreement, the parties commit themselves to 10 commitments. The two most concrete commitments are the following. Firstly, donors and humanitarian organisations will aim to allocate at least 25% of humanitarian aid to local and national organisations by 2020, as directly as possible. Secondly, donors will aim to make available at least 30% of humanitarian contributions unintended or slightly earmarked by 2020. The whole efficiency debate is also about shortening the chain between donor and final beneficiary. Local organisations are the organisations that, often in conflict situations, provide the most necessary services to the beneficiaries. It is now necessary to examine how they can be financed more directly, between too many intermediaries, without increasing too much financial risk derivatives, while ensuring the necessary accountability. We are only now at the beginning of the whole exercise. It is too early to answer the question of which criteria will be used. Moreover, the 25% target should not be guaranteed until 2020. I expect from my administration proposals to make the change. Already there are discussions with the Belgian NGOs to investigate initiatives such as the Start Fund, from which international but also local organisations can depart. I will also ensure that in the country-specific funds, such as the Emergency Response Fund of the Common Humanitarian Fund, to which Belgium contributes, we make known our position in the advisory bodies of these funds so that more local organisations can be directly financed. Governments have also committed themselves to doing more to prevent conflict and consolidate peace, to ensure respect for international humanitarian law and the promise of the United Nations Charter. Our priority is, therefore, to ensure that an adequate monitoring mechanism is in place. We will work to implement our own commitments and engage in a dialogue with partner organisations on the commitments that have been made at the Summit, so that they are not empty promises and are the first step towards real change for the most vulnerable. I have had several bilateral meetings, in particular with the executive director of the World Food Programme, Ertharin Cousin, and with the Deputy High Commissioner of the United Nations for Refugees, Kelly Clements, and Finnish Minister Toivakka. MSF's alarm cry is mainly of a political nature. Humanitarian aid does not provide a solution to the various crises created by man. Nevertheless, a round table was devoted to this theme at the World Humanitarian Summit. There have been no binding commitments but joint commitments, including commitments to promote international humanitarian law, greater respect for the protection of citizens, provision of assistance for all those in need, protection of medical personnel and medical services, including transportation, against violence and strong condemnation of all violations of international law. When MSF finds that the humanitarian system is not ready to recognize its own shortcomings and to improve aid in complex and acute emergencies, this lacks nuance. The 15 largest donors and 15 largest organisations have agreed on 10 points to improve the effectiveness of the humanitarian system. It's the Great Bargain. This does not mean that improvements will take place overnight, but it is still collective commitments that allow each one to hold each other to account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u46	Mr Minister, I thank you for all this information and for taking the time to respond in sufficient detail to an issue for which we could also have a more in-depth exchange of views, as the issues and topics discussed are of importance. I am thinking of the issue of the specificity of the services we can provide in cooperation in well-targeted crises. It is well known – this is my opinion – that we would do better to have more specific and coordinated policies. I hear that you want to do something about it to respond specifically to certain situations of humanitarian crisis. Of course, the other aspect of international coordination would also, I think, merit further thought. I would have the opportunity to read and appreciate the minister's answers because he was sometimes very quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u48	Mr President, Minister, it is very important that this world summit on humanitarian aid finally took place. The question is, you have said that at the end of your reply, whether the States present will comply with the commitments they have made. Otherwise, like so many other summits, this threatens to be another good news show. There are many statements there, but in reality little action is taken on them, which is to the detriment of the people in great humanitarian need. I fear that because in many countries donor fatigue is beginning to occur. After all, there is a great deal of need for refugees, natural disasters, and it keeps coming. It is therefore understandable, but we must continue to invest. On the humanitarian impact, I think that is an interesting initiative that should certainly be worked out. Belgium has allocated EUR 10 million. That is not a small amount, especially in view of the savings in development cooperation. According to the information I have, there will be a pilot project in 2017. I will ask you a number of detailed questions about this in the autumn, as well as the answer you have given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u49	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. You read it a little faster than I could follow, so I will read it again in the Integrated Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u50	That promises for future questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u51	Madam President, Minister, you have repeatedly and with Parliament's support reiterated that children's rights must be at the heart of Belgian development cooperation. Your words at the beginning of your term of office on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child were clear. Let me quote: "The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the most ratified Convention in the world. We must also use this convention effectively to enforce children's rights. Human Rights Watch has recently, like others, published a number of reports on incredible situations that exist within the group of children of Syrian refugees residing in Turkey. We could call it child labour and slave labour. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, do you believe that, given that Europe has contributed to the problem through the Turkish-European migration deal itself, that Belgium and, more broadly, European development aid should address the problem of Syrian child labour in Turkey? If so, how do you think Europe should do that? Secondly, will you make a complaint against Turkey through the UN Committee on Children's Rights? If not, why won't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u52	Madam President, Mr Van der Maelen, I have not yet received the report on child labour among Syrian refugees in Turkey. I am, of course, aware of the spirit of the report. The Belgian Government is monitoring the situation of Syrian refugees in Turkey both at European and national level, calling on the weakest, particularly children, to be protected. The aid to the victims of the Syrian crisis is indispensable. Belgian development cooperation is involved in humanitarian aid to children, including through Unicef. Belgium gives EUR 10 million to that organisation for the protection of children in Syria, including to promote access to training. Moreover, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, points out that priority will be given to the education of refugee children when paying EU funds, which have been adopted in various forms since 2015. The problem of the employment of Syrian children is complex because it happens in illegality, which makes it particularly difficult to control and fight against. The employment of Syrian refugees in black and poor wages makes whole families needy, resulting in the children being put to work to support the family financially. It is a problem which we have already identified and which we have raised with the Turkish authorities. During discussions on this issue with the EU in January 2016, the Turkish Government announced that they would change their legislation to allow any Syrian who has been on Turkish territory for six months to apply for a work permit. The purpose of such a measure is to reduce, as far as possible, the extent of the practice of using Syrian refugees in black.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Belgium will not complain against Turkey to the Children's Rights Committee because this is not legally possible. The interstate complaint law under the Children's Rights Convention was only included in the third optional protocol to the Children's Rights Convention on a communication procedure. Belgium has ratified this protocol, but Turkey has not. I would also like to point out that the UN Human Rights Conventions have never used interstate complaint law. Of course, I share your concern about this report by Human Rights Watch, and I will continue to follow up and address this issue on every occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u53	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to follow up on this issue further. I'll do this myself. I will question you about this at regular intervals. By the way, I asked a question about the same problem to your foreign minister. You can expect questions about that from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u54	Mr President, Minister, while on 23 May last the Iraqi forces began their offensive on the city of Fallujah still owned by Daesh, on 1 June Unicef recalled that at least 20,000 children were still stranded there and were at risk of being forcibly recruited by the jihadists. The few residents who have been able to flee the centre of Fallujah since the beginning of this offensive have also described a lack of drinking water, food and medicine. According to the UNICEF representative in Iraq, "children risk forced recruitment into combat (...) and separation from their families; (...) recruited children are forced to carry weapons to fight in an adult war; their lives and future are in danger". The UN also accused Daesh of using civilians as human shields in fighting against Iraqi troops. In the face of this situation, UNICEF reiterated its calls for safe passages to allow some 50,000 besieged civilians to leave the city. Specifically, the representative of UNICEF called on "all parties to protect children in Fallujah, to ensure a safe passage for those who wish to leave the city and to provide a safe environment for civilians who have fled the city". Minister, do you have accurate and up-to-date information on the humanitarian situation in and around Fallujah, especially the situation of children? Have they finally escaped this threat of forced recruitment or, on the contrary, has this fear materialized? How do international organizations and donor countries best respond to the UNICEF call and its specific demands for the protection of children in Fallujah and for the safety of civilians and families trying to escape the fighting? What financial means does Belgium make available to UNICEF in Iraq? I recall that Belgium is a member of the international coalition that fights Daesh in Iraq (and soon in Syria). As such, we are directly involved in the course of the conflict. Our F-16s took part in air strikes in Iraq and our military trained Iraqi soldiers. Minister, you are certainly not in charge of defence, but you have always put forward the 3D strategy (Diplomatie, Défense, Développement). Therefore, what is the situation in this particular case? In Fallujah and Iraq, what is the development and humanitarian aid component alongside the defence and diplomacy components?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration has contacted Unicef, which at this stage does not have precise information on the situation in Fallujah. Indeed, the opening of the humanitarian passage allowing access to the city has not yet taken place. As a result, Unicef is not currently present in Fallujah. The humanitarian appeal for Iraq currently stands at $861 million, of which $269 million has already been raised. Of the $861 million, $83 million is requested for education. Indeed, the schooling of children is a measure of protection in itself, as they are grouped in an environment in principle secure. Seven hundred million dollars are being requested for protection activities. With regard specifically to UNICEF, Iraq's needs have been estimated at 101 million dollars and to date have been met at 55.3 per cent. In the area of protection, UNICEF supports children friendly spaces in Camp Ameriyat al-Fallujah, where children can find psychosocial support or assistance for unaccompanied or separated children. The choice of humanitarian funding in 2016 was based on an overall analysis of needs that was cross-cutting with the funding priorities of our partners. As part of this discussion, it was decided not to fund UNICEF in Iraq at this stage. On the other hand, we have opted for the following funding: OCHA, humanitarian aid coordination programme, advocacy and management of humanitarian information, amounting to EUR 1 million in 2016 and 2017; FAO, revival of the emergency culture, an area identified as a priority by the humanitarian coordinator for Iraq, at EUR 2 million in 2016 and 2017; ICRC, humanitarian assistance project in the conflict zone, humanitarian advocacy, at EUR 2 million in 2016; Iraq Emergency Response Fund, an emergency humanitarian fund that benefits the various humanitarian organisations present in Iraq (United Nations, Red Cross, NGOs) for their priority humanitarian activities, at EUR 6 million in 2016 and 2017. The 3D strategy, on the other hand, directly concerns development. However, this link is only an indirect link with humanitarian aid. Humanitarian action must be carried out in accordance with the fundamental humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. This approach based on these principles is essential for humanitarian aid actors to be accepted and able to operate on the ground in often very complex political and security contexts. The only possible link between humanitarian aid and the 3D strategy therefore lies in the a priori sharing of information on the humanitarian situation on the ground. Our humanitarian funding is therefore not and cannot be linked to our participation in the international coalition but to the existence of humanitarian needs assessed by recognised and neutral humanitarian organisations such as OCHA, ICRC, ECHO, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u56	Minister, thank you. If I hear correctly, since the Unicef could not enter the territory, we do not know exactly what is going on there. In addition, there is no contribution from Belgium directly to UNICEF but to other projects that you have selected. Why didn't you hold on to the Unicef?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u57	We have chosen other projects and we do a lot of core funding. These funds will somehow end up in Unicef, for which the total amount is 17 million for this year. We therefore allocate a great deal of resources to Unicef. The disadvantage of core funding is that I cannot quote it specifically in my answer, but we do so indirectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic437x.u59	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 11915 and No. Mr Calomne's 11916 were postponed.
