ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u2	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you announced in this rostrum a few weeks ago that you are taking up the issue of corporate tax reform and tax justice. Obviously, it did not please your majority partner, the N-VA, who hastened to remind you that, for her, there was no question of taxation on capital gains. The N-VA wasn't going to leave it there. Accompanied this time by another partner of your majority, the Open Vld, she said that the tax on financial transactions should also be waived. It is recalled, however, that you, like your party, affirmed before us your commitment to this measure. It should also be recalled that this Parliament has already shown, in 2004, its almost unanimous willingness to move forward on the ambitious issue of the Tobin tax. We now come to a decisive moment when we have to decide. But we learn that Belgium's attitude worries and astonishes our partners. The European Commission has said this on several occasions in these walls. As soon as yesterday, at his hearing in the Panama Papers Committee, European Commissioner Moscovici told us his concern about the attitude of the Belgian government. The N-VA, therefore, is not content with a speech; it clearly slows down the negotiations, at the risk of overturning them. Prime Minister, your speech on Europe, of which you said it is one of the most beautiful projects of humanity, seems to be experiencing fosseurs at the very heart of your government. While the MR engages in incantations in the media, his partner cuts his shanks in European fora. It is now clear, ladies and gentlemen, that some of us in this Parliament are at the service of the finance lobby. And I'm telling you, Mr. Ducrame, you who are giving lessons, you should also put a medical cordon between you and international finance. Prime Minister, can you say in this forum that Belgium is still actively supporting the introduction of the financial transaction tax? Will you demand unwavering support from your N-VA Finance Minister in the negotiations at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there was a time when our Parliament, our hemisphere, was the international leader of the tobin tax, a minimum charge of 0.01 percent on destructive speculation and not on enterprises or economies. The proceeds of this, EUR 50 billion, can then be used to help developing countries, among other things, to eradicate hunger. It is more than the entire budget for development aid together. This is a first step towards international fiscal justice. The money generated by the tobin tax comes from the big speculators in the financial markets that have already brought many countries and economies to the brink of collapse in the past. Prime Minister, the tobin tax is a good idea and you agree with us on this point. You yourself indicated to the UN on 23 September that it is a question of basic justice. We absolutely must introduce that tax! Ladies and gentlemen, after 16 years all the studies have been done, all the false accusations have been rejected and all the objections have been overcome. It's time to act now. But at the moment of truth, the N-VA doesn't want to. The N-VA once again shows itself as the party of the great speculators. Even a minimal charge as the tobin tax with maximum equity effects is a bridge too far. We already know that this party sabotages fiscal justice in its own country, but that it now also sabotages tax justice at international level is unimaginable. Apparently, the powerful financial lobby has whispered a few things, against the will of the people. Prime Minister, it is time for you to prove whether you are the N-VA's errand boy or whether you will honour the government agreement and the 16-year-old people's call for fiscal justice. Your predecessor Verhofstadt placed the introduction of the tobin tax internationally on the agenda. Will you be the gravedigger of that tax or will it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u4	Mr Prime Minister, in 2004 Parliament was indeed asked to introduce the financial transaction tax with as many countries as possible in Europe. That was a clear message that all the negotiators received. That was also the message that Mr Van Overtveldt received. In the meantime, of course, a lot has happened. Over the years, discussions have been held and the effects of the financial transaction tax have also been established. We have also held regular hearings in the Finance Committee to examine the impact of the financial transaction tax. We have come to the conclusion that the introduction of the financial transaction tax would currently have a damaging impact on pension funds, on our public debt and on the financial market as such. There is also the fact that not so many countries participate. More and more countries are failing. The Netherlands and Luxembourg are falling and Belgium would be the only country in the Benelux that would import the tobin tax. Finally, it may prevent companies from settling in Belgium on the occasion of the Brexit, to which the Prime Minister has specifically called, if we are the only ones to introduce the financial transaction tax. Prime Minister, do you recognise the potential negative impact of the introduction of the financial transaction tax on our economy? What will be the attitude of our country in the coming months? We really hope that you will not leave the negotiating table, but will clearly say that we need to be with more if we are to introduce the tobin tax. If we introduce them alone, we will only have to bear the disastrous consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, to talk about the Tobin tax, its advantages and disadvantages, I chose Oxfam's image, which shows us the arguments in favour of this tax:- 1.3 billion income in Belgium; - two out of three Belgians who support this Tobin tax project; - ten other European countries support it, i.e. two thirds of the European Union's economy and even more so in the euro area; - this tax does not affect savers and small investors; - this tax dissuades financial speculation. And here's the argument against this tax: the bank lobby doesn't like it. It is enough for the FEB and Febelfin, the banking lobby, to make an exit against the Tobin tax so that the next day the N-VA publishes a forum on the same issue and Kris Peeters gets involved with this tax. Prime Minister, I remind you of your own statement at the UN General Assembly: "Belgium, together with ten other countries of the European Union, wishes to develop a system for taxing financial transactions. We must succeed in removing technical and political obstacles. It's a matter of elementary equity." In particular, we must go back to false counter-arguments, such as when Mr. Van Biesen tells us that this is a problem for the debt. Well, no! These ten countries have demonstrated, and Belgium has accepted, that there is no problem with the debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u6	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u7	Read the texts again, Mr Van Biesen! The problem, Prime Minister, is that it takes a minimum number of countries to do so. That number of nine must be respected. Therefore, if Belgium withdraws, it puts in jeopardy not only Belgium's position, but also the very existence in Europe of a tax on financial transactions. Prime Minister, are you going to be the fosseur of the Tobin tax, the fosseur of elementary fairness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u8	Mr President, I will not address myself to the Prime Minister, but to my associate the route, Charles. Do you remember, Charles, how, together, when you were Minister of Development, we pulled shoulder to shoulder for the tobin tax? You know, Charles, the tobin tax inside and out. You can see through all the arguments put forward by Mr Van Biesen and other opponents. I'm sure of it. They're talking about Sweden. You know that the system is completely different from that in Sweden. They are talking about pension funds. As you know, 80% of transactions by pension funds are exempt and only dangerous transactions are affected. Mr van Biesen was just talking about the guilt. You know that the Commission is presenting a report showing that the introduction of the tobin tax would indeed cost EUR 2 billion to the public authorities, but EUR 4 billion more revenue. What is Mr Van Biesen's problem? His problem is that EUR 4 billion will have to be paid by the financial sector. [[Applause]] That is Mr Van Biesen's problem! Charles, not only your own credibility, but also the credibility of our country is at stake. At the UN General Assembly at the end of September, you said, on behalf of our country, that we are going for a tobin tax, because that is a question of financial justice. That is what we are talking about, Prime Minister, about the credibility of our country and about the credibility of my partner's route of the past. Prime Minister, I'm counting on you. I am counting on you to put your government in order and introduce the tobin tax. That tax will be very good for our country and its people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will address you, but I am also addressing all those for whom honesty is a value that certainly deserves more political attention. When a young couple buys a house, it pays 10 % registration fees. When my son buys a computer game in the store, he pays 21 % VAT. That is why it is normal for strong political leaders in many countries to indicate that there may well be a number of products for which we can ask people for a fair contribution. That contribution should not be too high, namely 0,1 % or for other products 0,01 %. Some opponents then wonder whether this is really necessary and whether this contribution will not disrupt our economy. In the light of the many exceptions, we are trying to avoid a new financial crisis here. Colleagues, what do you think? Do you really believe that Germany has gone completely mad? For certain parties, including the majority, the country is a shining example. Well, Germany is a major promoter of such a financial solidarity mechanism. [[Let's hear it.]] Some people ask whether this will not cost us anything for our retirement? Many pension funds are covered by the exception. I know, however, that in the dossier some people would be happy to know that there are a few fewer Members of Parliament. However, Mr President, Parliament has shown itself on its best side in this respect. As early as 2004, a very broad-based proposal to be a European promoter was adopted here. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was truly touching to hear the European Commission spokesperson, who was here in Parliament. After all, he pointed out that Belgians are good at making an honourable compromise, with which we can make social and economic progress and that the European Commission is also counting on Belgium for this dossier. Mr Prime Minister, my question this afternoon is as follows. Can we continue to count on the entire government to continue the negotiations in order to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion with as many countries as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u10	Prime Minister, Charles, I must say, it is to your credit that you have realised that you were once on the road with bad friends and that you have finally found a warm nest. Prime Minister, I learned a great deal at committee meetings this week. Mr Deseyn. This is the coalition agreement. It states that we will continue to contribute constructively to the gradual introduction and enhanced cooperation. Grosso Modo has two important conditions in it. That is that we are incredibly committed to activities with speculative shares and derivatives, and at the same time we are not naive. We would only introduce this if we could do so with a sufficiently large number of partners. Prime Minister, these two conditions are not met today. I think it's important to give that to you. Mr Moscovici, whom you are pleased to refer to, showed yesterday in the Panama Commission that he does not have a line of defence because that contribution to a fair transaction tax, well, the banks are doing so today. I have a message for Mr Van der Maelen and Mrs Almaci. You spoke just now of EUR 1.2 billion, while it is already EUR 4 billion. Your inflation is a little higher than ours. In any case, for this kind of sum, we are here in the shortest time to re-debate on the jobs in the banking sector. So I would somehow temper my statements a little bit and think about what you are all promoting here. What's in store, Prime Minister, doesn't match the coalition agreement. If the Netherlands and Luxembourg say that they do not have to do so, then it is naive to step in. The banks contribute. Moreover, I find it incredibly interesting to give this to you, and if you are going to do this with some countries, the system is absolutely not anti-frauding. I hope you will agree with me that the coalition agreement is an important element to pursue, including in this dossier, and that you will defend it at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not doing exactly the same reading of the government agreement as Mr. Van de Velde. Belgium, says your government agreement, will continue its constructive contribution to the progressive introduction of a tax on financial transactions under the enhanced cooperation regime. My question is simple. How is the attitude of your government and part of your majority to the proposed financial transaction tax constructive? We've long known your Finance Minister's double game. In January of this year, before the Stock Exchange, he stated that he was going to analyse how to put an end to this tax. And since then, masks have fallen one after the other. We heard Mr. Van Biesen, we heard Mr. Van de Velde. Two parties of your majority, and not the least, have just dissociated themselves from this draft tax on financial transactions and hence from the government agreement. I have heard with pleasure Mr. Deseyn's comments, which reassure me somewhat of the position of the CD&V. I am delighted to hear the MR, who has so far made a point of continuing to support the project, a little like the rope supports the hanger. Mr Prime Minister, I invite you to hear the message from the Commission, which came here, in the walls of the Federal Parliament yesterday afternoon, to remind those who had forgotten that Belgium is a founding member of the European Union, that it is the capital of the European Union, that it has always played a leading role in European integration and that it is desolating itself from the delays of Belgium, which is pulling the brake by hand rather than playing that leading role. Hear the message from Commissioner Moscovici, who showed us yesterday that the draft tax on financial transactions is part of the Commission's triptych for greater transparency, more tax justice and support for the real economy! Prime Minister, return to the European vocation of Belgium! Do not align yourself with Estonia but rather with France, Germany, Italy and Spain, the Eurozone heavy goods vehicles!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister Charles, this has been said: Belgium and nine other Member States of the European Union are cooperating constructively in the progressive introduction of a tax on financial transactions within the framework of enhanced cooperation. Our group has also expressed its willingness to continue the process and to continue to negotiate on the subject. We are therefore entitled to this tax, but only in so far as it complies with certain conditions, which are already laid down in the government agreement. However, in the current state of affairs, there are some elements that raise questions. First of all, while we want a tax focused on speculative transactions, the European Commission currently provides for taxation on all financial transactions. Secondly, the current proposal does not exempt pension funds. We are therefore concerned about pensioners who may be affected. Studies speak of a direct cost of several million euros per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u13	It's marginal!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u14	There is no need to recall, Mr Laaouej, the post-Brexit European economic context and the need for our country to put all the assets on its side in order to capture as many activities and investments as possible from the United Kingdom. As a reminder, our direct neighbours to Benelux, Luxembourg and the Netherlands are not involved in this process. We can also fear an impact on Brussels – our capital, as a financial centre – with risks of relocation and lower attractiveness for our country. Finally, if the opposition let me speak, the system of enhanced cooperation raises a question here. A single market in which two thirds of countries do not apply this measure, especially since these are easily exportable transactions. Mr President, I come to my questions. Prime Minister, we believe in this mechanism and the validity of this tax, but provided that it respects certain principles that I have just mentioned, and does not have a negative impact on the real economy. The European Commission, Prime Minister... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u15	Let Mr Calomne speak! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u16	Does the opposition not want to hear my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u17	Just a moment, Mr. Calomne. Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to Mr Calomne!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u18	So I come to my questions. The European Commission had six months to translate the general principles validated in December 2015 into legal texts. Can you, Prime Minister, inform us about this timetable? Taking into account the elements mentioned here and our constructive willingness to continue this process, what is the government's position on this issue? Could other avenues be explored? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u19	Mr President, beste kameraden, geachte Dirk, perhaps I would like to try to put the context in which this debate is taking place. Mr Van der Maelen, you are right. This is an initiative that has been launched at international level in recent years. Belgium has also played an important role in this. I have expressly stated at the UN that this tax system will be an important step towards greater justice. I therefore confirm without hesitation, with the utmost clarity, on behalf of the four political groups which make up the majority, that we want to support the principle of a tax on financial transactions. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome the enthusiasm with which the opposition is asking us to implement the government agreement quickly. I see it as a sign of support, a sign of trust, and I thank you for that. However, I propose to the opposition - with a great deal of friendship, Mr Van der Maelen - that this afternoon we should read the government agreement not in a partial, selective way, but in a complete manner. Indeed, an intelligent agreement presupposes the existence of some nuances. Mr Dispa, you have shown a surprising demonstration, to say the least, since you have highlighted the first point. I confirm that we will support a constructive approach in the negotiation process at European level, with ten countries. However, you must read everything, including the next paragraph, Mr Dispa. What does the next paragraph say? He says we want to focus on transactions that are speculative in nature. And it must be noted that at this stage, in any case, this is not what is on the table. On the other hand, we want to have the guarantee, the certainty that there is no negative impact on the real economy. As far as I am concerned, I plead that the debate should be spread over, that we should stick to the facts and that we should continue technically, from Belgium, with our partners, to look objectively at the positive impacts and, where appropriate, the negative impacts on the real economy. I suspect that no one here will argue for a tax measure that would have a negative effect and would mean an impoverishment of the population and of the state. At least that is not our choice, that is not our plea. What are the next steps in this process? Over the last few months, the nuclear cabinet and our technicians have worked hard at European level. We will continue to work constructively and creatively to find solutions and to convince more countries that these solutions are pertinent. That's what we're still trying to do. It is for the Austrian Presidency to continue the negotiation work. A few days ago, she decided to postpone the ministerial meeting that was scheduled for December. This is the demonstration, contrary to what I hear here and there, that it is not Belgium – what a fable! – which alone would block the entry into force of this tax. If it were so convincing from a technical point of view and if all solutions were made in terms of impact on the real economy, the other nine countries could without any problems - and without Belgium - announce that they are making progress. But that's not what's going on. In all countries, there are concerns about what we have highlighted. People are concerned about the impact on the real economy, the consequences for a speculative character, the impact on job creation and, in the event of enlargement, the impact on social cohesion. In a word, we support this project constructively and continue our work. Of course, we will remain actively around the table to find solutions that are convincing enough to address the two concerns, objectively, of common sense that have been expressed by the government. I thank the opposition once again for its broad support in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's information is very clear: the N-VA says no to the Tobin tax and the MR goes to bed! [[Brouhahaha]] Yes, but yes! Some truths are disturbing. You're going to bed again in front of the N-VA. At the time of Didier Reynders, the problem was the City of London; now it is Benelux. We'll have heard everything. And then we're told that we want to focus solely on speculative operations. But the Tobin tax was precisely invented to fight speculation and prevent it! We are told that this measure will be expensive. Mr Calomne tells us: "A few million euros", but a few million euros out of tens of billions of euros, what does that mean? It's marginal. Stop using the arguments of the finance lobbies! The real question, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u22	Mr. Miller, stay calm!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u23	Prime Minister, the real question is: Do you have control of your government? We are tired of your statements, which are used to justify, week after week, that you are undressed by your government partners, and more particularly by the N-VA. The tax on financial transactions is not an extra tax, but an ethical requirement for a financial sector that has plunged us into one of the most serious economic crises in our history. That is what the tax on financial transactions is. Stop relaying the arguments of the international finance lobby. We want actions, not speeches!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u24	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, we already knew that this majority has a problem with leadership and cohesion. We already knew that she has a problem with tax justice and tackling speculators in her own country. Now we also know that she has a problem understanding the term constructively. Strange, it is a strange view of constructively when a member of the European Parliament of the N-VA, followed by his party, calls on us to leave the table, after which a European Commissioner calls on our country to cooperate constructively and you come here to say that our country's position throughout the debate is a constructive position and that we are going to sit at the table. That's all very strange. This schizophrenia is going to be a real problem. Here I hear the masses of objections from Open Vld, who once put this issue on the agenda internationally and ambitiously. The objections of N-VA were, of course, to be expected, they are the lobby of the great bank speculators, not the middlemen, not the ordinary citizens in this country. Colleagues, a tax of 0.01% on financial speculation that destroys economies, can we not show a little ambition in this area in Europe? Prime Minister, you are showing today that you are failing to put your foot down. You will be humiliated after your statements on the international stage. You cannot get this majority for tax justice. My appeal to the party chairmen who are also in this House, Mr Beke, Mr De Wever, is to step over those egologists and do what the people demand, in Europe and in their own country, namely to work on fiscal justice, nothing more or less. Everything else is just talk for the often.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, your answer is quite clear. Indeed, the government and this Parliament have expressed their support for continuing negotiations for the introduction of a financial transaction tax. Nothing has changed. The only thing that's changed is the circumstances. Mrs. Almaci, that's your siren song. And it is not the opposition's first proposal to which this applies. That is the only thing you have done here in Parliament for two and a half years: try to harm our economy without hearing any fundamental criticism of introducing such a financial transaction tax. That is why, Prime Minister, I would like to give you an additional mandate. You know that this requires a discussion in the context of the Benelux countries. You will have to talk to your Dutch and Luxembourg colleagues to see to what extent they want to go along with the story, so that they can apply this financial transaction tax with increased force so that it does not harm the economy. Learn that now, Mrs. Almaci, it's not that hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u27	Prime Minister, I have noted your statement. You told us: "Without hesitation, we support the principle of a tax on financial transactions". The problem is that it is not enough to support the principle, Prime Minister. At some point, we must also support the reality of these financial transactions. And that, actually, we don't see it. We're talking about pension funds. This government and this majority dare to talk about pension funds, while it is this government that destroys pensions and attacks pensioners as a matter of priority. It's still serious! They are the victims of your policy! And the pension funds, excuse me, I prefer them not to be speculative, just to guarantee the pensions of tomorrow. What is amazing too is this ability to move from a bad argument to another bad argument. The Minister of Finance has shrunk our ears for weeks or even months with the history of debt. Now that it falls because we have shown that this was not the case, we come with the argument of Brexit, saying that we can't do anything other than Benelux. In a way, this means putting Belgium's position on tax havens responsible for LuxLeaks. It's pretty amazing! In conclusion, we knew that the president of the N-VA had said, "The Voka is my boss." Today we see that Febelfin, the financial lobby, is also the boss of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have bad friends who make false arguments that I expect you to look through, given your history. You have bad friends who have no problem raising the VAT on electricity from 6 to 21 %, but have a problem if you want to charge 0.1 or 0.01 % on financial movements, millions of movements per day, earning billions in one year. To ask for a contribution, that's too much for N-VA and Open Vld. The challenge you face is choosing between the voice of the people, because all polls show that 60% to 70% of Belgians are for a Tobin tax, or the voice of the big money. Charles, you risk losing my friendship if you make the choice for big capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we have learned here this afternoon is that this government and this Prime Minister are still going for it. That deserves all the encouragement. I confirm the Prime Minister's commitment, not only as a good guardian of the coalition agreement, but also the commitment he has expressed to the international community and around which he has worked so actively in the past. We would like to thank him for that. It is true that the current situation is not so easy. There is the Brexit and there are attacks, but we need to be strong in difficult times to find the best solution for everyone. This Prime Minister and this government can do that. I want to finish with an anecdote from a few years ago. Prime Minister, you and I were once in West Africa, in Benin. You were there at the time as Minister of Development Cooperation and I as Head of Delegation. A tribal chief then gave us a staff and a cloak with attributes. I am sure that, in the event of enlargement, many countries will be particularly enthusiastic when they hear that you are driving this strong social correction mechanism and that you will be given the crown next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u30	I should like to thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. I know it hurts for the socialists. In the past, the Institute of Emile Vandervelde was able to dictate what it wanted, but in the meantime there is a government in which there is respect for each other and for the coalition agreement. (Laughter from the opposition)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u31	That's what we're going for. We're gonna go together for that coalition agreement. I know, Mr Van der Maelen, that VAT on electricity hurts, but that's a Freya invoice. You made sure of that yourself. We must solve that problem and we will solve it. With regard to this dossier, Prime Minister, as always, we respect the coalition agreement. I know, Mrs Almaci, that it is incredibly difficult to make abstraction of what is ahead, but we are sticking to what we put in the coalition agreement. That has a name: we are firm in principle. We are not standing here screaming anything in the hope of hitting anything. That's what people do on the Sinksenfoor, but not here. Prime Minister, you have seen that you have many friends. You have many friends, including in Antwerp. Together with Kris Peeters, we're going for it, but we have to be careful not to do what's wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u32	Prime Minister, in substance, I am sorry to you. On all tax files, all financial records, you are obliged to run after the partners of your majority to try to extinguish the fires they fire one after the other when it comes to corporate tax, taxation of capital gains and taxation on financial transactions. I feel sorry for you because by making the big gap, you risk the tear, tearing that we have just seen this afternoon, even if the fracture line is not exactly where we were expecting it. The MR has clearly aligned with the N-VA and the Open Vld. The CD&V is the only one to be consistent with its position in favour of European integration. In this game, Prime Minister, you are a prisoner of a majority who forces you to be ambiguous or, worse still, to be duplicitous. What is at stake, Prime Minister, is your ability to bring this project to a successful conclusion and not to find all the arguments to bury it. Indeed, what we have just witnessed is nothing more or less, I fear, than a first-class funeral. If you fail to bring this project to a successful conclusion, you will disregard the European vocation of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u33	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your clear and unambiguous answer, I would say without hesitation. As you said, the government supports the principle of this tax. Of course, I am pleased that the government is taking into account some of the legitimate concerns that have been raised. Without passion, the positive and negative impacts on the real economy and social cohesion will have to be objectively and constructively analysed. I don't think anyone will be against that idea. Having said that, I do not appreciate the misrepresentation of my remarks, Mr. Laaouej. There's no deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear. Yes, yes, yes to a tax on financial transactions, but which respects the government agreement, protects our real economy and the savings of our pensioners. Mr Laaouej, we are taxing capital under this government. This taxation is much more important than under the Di Rupo government. That is the reality! Mr Laaouej, we dare to do the work you have not done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, environmentalists, as you know, are opposed to CETA, but they are in favour of a clause. This is the one that has been claimed for a very long time. It lies in the fact that Belgium asks the Court of Justice of the European Union whether this CETA, quite simply, is compatible with democracy, before deciding and ratifying this CETA, before our Parliament among others, but also before those of the federated entities. That was the meaning of a resolution that was rejected by the majority here on 3 March. But in politics, we must never despair. At the end of October, in the CETA saga, there was a surprise: the intra-Belgian agreement shows that the federated entities have managed to obtain from you, the federal government, that Belgium is asking for a notice of compliance on CETA, in relation to our values and our European treaties. This was the only real breakthrough in this case. Then, a week ago, in response to a question from a colleague who, by the way, is going to rest his question earlier, it was discovered that you had set two new conditions. You said last week that there was a time condition and an opportunity condition. A condition of time, because you feel that you can only file an application for an opinion before the Court of Justice of the European Union when this Court has ruled on another Treaty, the one concerning Singapore and the European Union. You added that this was also a question of opportunity, because, in your view, it will be a question of whether, at that time, it is appropriate for Belgium to file such an application. So I ask myself this question: was the new CETA that was so much praised by the PS and the CDH just a glamour? Hence, minister, my questions. Where do the seven words added to the sentence "Belgium will seek the opinion on the conformity of CETA with the European Treaties" come from? Seven words, and I can give them to you: "notably in the light of opinion 1/2014 or 2/2015." Have these words been endorsed by the Prevot and Magnette Ministers? Finally, when will you submit the request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u35	Thank you, Mr Hellings, for bringing the debate back today and here. Mr President, Prime Minister, 70% of the citizens interviewed last month support Wallonia and Paul Magnette on the question of CETA. Civil society, many farmers, mutual societies, trade unions as a whole, a multitude of Belgian NGOs and international actors have indeed supported this approach, which led to the new CETA. This action has put public debate and citizen concerns at the centre of the discussions. It is also like this that we fight against populism. And yet, in committee this week, you suggested that Wallonia's action on CETA had tarnished Belgium's image. I regret that, Prime Minister. How dare you, when you see the number of international supporters Mr. Magnette received? I come to today's debate, namely the referral to the European Court of Justice on CETA. I've already asked you about this last week. I was alone, before some woke up today. Will you indeed, Prime Minister, be the one who will endanger federal loyalty, which I thought you were the guarantor of? I can't believe it, I can't believe it. I will not fall into the populism of some. To silence these criticisms, Prime Minister, I have a proposal to make to you: table today, at the end of this plenary session, the referral for the opinion of the European Court of Justice! You are asking the Court to do so when reading previous, current and future judgments. You can do it. This will silence all criticisms and show that you are loyal and respect this agreement. So, Prime Minister, when are you going to table this referral for the opinion of the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank both speakers because once again I will try to clarify this important issue. I do not intend to reopen the debate on CETA itself. We conducted this debate in Parliament, and I explained it to myself in committee, Mr Crusnière. What is it? We have indeed, in intra-Belgian relations, at the start of the Conciliation Committee, decided to express a number of statements together in connection with CETA. Among these statements, one has been widely distributed. It's not a secret agreement. It's not a confidential agreement. It is a public statement which, in fact, was intended to take into account a concern of one of the federated entities. So we could consider asking for an opinion and I read out the text you mentioned, Mr Hellings: "Belgium will ask for an opinion from the Court of Justice of the European Union on the compatibility of the ICS mechanism with the European treaties, in particular in the light of opinion A2/2015". Little anecdote, on the mention, there was a material error that was corrected. There is no doubt, it was done with full consent. This is intended to give an opinion on the European Union's competence in relation to the Treaty concerning Singapore. There is no doubt about that. No one contests the reasoning in this regard. But, Mr Crusnière, when a negotiated agreement word by word, to the decimal point, expressly states: "In the light of opinion A2/2015", this means that, in order to give an opinion, the document in question must be available. You also welcomed the reply I made last week when I said that this opinion should be taken into account in order to start the procedure in question. I have done nothing but explain in other words the content of the intra-Belgian agreement. On this point, I will be clear, because I do not want any intra-Belgian controversy in this regard. Loyalty must be total on this point. I said several days ago that the Foreign Minister was already launching the process. For seeking an opinion from the Court of Justice requires a rather cumbersome and complex legal procedure, including the drafting of refined documents from a legal point of view. It'll take a little time. I confirm once again that we are now launching inter-federal technical meetings, including on this point, in order to be able, in due course, "in the light of the decision to be given concerning Singapore", to assess legally how we are making the request for an opinion to the European Court of Justice. In order to be complete and avoid misunderstandings, I would like to add another intra-Belgian point of discussion which will have to be discussed calmly in the Conciliation Committee. In order to issue a request for an opinion on a jurisdictional ICS mechanism, the modalities must be known. We have referred to the principles, but the modalities will be part of a proposal to be submitted by the European Commission in the course of 2017. I believe that the Conciliation Committee will also have to assess the document which the Commission will have to table and send to the various Member States. I would like to cut short any controversy that would be unfortunate on the subject. In the coming weeks, we will work faithfully with the federated entities in order, when the time comes, and in the light of the decision to be taken on Singapore, to issue this request for an opinion. Mr Crusnière, this does not correspond to the agreement of the Conciliation Committee, where I was present. And I wrote the sentence, Mrs. Onkelinx! I do not accept that this sentence should be reinterpreted to indicate that this opinion could be sought without the opinion of the European Court of Justice concerning Singapore. If we say 'in the light', it is in order to be informed in the argument that underpins the opinion, thanks to the opinion to be given by the European Court of Justice on the 'jurisdictional mechanisms' aspect. Things seem clear to me about this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u37	The new CETA has just done "pschit". One of you, Mr. Michel or Mrs. Onkelinx, is not telling the truth. Prime Minister, it doesn't matter if you rolled the PS or cdH. It doesn't matter if the PS and the cdH didn't understand what they agreed to. The popular demand is clear. Belgium must ask whether this CETA is compatible with democracy and only the Court of Justice of the European Union can do so. Do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u38	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We often hear about a "new deal". I would like to say that this was not the only step forward in the agreement. There is still an interpretative instrument and ten statements, you forget it! However, Prime Minister, there is one point on which I absolutely disagree with you. The text says "will ask in the light of" and not "may ask in the light of". This is the point of discord! On the opportunity, you no longer have to judge! The debate has taken place within the intra-Belgian agreement and you must now ask for the European Court of Justice's referral and opinion. Do it now by asking for it to be done in the light of the stops. If you don't, we're going to face many problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note that this country currently has three foreign excellences, namely the Minister for Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders, Secretary of State Pieter De Crem and Prince Laurent. That the latter is an experienced expert, we already knew that. In 2011 he met in Congo with President Kabila's government. He also had contacts with Libyan diplomats. In 2013, he had contacts with Angolan diplomats, and recently met the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka. I see that he is not here, but perhaps we can suggest to the Foreign Minister that he recruit Prince Laurent as a top diplomat. That way we will not have to pay any more donations. I remember the debate in this Chamber in 2011. After the Congo incident, the majority of the parties were forced out of their minds. Today, I see that the current government covers many of the royal family's rattles with the cloak of love. I am thinking, among other things, of the Amadeogate, of the absence of members of the royal family on 21 July and of the interference in the Kazachgate. I would like to remind you that in 2013 a law was passed in this half-round in which it is clear that the members of the royal family should seek permission from the Minister of Foreign Affairs when they wish to contact foreign excellence. Mr Reynders' reply was clear on this point: no consent has been requested, and no consent has been given. The law provides for a penalty, which is a deduction from the dotation. If it's up to me, it may also be the retention of the dotation. I come to my specific questions, Prime Minister. Will the government impose sanctions on this matter? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, you are right, since 2013 there has been a law on the donations to the members of the royal family. To be precise, Articles 16, 17 and 18 regulate the principle that if a member of the royal family wants to go abroad and meet political authorities with a possible political significance, or want to have a political discussion in Belgium with a head of state or a minister, that member will indeed have to ask the Foreign Minister's agreement to do so. The Minister of Foreign Affairs must then give permission to do so. That is the correct interpretation of the 2013 legislation. In the present circumstances, that is, as far as Sri Lanka is concerned, the prince did not ask for the Foreign Minister's agreement and did not receive it. If he'd asked for an agreement, he'd have gotten it. With regard to Sri Lanka, there is no doubt about this, and this is in line with the previous agreements given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, a mistake has been made, I want to make that clear. That is why I asked the Foreign Minister to remind the Prince of the law and the formal rules. In short, I have asked Minister Reynders to call the prince to order. There is indeed the principle of proportionality. What has happened is not acceptable and we will be paying particular attention in the future. If there is another problem in the future, it is possible to draw its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, although I am very disappointed. A 2013 law! In 2011, Prince Laurent himself said that he realized that he had made mistakes and that sanctions had to be against them. Now there's a law and every Belgian has to respect the law, including our prince. I must say, Prime Minister, that the royal family cannot imagine a better Prime Minister. Let us take a look at the 2017 budget. The costs to be borne by the civil list will be borne by the budget; the security installation and maintenance of Ciergnon will now no longer be paid by the Royal Gift, but the taxpayer will have to pay for it; the annual savings on the amounts of 2% will not be made, their donations will be indexed and increased. You are very generous with the monarchy, Mr. Prime Minister. I wonder if you might be fishing for a noble title. Charles Baron Michel, that sounds very nice. And the look, you already have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u42	Prime Minister, the government said from the beginning that the real commitment of the government would be jobs, jobs, jobs. That's the mantra of our government. That's the thread of everything she does. If we look today at the report on the number of jobs created over the last two years, we must say that the government keeps its word. 100 000 were created under the blue Michel. That's something to be proud of. Why do we do that? We do that because jobs are the engine of our economy, because jobs are the best protection against poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also show some modesty. It's not the government that creates the jobs. It is the entrepreneurs of our country, who take risks every day, who use their capital to create jobs. In other words, it is the small, medium-sized and large entrepreneurs who have produced this result. I am aware that there is sometimes a peculiar reasoning in Parliament. In the booklets one declares love to the entrepreneurs. Green says in Trends: "We are the party of entrepreneurs." There are even those who crawl on Marc Coucke's lap in a television studio. Mr Calvo, politics is being made here. We need to talk about entrepreneurs here. This is where color has to be known. Prime Minister, there is a constant. From here to there [[points to PS, sp.a, PTB and Ecolo-Green]] , every week we come up with proposals for new taxes for entrepreneurs. We are very creative, Mr Calvo: the capital tax, the rich tax, the added value tax. There's even a proposal for a robot tax. All these taxes destroy jobs instead of creating them; all these taxes indicate that the entrepreneurs, to which you refer in the booklets, are condemned instead of respected. That's the essence. Prime Minister, the reforms needed in our country must ensure that more jobs are added, that the low-skilled in our country can also get more jobs through more flexibility, through more night work, through more e-commerce. That's what it takes. Mr Prime Minister, when will the draft e-commerce and night work laws, which are due to translate the forthcoming reforms, come to Parliament so that we can adopt them as soon as possible and also give low-skilled workers the prospect of a job in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u43	I ask for the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u44	No, that's not a personal fact. Don't exaggerate. [[Objection]] Mr De Roover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u45	Prime Minister, the report by the National Bank indicates, as has just been said, that more than 100 000 jobs have already been created under the current government. These are 100 000 people, who are re-involved in the economy, 100 000 people who are stronger and, for example, can stay out of poverty. To put that number in perspective, this will certainly interest the left side, the government creates as many jobs in one quarter as Di Rupo in a full reign. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u46	Please continue, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u47	That leads to some excitement on the left. I understand that very much. There's still a huge difference. While Mr Di Rupo's instruments have led to a loss and barely growth in the private sector, two thirds of jobs are now created in the active, private sector, indicating a living economy. Thirdly, there is sometimes the impression that 100 000 jobs are involved, but it is also an increase in full-time jobs. Besides, according to some, it is still better to get benefits than, for example, to have a part-time job. That is not our belief. (Protests from Mr Calvo)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u48	Mr De Roover, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u49	In order to avoid Mr Calvo interrupting me, I decided not to mention his name, but that does not seem to be an argument for him. He even invokes a personal fact if he isn't mentioned. That's natural, because he cares very much about everything. In any case, the statistics must make us look beyond the performance we have already achieved. That is why I shall be asking the questions, Prime Minister, that our country still has 2 million inactive people, is partly promoted, because the gap between working and not working is still too small in certain circumstances and our employment rate is not rising sufficiently, because, compared to other countries, we are faced with above-average immigration, a challenge which requires very specific measures. Prime Minister, we are absolutely on the right track. That is what the figures show, but what elements will prevent the delta from getting bigger and what lessons do you draw?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed made a lot of decisions in the last two years. More than 200 legislative texts have been tabled in Parliament, resulting in occasionally difficult discussions and difficult debates, but with a clear political choice. We remain convinced that job creation is the key and the right answer to the important challenges ahead. More than 100 000 jobs were created. They reduce poverty and increase purchasing power for our citizens, contribute to social cohesion and ensure the financing of social security. I confirm that we want to do more and do even better. Following efforts on the tax shift and structural reforms, we will take additional initiatives. Over the next few weeks, following the agreement at first reading in the Council of Ministers, we will be submitting various legislative texts in the context of the flexibilisation and strengthening of our labour market, including night work in the e-commerce sector and the reform of the 1996 law, so that our companies can take a sustainable place in a competitive world. These important points will undoubtedly soon be the subject of interesting debates in Parliament. However, there is a strong political will to achieve additional results. Mr President, I have one final important point. We are now about two years away, almost in half the legislative term. I am convinced that we will have to make even more structural decisions in the coming months and years, to do even more, to do better. That is our commitment and our intention. I thank those who are convinced with us that job creation remains the best key to achieving results for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u51	Mr Prime Minister, I would of course like to thank you for your reply. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that freedom and flexibility are indeed the key words for creating more jobs. Flexibility is needed because there is a whole group in our society, which is not getting enough work done today, especially the low-skilled workers. All the numbers prove that. It is therefore necessary that we also allow jobs for the low-skilled. I therefore find it regrettable that any step taken by the government towards greater flexibility is dismissed by the opposition as social degradation. People use the word McDonald's Jobs all the time. That is what people constantly say, when the reality is that we create too few jobs in our country. Instead of calming our consciences by providing benefits of all kinds, we need to focus on even more jobs, because jobs are the best guarantee of purchasing power and poverty reduction. Prime Minister, you have our full support for continuing on that path, because that is the only path to the future for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u52	The fact that joob growth is mainly in the private sector shows that we are making a fundamental move from what was a strong state-led economy to what should once again be a market-led economy. That is, of course, a huge difference from the previous approach. Let me mention in this context that we have just received the message that unemployment in Flanders has been falling to 4.1 % for 16 months. That is almost full employment. It's a fall, every month again, making people find a future again, a job. On the other hand, last week we were able to read another note in the newspaper, which sounded very harsh, in the light of the fact that a professional accused the government of being a great amateur. In fact, last week, the French-speaking newspapers handed over this professionally: "Le chômage jamais baissé" and "Wallonie depuis 23 ans" ('Le chômage jamais baissé'). I think it's high time we broke that bad history.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no ministers here anymore. (Minister Bellot comes in.) Mr. Secretary, that was close. Be Seated . That means, of course, that two other ministers are too late, of which I take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u54	Mr President, you will give me a little time, since I have five questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u55	Yes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u56	Mr President, Minister, Le Soir of this Thursday gives a first approach to a study commissioned by the Brussels Region to researchers from the Free University of Brussels on what, if you say so, could be described as a major disorder in the organisation of air routes from Brussels-National Airport. In short, this study confirms what the neighbourhood committees, the residents, the Brussels authorities and the mayors have for a long time denounced - namely that the determination of the air routes was decided in spite of common sense and at the sole discretion of the interests of certain categories of the population, without objective analysis. We have airways which, deliberately, for partisan political reasons, have been favoured and which expose densely populated neighbourhoods to major risks, not only to their health, but also in terms of air accidents. In reading your general policy note, I admit that I have not found a clear will to put order, on objective grounds, in the organisation of the air routes at the landing or take-off of Brussels-National, nor have I seen any mention of the establishment of an independent body responsible for monitoring compliance with the airways or the limitation of the night operation of the airport, respect for the European night, or even the outright ban on flights at night until 06:00. I think it's time to take this case with you, minister. I know you're still going to make sure that you're working together. The truth is that it may be necessary to hear what international experts, particularly in the international civil aviation organization, are advocating in terms of the determination of air routes in terms of safety and compliance with international standards. I ask you, minister: you can no longer defer this matter. It is time to specify once and for all your choices and preferences in air policy. Will you finally take into account what the experts say and stop hearing only the voice of those who, in the name of an economic interest – which must not be neglected, of course – claim that all the nuisances and disadvantages must be brought to bear on the inhabitants of Brussels and its immediate periphery?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u57	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today your Brussels colleague, Mrs Fremault, is making an interesting contribution to this issue of air pollution around and on Brussels. She's acting. This is not the first time; it had already acted on noise pollution, on infringements of the noise pollution legislation in Brussels. She's acting, but we can't see anything coming from your side. Not only do you not see anything coming from your side, but we learn, at the turn of this study, that Belgocontrol refused to support this study. This is not the first time that Belgocontrol has shown its opacity. I'd say it's even become a bit the custom in Belgocontrol. We thus remembered – without asking too much for our memory since it is quite recent – that you had promised an audit of Belgocontrol on this famous extremely serious incident where two aircraft almost televised on 5 October last. You promised an audit, and I was glad, but I was surprised that it was necessary to get to an audit, even though your administration has control over Belgocontrol and should be able to have this information continuously. Minister, my question today is simple. Do you have the results of this audit? Did you get the information you wanted from Belgocontrol? Have you been aware of its results? When will we be able to share the results, in the case of a public company that has been learned to be wary of, because its management is opaque and because the choice of air routes does not seem to correspond to the regulations and rules in force with regard to the choice of air routes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u58	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk about something other than Canada. Let's talk about Brussels. My questions will be significantly different from those of my colleagues as they will relate to the strategic plan 2040, which was recently presented by Brussels Airport and which plans to "double the turnover of the airport, from 3.2 billion euros today to 6.4 billion euros". My question is simple. Will not such a massive increase in the airport mean a massive increase in movements? How do you see the reconciliation between your objective, which is that of everyone here - Flemish, Walloon, Brussels - with your objective of reducing noise nuisances? Of course, the national airport is not a completely public undertaking, but federal interests through the SFPI exist. Will you, through our Finance Minister, give instructions to our shareholders, to our representatives on the Brussels Airport Board of Directors to ensure that the balance between economic development and the protection of citizens through safety and the environment is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u59	Mr Minister, it will be recalled that during the last election campaign in 2014, your party, the MR, was driving mechanics on the issue of noise nuisances related to Brussels airport. Today, unfortunately, we have to see that these were promises in the air, which, in the end, is not bad. Anyway, we lost two years with Jacqueline Galant. And the question for the population is whether three more years will be lost with Mr. Bellot. The problem of noise pollution associated with Brussels airport is indeed a complex problem involving many different players. And unfortunately, there is no magic solution. However, Minister, doing nothing is not an answer. It is not because a problem is difficult that political immobilism is an acceptable answer. For people who experience noise pollution on a daily basis, it is a public health and quality of life problem. Minister, therefore, you need to get out of your immobilism and propose objective solutions. Overflights of the most populated areas must be reduced and wind standards must be applied in a transparent manner. The study carried out by the Free University of Brussels shows that the organisation of overflight routes has not been conceived in the general interest. You, Minister, must respond to the various findings of this study in order to put in place objective solutions that guarantee aviation safety and reduce noise nuisances for as many people as possible. Minister, what are your proposals to reduce the overflight of the most densely populated areas? I am thinking here, of course, of the Brussels people. When are you going to set up an independent noise control authority? This is essential to improve the application of wind standards, which causes much controversy among the residents of Runway 01. I am thinking in particular of the municipalities concerned in my province, namely the Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u60	Mr President, Minister, for my part a slightly different approach, as you may suspect. Since a few weeks we have known the expansion plans of the airport. For employment in the Flemish region and in Brussels, the airport could be a blessing with its expansion, but the opposite is threatening, Mr Minister, because, let us be clear, you clearly have no control over things. From 1 January, noise standards will be even more stringent in Brussels. Mayors from the Rand unanimously argue for a conflict of interest and the Flemish government follows them. There is still no flying law, although it would have been there more than a year ago. In my region the route Leuven Straight ahead was still not evaluated. Even so, you refuse to consider Belgocontrol's evaluation. You've literally said that. In short, because of the inability of this federal government, the most important employment pool in the Flemish region is in danger of being destroyed and the same Flemish region is threatened with noise pollution, Minister. I would therefore like to ask you very clearly when you will finally start a real consultation with the regions in order to achieve a fair and fair distribution of noise pollution and to distribute the costs and benefits fairly across all regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u61	Colleagues, this overflight issue is a long-term issue. According to the ULB study, it has lasted for forty years. I can compare it to a long-term patient and it's not an aspirin that we're going to treat him, even if the specialists are looking at his case. When I came to the government seven months ago, I found that the methods of the past had not provided satisfactory solutions, because they were too often guided by local interests, thus shifting problems rather than seeking a structural solution based on equity and the concept of sustainable development, with its three components: social, economic and environmental. I read and hear that everyone wants to support employment, but there are many who want to postpone the noise at the neighbour, in Flanders, in Brussels and in Wallonia. I'm sure I've decided to find a balanced solution. I can, of course, understand certain forms of impatience, but, as I said, time is very important not to fall into the failures of the past. Based on this observation, I have been working since my arrival on the basis of a completely different method, based on two elements. First of all, an analysis of the decisive components is needed in the search for a structural solution. It is the addition of positive actions in each component that will enable the structural and equitable solution to be found. This process is being completed, including the establishment of an independent authority, a procedural law and many other solutions. I hope and look forward to seeing you all in the hope that they will submit, since everyone says that experts must be called upon, to the recommendations that these independent authorities will make regardless of the choice of solutions they will make. Moreover, it is the consultation with all parties and the cooperation of the levels of power on this package that will enable it to be implemented. This consultation started with the meetings of associations and mayors in June will soon intensify. Common sense and the collective interest remain on the count. This morning, I read in the press about the outcome of the study carried out by the ULB at the request of the Brussels Region and its minister. This study seems to share my analysis of the failures of the past and the need to follow a completely different approach. This study therefore confirms the relevance of the path in which I have entered since I took office. This study will certainly be able to complement all the analyses and reports already studied by my firm to date. Therefore, in the spirit of consultation that has been inspiring me since the beginning, and after having already met with many associations of residents, but also with other actors involved in the overflight file, I will invite Minister Céline Fremault to present me with the detailed results of the ULB study. The Regions must cooperate in a collective interest. According to my information, Belgocontrol had contacts with the researchers and, subject to the availability of the requested data and a commitment to confidentiality, I agreed that Belgocontrol was open to collaboration. This does not seem to have materialized and I will ask for the reasons. As for the audit that I requested from the Air Transport Branch (ATB), it was not requested following the October 5 incident, Mr. Dallemagne, because at the time we requested this audit, this incident was not yet known. The purpose of the audit was to ensure that the provisions contained in the instructions and in the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) in force from 2 to 10 October were effectively implemented by Belgocontrol as part of the implementation of the Preferred Runway System (PRS) during that period. Following the receipt of this data which my staff have analysed, I will convene a meeting between Belgocontrol and DGTA to begin the second phase, that of the explanations, namely why Belgocontrol has decided to depart from the rules of the IPA, knowing that safety prevails. Third, measures should be proposed to prevent this from happening again when there is no reason for this deviation from the PRS. You also asked me about the ambitions for the development of economic activities at Brussels Airport. You should know that BAC is a private company that determines its strategy completely autonomously. It seeks to grow and, in this context, has prepared its strategic development plan that does not involve the federal or regional governments. I refer you to my reply to the plenary meeting on 17 November. As far as environmental impact assessments are concerned, I have not been informed that such studies would have already been carried out for the implementation of this strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u62	Mr Minister, in this matter, you have succeeded a colleague who has been particularly unwilling to volunteer to bring about a dossier which, for 40 years and under different ministers, has not undergone a very favourable development for the benefit of the people. I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. I hope you won't be Dr. Placebo, 'cause I hear you need more than an aspirin. I also hope that you will not come with a false solution. I hear you're calling on experts. We will see the outcome of your experts, but at some point it will require political will. And the political will, for example, is to have the courage to say yes to the ban on night flights. It is to the benefit of the inhabitants of the three regions! The Flemish, the Brussels, the Walloons want to sleep calmly! There is no one who is privileged or discredited if everyone can finally sleep at least until six o'clock in the morning, at best seven o'clock. That would be a great advantage for all citizens. That is the political will that is expected of you! If you are working in this direction, you may want to write your name, if not at the Brussels-National Airport front line, to that of the ministers who have finally solved this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u63	Minister, thank you. You're giving us crucial information. At the time of this serious security incident on 5 October, since your audit covered the period from 2 to 10 October, Belgocontrol knowingly departed from the instructions of the IPAs. Belgocontrol did not observe the law, did not observe the rules, and we approached a major air incident. I hear that Parliament receives the conclusions of this audit. This is a safety issue, it is an environmental issue. The residents will ask, as the law permits, the conclusions of this audit. I believe that Parliament must also be informed. I expect you to provide us with the findings of this audit. As for the surplus, I appreciated the way in which you began to start this issue of air pollution because indeed your predecessor had been catastrophic. But you had announced transparency. We're far from it. We can see it with Belgocontrol. You proposed a dialogue. You're finally going to receive Minister Fremault. I welcome this, but I think that this dialogue should take place in a structural way. You had announced results. We're still a long way from it today. Truly, Mr. Bellot, you have called for patience, but you know that patience, especially the patience of the Brussels people who feel left behind in this case, is at an end. On the other hand, I am concerned that the concept of densely populated areas that appears in the government agreement is now being deleted from your general policy note. That means you left out the demands of the Brussels people. I wonder and am concerned about this omission, what I hope to be an oblivion in your general policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u64	Mr President, Minister, from the moment an airport plans to double its capacity, there is a great risk that the noise pollution associated with this economic activity will increase drastically. I strongly encourage you, before the airport makes these arrangements and increases its size, to order impact assessments to see where we're going. It is not a question of choosing between, on the one hand, employment and, on the other hand, only peace of mind and the environment. For the Greens, it is a matter of giving a sense of priority in the structural solutions that you are going to bring. And for us, Ecolo-Groen, it is first and foremost safety, then health and the environment and, finally, the economy. But it's in that order. If you apply this sense of priority, then a structural solution accepted by the Flemish, Brussels and Walloons will be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u65	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. You're consulting; you're using experts. You're talking about a long-term job. That's good, but at some point we'll have to make decisions. Minister, as the minister responsible, I hope you realize that immobilism cannot last until the end of this Parliament. This is certainly a difficult case. I said it and I recognize it. But one day you'll have to get out of the woods, even if it won't please everyone in your majority. We must have courage because the current situation, particularly with regard to wind standards, cannot last any longer. People on the fly are waiting for concrete solutions to improve their daily lives. Know that their patience has limits!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u66	Mr Minister, the methods of the past clearly do not work, that is correct. But yours doesn't work either, apparently. A minister could at least be expected to try to solve problems in a concrete way. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to point out that your number, all of us, both economically and decibels, will be the victims. Now you have to stop cackling, it's time for you to lay an egg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday your policy paper was discussed in committee, which focuses on the future and on the measures to be taken in 2017. Today, however, we have to consider what all the rail passengers have been through in recent weeks and days. I have a press release from Infrabel about fourteen days ago, which says: Belgian rail network ready for autumn and winter. If I compare the stories I have heard over the last few days and weeks, then I think the situation is quite dramatic. I can refer to the beautifully written piece by journalist René van Munster, which is in the newspaper today, about his experiences of the train journeys between Tienen and Kobbegem. I can also refer to my colleague Stefaan Vercamer, who did the story on his Facebook page this week about his experiences, where he enjoyed the train for two and a half hours longer than he intended. I can refer to a train traveller from the Kempen, who e-mailed me and said that he has not arrived in Brussels at the right time on his daily commuting trip in the last 14 days. I can add thousands of stories of travelers complaining about the reliability of our trains. The statistics confirm that. The 2016 statistics are not good. The statistics go back in the direction of the worst figures ever, those of 2013. That is very bad, especially after a serious improvement has appeared in recent years. I could ask you, Minister, what are the causes of this, but the traveller does not really have a message about it. Whether it's a damaged overhead line, a car fire, people on the tracks or failing signals, people just want to be on time. If we're looking for those responsible, it's hard to ask for the CEO's resignation, because that wouldn't get us much further either. My question, Minister, is therefore very specific as to what measures you wish to take. What do you propose, so that the train traveller can rely on more precise trains and good communication about them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u68	Minister, the Belgians have a great desire, that of the train. The problem is that this great desire is upset by the punctuality of the trains; today the Metro newspaper mentions it on the front page. The situation on the railways is deteriorating. Delays are increasing, making it difficult for many commuters, who arrive late at work, and who are sometimes not sure whether to return home at an hour's notice. However, Minister, at the time of the previous plan put in place at the end of 2014, the timetables had been changed to allow longer journey times to take account of the impact of the increasing number of passengers and trains put into service, in order to avoid any risk of congestion. The staff in charge of the management of the Brussels stations managed this growing traffic as best they could. However, at the Brussels-Central station, as you know, Minister, trains are often obliged to park in the corridors, waiting for the docks to be released by another train. Users must take their pains in patience early in the morning, to finally see their train arrive late, sometimes after the one who was after them in the schedule. This creates confusion, running from dock to dock, difficulties for less able people and, sometimes, stress. On the journey there too, the durations are becoming longer and longer, sometimes up to twice the transport time, in trains often in undercapacity in view of the number of cars and places foreseen by the SNCB itself, even worsened by the abolition or long delay of certain trains, forcing some passengers to travel standing on the whole route. Mr. Minister, we highly appreciate your method, your calmness, your serenity, your listening and the fact that you wanted to deal first with the facts before finding solutions. So I'm going to ask you my questions. Can you tell us the share of reasons independent of SNCB and Infrabel in the multiplication of these delays? Can you give us more details on the reasons given? By what time will the new cars and engines, which will improve things, be on the track? Finally, you asked for a manager to be appointed to supervise the lines most affected by these delays since Liège, Namur and Mons in particular; when will these people be operational? Thank you, Minister. I know it's not easy because you often have to arbitrate between Infrabel and SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u69	Thank you for your questions. I did pull the alarm bell. A long series of successive incidents on the track have caused a great deal of delay in recent days and weeks. The situation is also less good in the longer term. According to SNCB and Infrabel, several external factors have affected the regularity of traffic: the increase in the phenomenon of trespassing, accidents of persons, bomb warnings among others. The fall in punctuality yesterday was objectively confirmed by the railway companies. The punctuality in October was 86.2 %. That is as much as 3 % less than in 2015. But behind this global figure is a completely different reality for peak hours on certain lines. This is the time when more travellers are suffering the effects. I have asked the two railway companies for more information on the incidents and their causes. It is intended that the analysis will clarify the points where there is a real structural problem and the points where the cause of the delay is due to external causes. This negative development must be stopped in terms of delay. Behind the figures, there are travellers who are entitled to a correct service. It is the duty of both societies. The time for explanations and excuses is over. Now I want solutions. Too often, railway companies report information about an incident to me; that is not enough. I want solutions to be advanced. For its part, the government is taking the necessary steps. For example, it ordered new M7 trains for EUR 1.1 billion. Delivery of the equipment is scheduled to start, unfortunately, at the end of 2018. Solutions cannot be found without cooperation. I want SNCB and Infrabel to work together to find solutions to improve customer service and real-time communication. I did indeed ask the two delegated administrators to appoint, within their company, a manager for each line of the network that suffers from a problem of punctuality. This official will be responsible for monitoring incidents on this line in collaboration with his counterpart from the other company and for developing concrete solutions to improve structurally the punctuality of this line. These people will have to be operational as soon as possible. I also want the management committees and the boards of SNCB and Infrabel to meet in a structural manner. The objective is the same: to ensure coordinated decision-making between the two companies, which give priority to commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u70	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, for your commitment and for the steps you have already taken. You have our full support for this. Yesterday, we were told by the opposition that we would cripple you. I think this was more about their own functioning, because the opposite is true. We just want to give you an extra pair of wings, so that there can quickly be a better train service based on clear management agreements and with a new strong lead, so that we can offer the commuters better and more punctual trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that October is particularly bad. If we average from January to October, the situation is less negative. Nevertheless, you have also been the victim of a series of incidents involving people on the roads, which have caused a deterioration in the statistics. To answer my colleague from Sp.a, Vice-President of the House, who wondered if I was taking the train: yes, I take it every day. So I can check the situation. The minister knows how much I pay attention to the problems that arise on a daily basis. But precisely, and this was the beginning of my speech, it is because the Belgians have a desire for a train that we must respond positively to this desire. And we're counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u72	Madam Secretary: Keine Kompromisse! That is what Mr Schulz said in a debate this week. What was he talking about, Madam Secretary? He was talking about the nuclear power plant in Tihange and safety. He literally said that there can be no compromise on security. And: the power station in Tihange must umgehend , immediately, immediately , Madam Secretary, close. That is what Mr Schulz, President of the European Parliament, together with Mr Remmel, the Minister for the Environment of North Rhine-Westphalia, said this week in a debate. You were also invited to that debate, Madam Secretary. Minister Jambon was also invited. The FANC was also invited. However, none of the three have been there. None of the three felt it necessary to answer the obvious questions of your German colleagues. None of them! Madam Minister, you could take an example from Mr Schulz and Mr Remmel. For they do answer the questions of their people. There are many signals being given. There are the sharp letters from the FANC, our FANC, to the CEO of Engie-Electrabel, pointing out the shameless nonchalance of nuclear safety policy, the numerous irregularities, and the fact that Tihange's blueprints are simply circulating on the darknet. Madam Secretary, foreign countries have had enough of your nuclear energy policy. I would remind you of the complaint made by some Dutch municipalities to the European Commission this spring against the opening of nuclear power stations in Doel. I would also remind you of the 90 municipalities in Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u73	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u74	This is very important, Mr President. 90 municipalities want the FANC to go to court because of Tihange 2. The German state of North Rhine-Westphalia stores thousands of iodine tablets because it does not believe in our security and our energy policy. Madam Secretary, when you are invited to explain this, send your cat!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u75	Your questions, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u76	I come to my questions, Mr President. After all, you will have to give an answer to the President of the European Parliament. What answer will you give to the President of the European Parliament and to the German Minister for the Environment in relation to your energy policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u77	Dear colleague, you first set the context in which this meeting took place. If my information is correct, it took place on November 30th. I was invited, but I couldn't get there. Indeed, as I explained, I am dealing with energy, energy supply, and not nuclear safety – which falls within the competence of my colleague Jan Jambon, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Mr Schultz's presence is in a somewhat special context, since he is planning to resign from his European office to return to Germany. Whether you like it or not, it is a German question. Second, actions relating to the security of power plants are likely to be brought before the competent Belgian court by foreign bodies or legal persons. They concern Mr. Jambon, since he has that competence. Therefore, I will certainly not comment on any pending trials, for the sake of the simple reason that the principle of separation of powers must be respected. Here's my two answers. I therefore invite you to question my colleague Jambon in the subcommittee on nuclear safety, where the problems you have raised with regard to AFCN and the darknet have been worked out at length a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u78	Madam Secretary, your answer is really not very good. Do you think the people will accept this? You are simply saying that it is not your competence and that you are responsible for nuclear energy. What happens to the nuclear power stations, you do not care. You are being interviewed by the President of the European Parliament to explain Belgium's energy policy, to explain why you are keeping the nuclear power stations open. You are replying to me that you have nothing to do with this and that your colleague, Mr Jambon, is competent. Excuse me? Aren't you in the same government? Can't you talk to your colleague Jambon? This is yet another signal, Madam Secretary, that you are ignoring. I don't have to go to the Nuclear Safety Commission. I have to talk to you about your energy policy. You could take an example from your German colleagues and answer questions. But what is your problem, Madam Secretary? You have no energy policy, that is your problem. So you can't answer, that's your problem. Over and over again, you simply move on and refuse to reply to Parliament. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u79	Don't scream, I can hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u80	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian frigate Louise-Marie yesterday, in the context of the European mission Sophia to stop the smuggling of human beings between North Africa, Libya and Europe, caught 172 refugees from the sea off the Libyan coast. This was done in international waters, and you will want to explain this later, and these people may have been dropped on European soil. Cynic, of course, because that means, while we have the task of stopping human trafficking there, we are actually facilitating human trafficking and helping smugglers. Indeed, once they have their ships in international waters, there are all kinds of boats from European countries that bring refugees to Europe where they naturally want to go. Surely the Belgian Navy cannot function as a kind of free water taxi, a kind of ferry from Libya to Europe to bring all these refugees here? I do know that your captain and his crew, inspired by the best intentions, have helped people in difficult circumstances. They couldn't possibly be drowned. I fully understand that, and I would have liked to have said that before you put all kinds of intentions into my hands again that I do not have. On the other hand, it is equally cynical to see that it is doing exactly what those smugglers want, namely their clients, who pay a lot of money for it, to bring to Europe. My question is therefore to what extent this task still makes sense. To what extent do we do what we really want to do? Don't we facilitate the human smugglers? You will be happy to answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u81	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, the Belgian frigate Louise-Marie is taking part in the Sophia operation. This is essentially a Europe-coordinated operation aimed at exposing and eventually dismantling smuggling networks at different stages. If this is to be done, we must, of course, go to the region in order to gather the necessary information and to roll up these smuggling networks upstream. This is also the first mission of our frigate, present there. Three different boats were intercepted, namely a boat with 30 people on board, including 2 children under 4 years of age, a boat with 142 people on board and a boat with no more people on board. These boats were found about 5 miles apart and investigated. They had left the same port, albeit not together. It's a strange story. The story that the passengers have to tell is, of course, essential if the criminals who are behind such a network are to be able to catch and pay for what they are doing. Mr Dewinter, those on board, who you say cannot be drowned, were handed over to the authorities this morning in Palermo. In the meantime, I have been able to look at the information they have been able to provide, and it is essential information to arrive at the source of this problem in the end. If such a situation is to be resolved, we must, of course, catch those who are behind it. If you think that people cannot be drowned and even if there was no information and therefore no information could be passed on to the Italian authorities, then my answer is that if 172 lives were saved, we would have done a good job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u82	Minister, I understand that you are facing a dilemma. On the one hand, you want to tackle human trafficking. On the other hand, no matter how we spin it or turn it, you facilitate the smuggling of people. On the one hand, those arrested may not be satisfied. The others, who see that the refugees have indeed arrived at the place for which they have finally paid the smugglers and who in turn will probably pass on the message to other potential refugees, which in turn benefits people smuggling, will only be pleased. It's a difficult situation, a dilemma. I wonder whether we should participate in such a mission as long as there are no agreements with Libya, as long as we are not allowed to enter Libyan waters, because if we could patrol Libyan waters, we would be able to put those people back on the Libyan coast or in the Libyan ports. Is it justified for us to participate in such missions? After all, in practice today, no matter how we turn it or turn it and despite all good intentions, we are operating as a ferry company and as a cheap water taxi. That is not your intention, and certainly not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u83	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016, I propose to you on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal (Mrs Olivier Maingain, Georges Gilkinet, Eric Massin, Francis Delpérée, Dirk Van der Maelen, Marco Van Hees and Stefaan Van Hecke) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the initiation and circumstances of the adoption of the Law of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions, until the amicable settlement in criminal matters carried out on 17 June 2011 and its ratification by the Court of Appeal in Brussels and until the adoption of the law of 11 July 2011 amending Articles 216a and 216b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as determining political responsibilities, No. 2179/1, to be registered. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal (MM. Olivier Maingain, Georges Gilkinet, Eric Massin, Francis Delperée, Dirk Van der Maelen, Marco Van Hees and Stefaan Van Hecke) to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the incentives and circumstances leading to the adoption of the law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, to the criminal transaction on 17 June 2011 and its validation by the Brussels Court of Appeal, to the adoption of the restorative law of 11 July 2011 amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, and to determine political responsibilities, No. 2179/1. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents asked for the names of the effective and alternate members to be communicated, at the latest immediately after the vote on the setting up of the committee. I would remind you that in the Conference of Presidents, the names of the actual and alternate members were requested not later than immediately after the vote on the establishment of the committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Thoron. She refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u85	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise briefly to justify my group's vote. Minister, you introduced this bill as a simple technical adaptation to reflect the government's time-credit changes. However, it should be recalled that the changes brought about by this order reduce the possibilities for the worker to lift his foot and develop his career. I am thinking in particular of the abolition, in some cases, of the ONEM allowance and the assimilation of pensions. We consider this project, which endorses this change by decree to be unfair, because it penalizes workers in terms of the adjustments to their end of career, which is of paramount importance to us. These arrangements allow workers to continue their careers in good conditions by raising their feet. And here I am not talking about other measures that you could take by royal decree and that could have other consequences for the attractiveness of time credit. In this context, we will therefore vote against the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u87	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2142/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2142/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u89	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen, Conseil Degroote, Franky Demon. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u91	Mr President, this proposal was discussed in committee in two minutes. It concerns the exemption from guarantee for accounting officers in assisted areas, the same as has already been done for police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u92	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1924/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1924/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u95	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Inez De Coninck, Peter Dedecker, Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u96	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1984/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1984/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Lijnen, referred to her written report. Mrs De Coninck has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u97	Mr President, we have just discussed the punctuality of trains during Question Time. The decline in punctuality rates in the last month was officially confirmed. I'm following the file for my party. In recent weeks my mailbox has indeed been overwhelmed with mails from travellers who are dissatisfied with the punctuality. Punctuality is one of the most important things to make people switch to public transport. There must be a reliable alternative to the car, hence the importance of punctuality. Our party has thought about how we can improve punctuality in our country, as standards have already been included in the management contract with SNCB. It must meet certain objectives. However, we have also seen that when the new transport plan was drawn up, reference has just been made to it, including a number of minutes of delay in the transport plan. The commercial travel speed is another important thing to convince passengers to leave the car at home and choose the train. We have therefore said that we want to ask the government to advocate European standards of punctuality, so that every railway operator in each Member State calculates the punctuality in the same way. It is, of course, intended to include the best practices we already have, for example a weighted punctuality, a variable punctuality, not only from start- and end-points, but also in between, just to reduce the minutes that are now included in the transport plan a little bit. Our resolution finally contains three requests to the government, quite simply, to advocate European standards of punctuality at the right levels, to take the lead and also to open up the data on punctuality. That last element was added as an amendment, which is a good thing. I will conclude my speech here. I would like to thank my fellow Members in committee, because the resolution was adopted with very broad support and I hope that this will be the case in plenary. I also hope that the introduction of uniform punctuality rules will benefit the traveller and that our railway operators will be encouraged to be the best student in the class, in the interests of the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have gone up to the rostrum even though I will be very brief. Mrs De Coninck has tabled an interesting text. I wanted to mark my interest. It is also a text which aims to standardize, at European level, what is known as the measurement of punctuality in the field of railways. We cannot dream of a better time to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, since we are in December. Our excellent colleagues Mr Flahaux and Mr. Van den Bergh spoke here earlier about the enormous punctuality problems of our trains. The subject is obviously important if modal shift is to be promoted, i.e. the most important possible use of the train. I will just make a comment, Mrs De Coninck, because you are the main author of this text. It is clear that we must integrate the fact that one day, we hope, Europe will define a clear, precise, objective standard of punctuality, but integrating the elements that will promote the interest of travellers. I can explain: the standard must take into account punctuality throughout the journey, because very often trains which are late at the start will have caught up with this delay at the end of the journey. However, this is a problem for commuters on all points of the line. Second, this punctuality must take account of the number of passengers on trains. Because having an excellent punctuality during off-peak hours and ensuring that at the time when there are the most travellers, that is during rush hours, punctuality problems are lacking... You can see how you can "play" with – you even dared to "manipulate" – the numbers. That is obviously not what we want. Finally, how many minutes is a train considered to be late? We are six minutes away in Belgium, other countries have a standard that is sometimes more demanding, five or four minutes. That is what the text calls for: the government, which will one day hear us – even if the health break requested by the minister really takes a long time – will have to, on the basis of this resolution, ask the European bodies to open this debate. And at this point, I hope that Belgium will defend the punctuality that I mentioned: the number of passengers, the whole line, the number of minutes considered. It is in the interest of the traveller that we support you in this request for a European standard, although this proposal comes from the majority. You see how constructive we are, how much we measure the difficulty of the majority! I would also like to share the emotion that I feel when I see our colleagues in the majority facing the obligation to support a government that is in difficulty with the punctuality of trains. I am happy to support them in this request for a European standard. And I hope that one day this European standard will also apply in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u99	Mr President, yesterday we spent the afternoon together with Mrs De Coninck, Mr Cheron and a few others. Mrs De Coninck, we have joined on several points. You have not had words hard enough to condemn Minister Bellot's inaction on mobility. And here too, we can join the N-VA on the statement that is drawn. We can only go in one direction, that of a calculation of the punctuality clear, simple, and taking into account the real situation of the users. The possibility of easily comparing respect for punctuality from one country to another is also of interest to both the operator and the public authorities and users. As I told you in committee, we agree, but then we have to define the same rule for all. The central question remains, therefore, what criteria would be involved in the calculation, but they are not defined. That is the very basis of the proposal. However, it does not propose it and remains deliberately vague in order to obtain general agreement. But we need to be clear about the criteria that will determine punctuality. First of all, we believe it is necessary to have a comparison of the different methods of calculating punctuality in Europe. We also believe that it is necessary to have the opinion of the various associations for the defence of users and of various experts in this field. Finally, we want to have the position of the minister. For us, it is not conceivable to give the government a blank-sing in this area, especially given the content of the former Minister Galant's strategic plan, which remains today the road map for Minister Bellot and the government. I demonstrated yesterday that behind Mr. Bellot, there is still Mrs. Galant. Without this preparatory work, we cannot support this text, which calls on the government to continue on the road to an evolution in the calculation of punctuality, without putting in place the necessary parameters. We will abstain and invite you to continue the work. For punctuality, we are all witnesses, in some areas more than others. We mentioned the country's two worst lines: Mons-Soignies-Brussels and Binche-La Louvière-Turnhout. Many efforts must be made with regard to punctuality, when it is not simply a question of the cancellation of trains!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u101	V Earrings submitted by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Patrick Dewael, Katja Gabriels, Denis Ducarme, Sophie De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Hans Bonte and Mr Stéphane Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u103	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u104	Thank you. I call Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish today, in plenary, to repeat the debate that took place in the Committee on Terrorism, an intense and lively debate. But it is indeed an important text that deserves some attention. The first thing to remember – as my group has already said – is that it is essential to have effective tools in the fight against terrorism. We are committed to contributing to this goal by supporting any proposals that are targeted, proportionate and effective. These are the three conditions. We have already done so on several occasions. But the objective of the text on the table today does not, in our view, meet these criteria. First, with regard to the proportionality and targeting of the notion of "or having to have knowledge" which is specified in the text, it is clear that the majority and we ourselves do not share – as was said in committee – the opinion of the Council of State. We do not have the same reading of this opinion. For our part, we believe that there should be a clear critique of this text which does not respect the principle of legality. In support of my remarks, I will quote an excerpt from this opinion of the Council of State, which states: "To literally interpret the new version of the above-mentioned provision implies that a person who merely participates in an activity of a terrorist group which is unrelated to terrorist activities of that group would also be punishable". This element, combined with the "need to know" that the group is a terrorist group, is also incorporated as an element of criminalization, and this may have the effect of considerably widening the scope of criminalization. A very broad formulation, an activity of a terrorist group can indeed be linked to a type of potential knowledge that is difficult to determine with certainty, not the effects of its own action but the nature of the activities of others who are not always univocal. It is therefore problematic to make these activities not always clear to other people a standard of prudence for any third person. Thus, there is a risk of creating an overly extensive criminalization that could affect the element of guilt that is an essential element of the offence. Therefore, in view of the very different nature and degree of dangerousness of the acts which are likely to be covered by the definition of the offence, the question may also arise as to whether the proposed modification of the current wording does not run counter to the principle of proportionality of penalties. While some amendments have, of course, improved the text – it must be acknowledged – in the sense of the opinion of the Council of State, and while the author of the proposal has clarified others, in the light of the amendment to Article 141, these amendments do not, in our view, suffice to mark the text as desired by the Council of State. This is a crucial dimension of legal certainty: for an act to be punishable, the perpetrator must be able to know, at the time of his action, that the act constitutes an offence. Here, in our view, the margin of appreciation which is left to the judge in the very qualification of the fact is too broad to guarantee the security of all and to guarantee legal certainty. Let me take up the examples that my colleague, Nawal Ben Hamou, has brilliantly mentioned in committee. Google Earth is a tracking tool for attackers. Should we condemn Google's collaborators? Handcrafted explosives are prepared with everyday consumer products (oxygenated water, detergents). Should we, then, pursue the drug addicts, the hairdressers, the grocers? Is giving a euro on the occasion of a collection for a group close to the Salafists a preparatory act? Should the intention exist at the time of the contested purchase or can it be established ex post facto? All this is obviously absurd, and I agree with it. But this shows the uncertain nature of this proposal. Finally, my group is even more concerned about the way in which this proposal interferes with the statements made by the Federal Prosecutor, the State Security and others, in the anti-terrorism commission of inquiry. Senior officials are concerned about the over-judicialization of cases, i.e., an increasingly rapid and massive judicialization of cases. Based on their experience in the field, such a logic greatly complicates their work, whether it is the obligation to prosecute any act that might help or lead to the commission of an offence or simply prevent our intelligence services from functioning and carrying out their mission. This multiplication of judicial facts in any case severely limits their ability to carry out the necessary investigations, the dismantling of channels and networks. It is therefore a measure that, rather than strengthening our capacity to act against terrorism, may expose us to future difficulties. In this regard, we must reaffirm what our security services need as a matter of priority in order to respond to the threats to our society. This is not a broader legislative framework. The legislative framework in this area is already very comprehensive, as attested by articles 137 to 141 of the Criminal Code. What we need are financial, technological and human resources. For these reasons, we believe that this text is premature and that it would have deserved further analysis, which we would have obtained, in particular by holding hearings. We should now, at a minimum, wait for the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to judge on the ground how this text would be part of a response to the recommendations from the field. For this reason, my group will oppose this text, as it has already done in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that anyone in this House doubts that the evolution of the terrorist threat requires increased control on the ground and that, where necessary, there will be a supplement to the substantive criminal law to allow all terrorist acts to be investigated and properly punished. A careful examination of this substantive criminal law has forced us to complete criminal law, to clarify certain wordings and to make certain conduct even more criminal. I am talking, among other things, about criminalising the financing of all terrorist offences, which unfortunately is not the case today. Colleagues, and I am addressing Mr Crusnière in particular, whom I would like to express my gratitude for the constructive and careful debate we have had in committee on the substance of the matter. The final decision following this very extensive discussion and after repeated advice from the Council of State is that we need an additional notion in our Criminal Code, in particular the notion of preparatory actions. We must register this notion effectively and explicitly in our Criminal Code, so that the preparation of a terrorist offence can also be made criminal. It is not only important to provide for criminalisation; it is also extremely important that, once we register this notion in the Criminal Code, we allow investigators on the ground to intervene very quickly and to avoid much worse. It is important in the preparation of a terrorist crime that researchers can use the most efficient methods, including special detection methods, in order to prevent worse and avoid victims and harm. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to note that we have not only introduced the notion of preparatory actions into the Criminal Code, but that we have also introduced a number of refinements to our penal law, which are important in order to tackle the whole chain of criminal acts and terrorist offences. Today, it is already effectively punishable to participate in an activity of a terrorist group, knowing that it contributes to the commission of the crime. The supply of material resources for the purpose of committing a terrorist act is also punishable, but, as has already been said, these provisions are too limited. What we want to do now is criminalise it if someone knew or had to know that their participation could contribute to committing a terrorist offence. In reply to the comment made by Mr Crusnière, I would like to stress that the way in which the qualification has been formulated is that it is clear and pre-understandable for everyone, that everyone can clearly know that when he makes an act, this act will also be punishable by law, and thus in accordance with the principle of legality. This bill does indeed provide the court with additional levers and more scope to seize terrorists, and that is especially important before they can strike. I am convinced that the detectives will now literally gain more weapons to intervene at that very early stage. At that stage one can effectively prevent worse and one will be able to intervene when there is the so-called lone wolves who would plan an attack alone or with two. Last but not least, the bill extends the criminalisation of terrorist financing. From now on, the financing of any terrorist offence will be punishable. Moreover, it is not only about facilitating a terrorist offence but also about the terrorist in itself. As far as the technical aspects of this bill are concerned, I will not go into that further today. That has been clearly and comprehensively done in committee. It goes without saying that the intention to commit one or more terrorist offences is and remains essential for the punishment, including the preparatory actions. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. During the discussion in committee, a clear distinction was made between the preparation and the attempt, in particular the stage in which the process is being conducted, preparation or implementation. Finally, it was made very clear during the discussion that there is indeed proportionality in the way in which we have provided for the punishment of preparatory actions. The concerns of a number of fellow Members for this matter, I refer to the discussion we have had in the committees on counter-terrorism and terrorist attacks on premature judicialisation, has nothing to do with the additional criminalisation of certain reprehensible acts which society cannot tolerate, in particular criminalising preparatory acts. Rather, it has to do with the interplay between the collection of information on the one hand and the filing of a file at the public prosecutor's office on the other, in other words the initiation of a judicial investigation. This will need to be taken into account in the future and consultations will need to be held by all actors. That is clear to everyone. That does not stand in the way of further completing our criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this proposal has been considered and that there can only be one decision, in particular that we need these additional instruments. By "we" I mean, of course, those who are in daily contact with our security in the field, who must fight against terrorism in the field. They effectively implement the measures in practice. The instruments we approve must strengthen them in their often dangerous job. I wish them good luck. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope, with your support, that this instrument can be a useful tool in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u107	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us this afternoon is important in many ways. First, it extends the offence of participation to a terrorist group to cases of potential knowledge of the terrorist offence. Secondly, it inserts an article 140sepies into the Criminal Code in order to punish terrorist preparatory acts. Finally, it extends the offence of financing terrorism to the offences referred to in articles 140bis (incitement to terrorism) to 140sepies of the Criminal Code – which therefore also includes the financing of departures and returns. It also takes into account several FATF recommendations and the adaptation of the European Directive on combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism, which is being finalized – I will come back to that. By extending the offence of participation to a terrorist group, our bill will now punish those who should have known that their participation would contribute to the commission of an act or offence by a terrorist group. Some colleagues have mentioned in committee the risk that this potential knowledge will not be determinable with certainty. However, we have already had the opportunity to point out that a certain degree of participation would be necessary and that the trial judge should therefore examine the circumstances and the determining criteria on a case-by-case basis. In particular, the State party should verify whether they constitute sufficient prima facie evidence to determine whether an accused person has participated in the activities of a terrorist group. It will be recalled here, ladies and gentlemen, that case law has already used these criteria for several years to establish that an accused has indeed contributed to the activities of a terrorist group. But the most emblematic measure of the bill is probably the creation of an article 140sepies in the Penal Code in order to sanction the preparatory acts. What do we mean by that? In 2001, following the attacks of 11 September, the United Nations Security Council, through its Resolution 1373, drew the attention of the Member States to the importance of acting ahead of the terrorist offence, thus even before the stage of the attempt, by tackling the first fruits of the act itself, which make it possible to commit it. The draft law lists in a non-exhaustive way – I will also come back to this – a series of examples: the identification, search or acquisition of premises that can serve as retreats, lodgings, meeting places; or the detention, transport or manufacture of false papers, objects or explosive substances. These provisions, called for by the United Nations since 2001, already exist in several European countries. I am thinking of Germany, France and the United Kingdom. The European directive on the fight against terrorism, which I referred to earlier and which is being updated, also aims to establish the infringement. As you can see, it was high time to make up for the delay in adopting the provision. Furthermore, as I said at the outset, the bill extends the offence of financing terrorism to the offences referred to in articles 140bis to 140sepies of the Criminal Code. Here too, we wish to be proactive in anticipating the updating of the European Directive on combating the financing of terrorism and in responding to the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). That is why the extension of the offences will apply regardless of whether or not the means are actually used to commit the terrorist offence and whether the person in question knows to which specific offence his or her financing is intended. Finally, the third axis of the proposal is the sanction of the financing of a terrorist, therefore the person who is going to commit a terrorist attack, regardless of any link between the financing and the terrorist offence. With this last point, we also wanted to meet the requirements of the FATF. Colleagues, two types of criticism have been made in committee by some members of the opposition about the proposal. One type of criticism related to the opinion of the Council of State, the other was rather an argument of opportunity. We were able to first hear and read this and there that the Council of State would have rejected the text. That's not the case. At the most, the Council of State has made a series of technical comments, to which we have given clear and precise answers in committee. On the extension of the offence of participation to a terrorist group, the Council of State recognizes that this extension is "allowable provided that the criterion for establishing that the accused should have known that he was involved in the activities of a terrorist group is deduced from concrete elements such as the personal situation of the person concerned." We were able to confirm in committee what the explanatory memorandum already referred to. Similarly, the Council of State has at no time called into question the criminalization of the preparatory acts. At most, he expressed reservations about the non-exhaustive nature of the list covered by the proposal. You are aware that terrorism is constantly evolving, that the Islamic State regularly shows morbid creativity and adapts to the tools we are setting up to hit it. In November 2015, the modus operandi was not the one we found in March 2016. In March 2016, modus operandi was not the one used in Nice. And in Nice, this is not the modus operandi that was used against a priest in France. In this case, we refuse to allow ourselves to be enclosed by a framework that is too rigid. On the contrary, we would like to be able to cover any type of behaviour that falls within the definition of a preparatory act. To draw up an exhaustive list would expose the services to the risk of not being able to incriminate an act that would be preparatory in practice but not in law. For too long, we have been trapped by enemies who exploited the flaws of our legal system. If we refuse to sacrifice our freedoms, we also refuse to sin by naivety. On the contrary, we must anticipate the terrorist threat in order to protect our security, which is a fundamental right. Finally, penalties are also distributed in several degrees in the proposal: less than the applicable penalties, on the one hand, than the attempt to commit a terrorist offence, on the other hand, than complicity. Here too, the Council of State has considered that the determination of the seriousness of an offence and the severity of its sanction is a matter for the discretion of the legislator, while acknowledging in its wisdom that the difference in the degree of the penalty is not manifestly unreasonable. Finally, the Council of State recognizes that the preparatory act cannot be punished as severely as the attempt or complicity. As a reminder, the difference between the terrorist preparatory act and the attempt lies in the fact that, in the first case, the act has not yet taken place or known to begin execution. As we can see, our approach is also quite consistent. The second salve of remarks raised by some groups in committee was rather about timeliness. Some public hearings of the parliamentary committee of inquiry set up in order to draw lessons from the attacks of 22 March highlighted the problem generated by the hyper-judicialisation of certain terrorist cases. In some specific cases, the intelligence services believe that the federal prosecutor's office is taking over too quickly. It is sufficient for them to be confronted with an infringement as part of their work of gathering information. However, it appears that intelligence services may wish to keep their hands longer and judicialization reduces their room for manoeuvre. In some specific cases, it may be appropriate for intelligence services to infiltrate a terrorist cell more deeply or collect additional information in order to identify other terrorists, possibly return them or anticipate other information. We are, of course, aware of this remark, of this issue. And the commission of inquiry will have to consider the desirability of better overseeing the judicialization of terrorist cases, initially managed by intelligence services, when the time comes to draft the recommendations of the security component. And we could, without going too far, on this occasion draw inspiration from the British model. However, in certain situations it is more appropriate to act immediately before the terrorist offence, to sanction the preparatory acts. That therefore remains entirely relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we would have hoped that, like other reforms initiated by this majority, the opposition could join us and support the text. Unfortunately, nothing has been done about it, since the Socialist Party and Ecolo-Groen opposed it. We need, ladies and gentlemen, more than ever before, union, pragmatism and unity behind projects, the only objective of which is to strengthen our services and the tools that we place at their disposal in their daily and difficult fight against terrorism, fought with strict respect for the necessary balance between security, on the one hand, freedom and, on the other hand, proportionality, on the one hand, and efficiency, on the other. Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone will join the proposal at the time of the vote! As far as we are concerned, we will of course support the creation of a new tool, important in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group had its own proposal, but we are pleased that this proposal, which we have finally tabled together, can still be approved. In the fight against terrorism, it is very important that the legislative arsenal be further supplemented. There really was a gap in that respect. We all know that criminal organisations and groups that made preparatory actions were, in themselves, punishable and could be dealt with, but that was not so for the so-called lone wolves, as we have known a number of them in the past summer. Think of the truck driver in Nice, for example. This legislation can also deal with and punish someone who has plans. Think of someone who buys a liter of liquid in a pharmacy or a box of nails at Hubo. This will enable us to move forward, and this will allow us to close the grid more and more. That is the way it should be, ladies and gentlemen. We must use any additional instrument to prevent attacks. This is one of those, because it will be possible to intervene before an attack is carried out. That's the point. Prevention is always better than cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr De Wit's last words. Undoubtedly, we all agree that prevention is much better than cure. In the fight against terrorism we must also work towards a strong, efficient legislative arsenal, which seems to me to be a platitude. But I repeat why I myself am not convinced that the present draft law is currently a powerful addition to the legislative arsenal. First of all, and as I said in committee, the objective of the legislative proposal, which is now a draft law, we all share, in particular that preparatory acts on terrorism should also be criminalised. It becomes more difficult, of course, when the debate is about intentions. We need to evaluate whether or not someone is deliberately selling plane tickets to someone who is going to Syria. What is the intention of the trader selling such tickets to young people leaving for Syria? That is a difficult issue. There are judicial investigations against sales offices in this context. So it seems that there is already a legislative arsenal that allows us to act, but it remains difficult and delicate. In the committee the example of Google Earth was also given and I can quote many other examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u110	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u111	Allow me to finish this argument, Mrs Van Cauter, before intervening. I agree with the colleagues from the PS, that we must be careful not to get into an atmosphere of arbitrariness and therefore legal uncertainty. After all, well-intentioned legislation, and you know it better than I do, Mrs Van Cauter, can also have very perverse effects. That is why I am prepared to vote in favour of my group. However, I fully share your view, Mrs Van Cauter, that the fight against terrorism should mainly be carried out in practice. And not only are we convinced of this, given the statements made by those who work daily, at local police level, to the highest magistrates and the security services. The legislative framework must always be drawn up, but there is a great deal to be done in practice, in the day-to-day approach to terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just given you a few examples that may also ring a bell. A few days ago, I read in the newspaper that people returning from Syria can actually get stamp money. I thought, however, that we had reached a consensus on the fact that people who have been signed off because they have left for the war zone in Syria are no longer receiving benefits. A few days ago, however, I read that this has not yet been settled. I think a certain minister has forgotten something. Mrs Van Cauter, you are right to talk about financing terrorism. I was one of the first mayors, followed very quickly by my colleague from Antwerp, who automatically placed deletions in the front of the agenda, every time we knew that someone had been reported as leaving, with all the comments that had been made. I only did so to prevent the effective financing of terrorist organisations in Syria from continuing. Well, I note that this matter has not yet been settled. Colleagues, on the dynamic database, I invite every mayor to use his powers to thoroughly inform himself about that dynamic database. What their chief of police will indicate is that they are working on a new dynamic database because the first one is not working. Colleagues, police officers in the field are no further away from transparency and efficiency in the collection of information. In the meantime, the LIVC cells, the Local Integral Safety Cells, are a fashion word. In this context, too, the question should be asked as to who is monitoring whether these cells are meeting, how they work, at what frequency and with what agenda. I do not want to say much about it, because I take the principle that everyone has to wipe out his own door. However, I see a lot of vulnerable places where there is hardly any movement. It'll be left that way. There will be no action against it. It is about dealing with and monitoring people who have been radicalised and who have returned or not, and who are still watching, but who are not being dealt with. Colleagues, I hear a lot of talk outside Parliament about the single police zone and a more efficient police organisation. Once in Parliament, however, I notice all kinds of delaying manoeuvres. Mr Metsu, chairman of our committee, I would ask you once again to convene your committee next week. I remind you of our agreement to meet every Friday. Well, it seems that next week there will be no committee meeting on the agenda. However, as at any committee meeting, I would once again urge this plenary to tackle the most pressing security problem in this country, in particular the search for a better police organisation in the capital. Mr President of the Commission, I would like to ask you again. What is preventing you from organising next Friday's legislative proposal which is being discussed, which has been explained and for which hearings are planned? I would like an answer to that. All of us, across the borders of opposition and majority, have a duty to intervene as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible in the problems we see together in security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u112	Mr Bonte, if there is an interruption in security policy, or if we see gaps, the legislator is in a position to intervene and take the necessary initiatives. That goes without saying. I note that, following the extensive debate in committee, a large majority of Parliament agrees that preparatory acts should also be punishable. You say, however, that you will not approve it. Because, you say, participation in an activity of a terrorist group is already punishable. That's right. When preparing for someone else, one can be punishable. But when someone prepares for himself, when someone plans an attack and makes all the actions to commit that attack, to go out with the bomb belt and create a danger of a terrorist attack, you say: no, you have to wait until the person concerned is effectively on his way to the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u113	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u114	If you say no, you'll have to vote for it later. And if you're in doubt, you should read it again. I say to you: preparing a terrorist attack that one can commit is not a criminal offence today. If we do not eliminate this gap in substantive criminal law, this means that people on the ground must wait until someone with his bomb belt comes out before they can intervene, at risk to themselves and to society. Mr Bonte, read the text carefully. Make up your mind and vote for it later. You have made a number of other comments. You say, among other things, that the government and Parliament talk a lot about the dynamic data base and the exchange of data but that nothing is going to happen. The relevant law was adopted in May 2016. Between voting and providing a framework and the moment when something works operationally perfectly, it takes some time. Today, however, these databases are linked. Today, the information can be collected. But that still requires a number of operations, which would be better turned off, so that the system would work much better. Of course that will happen, but you need to be patient and show respect for the people who have to work out the law. The exchange of information between police, prosecutors and prosecutors was not arranged and did not happen. She's scheduled for today and she's happening today. Today there is contact between the judicial assistants or should at least be there in theory. I have heard from certain contacts that have been there that things are actually happening on the ground today. That happens today and not in two years' time. In the meantime, however, there are instructions and letters which are used in practice. One is not as proactive as the other, but today the instrument exists and happens. Sharing professional secrecy, giving your local task forces more strength and power, giving them the right to share information, without being hindered by their professional secrecy, are items that will be on the agenda of the Justice Commission tomorrow afternoon. You are invited to participate in the conversations. I wonder if I will be able to meet you there to see that this problem has been effectively addressed and that it is not an easy exercise, but that we will make it available to those who are safe on the ground. Mr Bonte, I know that implementation must take place in practice and on the ground. However, we cannot do this without instruments. No telephone can be bugged if the preparatory act is not yet punishable. It is only by criminalising them that they are given the opportunity to conduct viewing operations, to listen to the phone and to prevent the bomb from being made and detonated in a way that and at a time when we absolutely do not want it to be. That is what we want to prevent. That is why we have carefully made the exercise and found that there are gaps that we will now close.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u115	Mrs Van Cauter, I would like to put on my list and it was absolutely unfinished, just to say that the fight against terrorism and radicalism will mainly be won or lost in the field of activity. I would like to point out that we have already seen a great deal of legislation passed, but that the call for attention and assistance on the ground, to deal with a number of things that go wrong, is not being heard. You're telling me to be patient. I have a lot of patience. About two and a half years ago, there was a overwhelming consensus here that people who left for the war zone in Syria should stop giving stamp money. I'm patient! However, I see that they are returning and that they have money. Yesterday I received the visit of people who came directly to the town hall of Vilvoorde after visiting their son in the prison of Saint Gillis, who was convicted of terrorism. They came to explain when their son was released. They told me what he's doing there and not doing. They then come to the mayor and the police chief of Vilvoorde explain when he is released. Do you really think this is the normal way to work? A year ago, it was agreed with the Minister of Justice that there would be proper communication from prisons and justice to the police forces. However, the mommies and daddies have to go to the mayor to make sure that he is released after being released, not tossed down like a fugitive. You're telling me to be patient. I'm patient, but that's what ends sometimes. The only thing I want to say, Mrs Van Cauter, is that there is so much going wrong in this policy area, while people are now working on symbol laws that I cannot judge today whether or not they contribute to greater security. That is why sp.a will abstain. This has to do with a number of things. At the time when we are discussing the matter in committee, I hear Mr Raes, the great head of State Security, say in the media that he warned in the Committee of Inquiry about police forces that sometimes act too quickly in investigations into terrorist organisations. That's one of the risk derivatives attached to this law. Police forces may be too quick to judge by this law that someone is doing an intense job. That is the sigh I hear from the security services, formally in the Committee of Inquiry, but also informally. I address myself to the President of the Chamber and to the chairman of the committee. Unfortunately, I am not in a position today to make a correct assessment of who is right: those who advocate absolute caution, including with new legislation, or those who stress that it is a powerful legislative instrument. Why can't I? I cannot do that because we have not had the opportunity to ask ourselves in hearings whether the Justice Commission, which has much more experience and strength in dealing with such technical legislative texts than the accidental Counter-Terrorism Committee, has been involved. Last week, here in the Chamber, we also had a debate on the draft law on passenger lists. We have all found that Europe has very serious objections. Last week, I proudly went to the committee meeting and suggested that we look into this criticism and hear the Members of the European Commission about their views on the draft law and how the text should possibly be updated. But what did the majority say, Mr Pivin? She doesn't want that debate. This illustrates how the problem is dealt with here. There is no search for the strongest possible weapon against terrorism. However, there is a boxing match, a course in which every majority group tries to score with her dada. We are only working on how to bring our legislative proposal to a successful conclusion in order to give public opinion that he or she is really working on safety. In the meantime, people work day and night, with too few men, who are often moved from one day to another. The essential tasks, such as the merger into an efficient police zone in the capital, are shifting the majority away because it does not dare to discuss them internally. That is the reality. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u116	Mr Bonte, you are warning us of the danger of too rapid judicialisation, as Mr Raes put it in committee. Perhaps you would have done better to listen to him and ask him or at least read the report and not only read Mr Raes's opinion, but also those of all the others who have spoken about the problem. Not only Mr Raes, but also the federal prosecutor has expressed his opinion on this. If they have expressed their concern about overly quick judicialisation, then it is not about overly criminalising or criminalising certain acts. All they are concerned about is that if information is collected, that information would not lead to the initiation of a judicial investigation too quickly and whether the registration of a file with the federal prosecutor. They call for the investigation to be carried out before action is taken that alarms actors, potential perpetrators and makes them flee. In particular, let the research be carried out so that we can track down the network and prevent it much worse, says Mr Raes' plea and a number of actors in the field. Those who fight terrorism are not concerned that we would have criminalised too many acts or would have described too many crimes as terrorist offences. On the contrary, all these actors have said very explicitly that there has been a gap in substantive criminal law so far, particularly in the area of criminalising preparatory acts. Now my question is to you, and this is the question of what the vote is about, whether you are for or against the rapid intervention and prevention of a terrorist offence. Are you in favour or against? That is the only question to be put to the vote. If you vote against, you say that you do not agree with the fact that an ambassador intercepts someone who makes preparatory actions, but has not yet begun to carry out a terrorist offence. If you vote in favour, you want to be able to allow magistrates to conduct investigations in such a way that one can intervene at a very rapid stage, from the moment of preparation, and prevent an attack from taking place. That's the choice you're facing. You cannot question that explanation, Mr Bonte, in an intellectually correct manner. What I am saying here is in line with what is in the proposal. This has been fully confirmed in the opinions of the Council of State. This has been explicitly confirmed by the experts, who, I assume, are staff of the Minister of Justice and who have spoken on his behalf. That has been confirmed by the case-law, if you'll look into it. The question I will ask you later is: are you in favour or against preventing a terrorist attack? Are you in favour of or against intervention at the time the bomb is made? That's the question, that's very simple. That's the challenge for you. Whether the proposal comes from the majority, Mr Bonte, or from the opposition, that does not matter. What we want to do is to complete substantive criminal law so that we can get started on the ground. That's what we want to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u117	Mrs Van Cauter, I think it is absolutely an imbecile question whether we are for or against terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u118	That is the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u119	Should we really end up at that level in the debate in Parliament? Is there anyone who believes that there is now someone from any group here who wants to prepare for terrorist attacks or does not want to criminalise them? I will repeat what I have said, Mrs Van Cauter, and try to listen. I said that we absolutely agree with the objective. However, I am not in a position to judge whether the legislative proposal we are voting on is effective in achieving that objective. You refer to justice and everything and everything. I have already expressed my opinion on Mr Raes's appeal. I've also consulted people working in the field. I'm sorry to see them too often. They too have doubts. As a Member of Parliament, I am not in a position to judge this correctly, because there is a systematic refusal to invite people who can effectively speak with authority and experience. After all, we are on a committee with only a few lawyers. However, I asked that the Committee on Justice should give an opinion on the proposal before us, but that was not possible. I think it would be normal for the Committee on Justice to give an opinion on this because, as a non-lawyer, I cannot judge on the various and contradictory opinions that I receive on the matter. What we do share, Mrs Van Cauter, is the concern about what is happening in practice. If you are asking a little demagogic whether we do not want the people in the field to do their work, then I answer that we should give the people in the field who are working their asses today, in difficult circumstances and who have been crying out for extra support and resources for months, the opportunity to do their job. Let me give you one more example of this week. This week, in consultation with my zone in the zonal security consultation, I had to establish that a particular organization is in the sight of investigators. I am perhaps saying too much here in public, and that the zone is a requesting party to work within the framework of the famous Belfi channel plan to carry out an investigation. It has been six months since we asked that question. This week we have been told again that Belfi does not have enough time and men, that it has its hands full with Molenbeek and that it will not investigate the organization that is supposed to be particularly linked. That's what happens in the field. The majority must also have the courage to look critically at this and look for solutions together, but you are turning away from that. Once again, I am addressing the chairman of the committee. We did indeed have the ambition to work beyond the limits of majority and opposition. I hear Mr Cd&V's colleagues in the long and broad press conferences about how necessary it is for us to go to one police area in Brussels. I hear some say that. I hear the N-VA say that. I hear people from the field asking how in the name of God it is possible that a year later we still do not have an online connection between the Molenbeek police camera network and STIB, namely in underground stations. Still don't. The minister in charge is over there. One year. I'm patient, but one year is a little long. I'll keep my mouth shut about the whole film in 48 hours. So do not blame us for not taking up our responsibilities. You are watching the biggest misery that our police and security services have already experienced, and you are not responding to what they need to do, in particular to ensure a more efficient security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u120	Mr President, I am asking for the floor with the necessary caution because I have not been on the Committee on Terrorism in recent weeks. I'll get another seat from tomorrow. I am also concerned about the fact that I know how much authority Mr Bonte can speak in this matter. In recent months and years he has always managed to bring his authority together in an intellectually correct manner and to make his point. With all due respect, Mr Bonte, you raised Mrs Van Cauter's question as to whether or not we are in favour of combating terrorism. That is as ridiculous as your remark that we would not seek, together with all the members of the majority, to provide as much resources as possible on the ground. As mayor, I have the same problem. You know that, too. Of course Vilvoorde is much worse. Nor have I ever made it a problem that people were sent from my police zone to secure the canal zone or the surroundings of Vilvoorde. So let us remain united. I would like to talk about the legislative proposal itself, which our group will, of course, support. I shall not go back to the discussions that have taken place in committee. We are now in plenary. Mr Bonte, this is something I must say. If the problem is that an opinion should have been requested from the Committee on Justice, then I have two things to say. You know that the Counter-Terrorism Committee is largely composed of the same people. Send it back to the Justice Commission, please. I hope, however, that the Socialist Party will be there for the first time and will give its opinion on a legislative proposal that is being discussed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u121	Mr. President, I'm kind of upset. I was going to start my speech by saying that if I go back to the twelve months of work – the duration of the Terrorism Committee until today – I find that the debate on this text has been done in form, even though I regret that there has been no hearing. We've really been at the bottom of the text, we've analyzed it. I asked for a second reading on behalf of my group. Mrs Van Cauter has also asked for it, and we have obtained it. I was going to say we could have gone to the end of the way. I wish we'd done it for all the texts. We also denounce when the work is done in the hussard, without asking for opinion and sometimes with amateurism. This is not the case. I wanted to start by saying that. However, on the other hand, when I hear Mrs Van Cauter being oversimplification, I find that a pity. Mrs Van Cauter, you are bringing back the debates that we have had in committee to the mere fact that those who vote for them are in favour of punishing and prosecuting people who are preparing terrorist attacks, and that those who vote against them do not want us to do so! That is absolutely regrettable! That's why I'm bothered. I was going to begin my speech by saying that the exchanges had been rather constructive until your arms pass with Mr. Bonte. To go back to the substance of the text, we have had lengthy debates in committee and several points have asked us. I would like to return to the point that there are still major questions and fears with regard to this text. I will not go back to the fact that, with regard to legislative inflation and legal means, what is known as "judicialisation", the question of efficiency can be asked. I would like to highlight the point concerning the non-exhaustive list of cases and the preparation of terrorist acts. You list us four circumstances and you say that "preparation means, in particular, the following points". For us, the "in particular" creates trouble and makes us develop great fears about the proportionality, effectiveness and targeting that this measure might have in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u122	I am also basing myself on the opinion of the Council of State, which was given on this text. I would like to quote a paragraph explaining our position: "We may also ask ourselves whether it is permissible to include in the article (which is referred to) of the Penal Code a non-exhaustive list of acts which may constitute a preparatory act. The answer to this question is yes, provided that the definition of the criminal act specified in the list itself complies with the principle of legality in criminal matters and is therefore sufficiently precise, clear, predictable and does not ignore the principle that no punishment can be imposed without guilt. The foregoing does not prevent a limited list of acts which may be considered as preparatory acts where appropriate from providing more legal certainty and, if it is possible to establish such a list, this should be privileged." That is not your choice, Mrs Van Cauter, in this proposal. And it is really in relation to this strategic direction that you give to the text of your proposal, leaving a door open to all possible infringements and acts of preparation, that we have the greatest reservations and fears. We cannot therefore support this text as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u123	Mr President, I did not take part in the debates in committee, it was Georges Dallemagne who followed this dossier. You will allow me to state here the position of our group. Some, as I have heard in this debate, might consider that the proposal before us extends the scope of terrorist offences too much. But I believe that this proposal must above all lead us to ask two questions. The first is: do we want to be able to criminalize acts preparatory to terrorist offences? The answer is yes. And the second: do we wish to be able to take a criminal measure, including an arrest warrant, when such preparatory acts are found, for example, during a search? Our answer is also yes, in the context we live in. These are situations that could actually arise, to which we must be able to respond in terms of legislation. Indeed, it must be noted that there is now a gap in legislation with regard to these acts preparatory to terrorist offences. And this is all the more so since prosecutors seem to be seeking this possibility for the sake of efficiency and in order to prevent as many terrorist acts as possible. That being said, ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that we will support this text. However, I would like to repeat here what we have been saying for several months: the laws will of course never compensate for the human resources that are needed on the ground, whether in police, justice or intelligence matters. We recognize that these services are at the end of the roll because of their workload. On the question of means, but also on the question of global leadership in the field of terrorism, the shortcomings remain important. Despite this, we will support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u124	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1579/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1579/12) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u127	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Olivier Maingain, Georges Gilkinet, Eric Massin, Francis Delpérée, Dirk Van der Maelen, Marco Van Hees, Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u128	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u129	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice has therefore examined at its meeting on 23 November the text whose title has just been recalled to you. In the preamble to the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee on Justice, Mr Philippe Goffin, explained to us why he would not chair this meeting and why he would not be a candidate for a seat on that committee on the grounds that he had co-signed at the time an amendment to extend the criminal transaction. He told us that there was a need for calm debate and that, in that case, each member should be as impartial as possible, both for himself and for the population. He recalled in passing that a commission of inquiry exercising the powers of an investigating judge, the Court of Appeal stressed that the impartiality and independence of the investigating judge must be total, so that he could not be exposed to suspicion of bias - which was also confirmed by an approach of the European Court of Human Rights. Moreover, he called for "all those who, from near or far, had been actors or witnesses to the advent of the regulation on the expanded criminal transaction in 2011 to ensure that the duty of impartiality is scrupulously respected". He added: "There can be no doubt at any time. We must not betray the trust of the citizen." Our work then continued under the leadership of Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. The first author of the proposal, Mr Olivier Maingain, was given the floor, who reminded us that the circumstances, which I will not remind our assembly, since everyone is supposed to know them, justified the establishment of a committee of inquiry with, and I sum up, three objectives. First, the commission of inquiry must consider whether the process of drafting a law has been influenced in any way at the request of a neighbouring State. In this case, France was named. Secondly, the committee of inquiry must also look at how the judiciary has implemented this legislation. Thirdly, it is necessary to examine the arrangements which have surrounded the acquisition of Belgian nationality by at least one of the protagonists in this case, namely Mr Chodiev. In the general discussion, two main points were raised by means of two amendments tabled by the majority. The first concerned the composition of the commission. The second was related to the scope of the mission to be entrusted to him. As far as the composition of the committee is concerned, the original proposal was to set up a committee of fifteen members and to involve parties that are not recognized, namely those with fewer than five members in our assembly. It did not provide for an alternate. The parliamentary majority has tabled an amendment on this point to propose an increase from 15 to 17 members and to include alternates. Hence the reference to the presence of the "small parties", which led to remarks by various Commissioners. Thus, Mr Gilkinet hoped that it would have been possible to reach a consensus on the composition of our committee. Mr. Van Hees, for his part, considered that it was eminently democratic to allow the presence, with an advisory voice, of small political parties, referring to the Special Commission International Tax Fraud, the Panama Papers, which proves that a commission can function well, even if the small parties are associated with it. Mr. Van der Maelen also spoke on this point, considering that it was not acceptable for the Commission to be composed solely of the traditional parties because they could "try to keep the work going". The majority defended his proposal, notably by the vote of Mrs De Wit and Mr De Wit. De Roover, who recalled that the number of 17 members had, in any case, become a habit. Mr Maingain, as the author of the proposal, obviously did not agree with this approach, considering that the small parties were bringing a plus and that he himself was the first signatory to the proposal, he had his full place in this committee, reminding us of the precedents. Mrs Onkelinx was indignant, to use the terms I find in the report, in this way of considering things, while Mr Patrick Dewael considered, in addition to other elements, that allowing unrecognized political parties to be involved in the work of the committee would have the effect of having representatives of the Vlaams Belang present there, which was contrary to a usual, if not conventional, position or jurisprudence of our institution. I pleaded that Mr Maingain should be able to find his place in the committee, recalling that, of course, the law allows all parliamentarians to participate in the work of a committee of inquiry, but that it also provides for restrictions, since the House or the committee itself can reduce this presence. I suggested that a gesture be made with respect to the initiator of the proposal. Unfortunately, there was no agreement in the committee on this way of looking at things and thus reaching a consensus on the composition of the committee. The majority amendment was adopted by 11 votes in favour and 6 against. On the substance of the matter and therefore the task which must be that of the committee to be set up, as I have already told you, an amendment was tabled again by the majority, who, by the vote of Mrs De Wit, pointed out that it was thus resuming a consensus reached in a working group, which had met on the matter, which was reformulating perhaps by restricting words. The vocabulary used is not the spirit of the commission's mission. Mr. Maingain considered that, however, there was a step backwards on this issue from his original proposal. However, this majority amendment was the subject of consensus and was unanimously approved by the Committee on Justice. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, the text that is proposed for approval by the House, at the end of the day, is therefore to establish this commission, which will have the task of investigating the circumstances that led to the adoption and application of the law of 14 April 2011 containing various provisions with regard to the criminal transaction. The commission of inquiry is also responsible for examining, inter alia, the application by the Public Prosecutor's Office of article 207bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, in particular as amended by the Act on various provisions of 14 April 2011, from the entry into force of that Act until 20 August 2011. Finally, the committee of inquiry is responsible for examining the manner in which Mr Patokh Chodiev and also Mr Alijan Ibragimov have obtained Belgian nationality. The commission must draw conclusions and make recommendations while establishing possible responsibilities, all within three months to be able to report to the House. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the content of the proceedings. The text of this proposal, I think I have already said, has been voted unanimously by the 17 members present in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, in three weeks our Parliament has travelled a long and interesting journey on this Kazakhgate issue, with the vote, which will take place in a few dozen minutes, I am sure, of the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I consulted my archives: it was in October 2012 that I asked the first question relating to this file, following the publication by the Canard enchainé, in France, of some inquisitive information on the subject, starting from a letter from a character that we will undoubtedly learn to know in the framework of this commission, a certain Jean-François Étienne des Rosaies. He sent this letter to the then French Minister of the Interior, Claude Guéant. In essence, as you know now, this letter explained that France had managed to influence the adoption in Belgium of the law on criminal transaction for the benefit of a trio of Belgians of Kazakh origin involved in the Tractebel case. The possibility for this trio to escape a judicial sanction was presented as a condition for the conclusion of a trade agreement with Kazakhstan, in particular with a view to the sale of helicopters by France. It looks like a novel, but the parliamentary questions that I have been able to ask and the journalistic work that has been carried out since then and that must be emphasized – I can quote Le Monde, Mediapart, De Standaard, Le Soir and Le Vif-L'Express – show that the reality is perhaps not far from what some would prefer to consider fiction. At the very least, and it is gratifying, our Ecolo-Green group is no longer the only one who wants to know, more precisely and using all the means at the disposal of a parliament, what happened in this case, from the naturalization of these people until the entry into force, on 20 August 2011, of the principles then provisionally definitive of the criminal transaction. In a few minutes, our Parliament will decide on the establishment of a committee of inquiry and that is a very good thing, as the emotion, anger and questioning of the citizens about what we have presented, as ecologists, as a matter of state, are great. A State case, ladies and gentlemen, as a growing number of clues show that our State's sovereignty was undermined in 2011 in the interests of a neighbouring State, and that the three powers, including ours, the legislature, were influenced in this case. It is obviously not acceptable that, thanks to the power of money and political relations, we should be able to escape justice. All this will have to be the subject of a rigorous investigation, of course on a charge and a discharge – it is important to stress this. Others other than me will say it and have already said it. Where appropriate, all the prerogatives of a commission of inquiry should be used, of course, not to encroach on the judicial information currently under way, but also to provide us with all the means to approach the truth in this matter. In this respect, we must regret the chilling attitude of the majority towards the participation, first of all, of the first-mentioned text, which must be welcomed, namely Mr Maingain, in this committee of inquiry, as well as for the smaller political formations represented in this Parliament, but which are not part of the permanent committees. This chilliness and closeness to diversity can only give the impression that there would be things to hide. In the absence of a change of opinion today, which is still possible, by returning to the original proposed composition of this committee, we sincerely hope that its members will give us daily proof that they have nothing to hide and that the idea that they also want the whole truth on this issue is not limited to a slogan in the face of curious media or angry citizens. It will indeed be necessary to investigate all the dimensions of this case: the naturalization of the persons concerned, the decision-making process within the government, the legislative process, the way in which this criminal transaction was concluded against the request of the Minister of Justice, relayed by the public prosecutors, not to apply the law until the entry into force of the law correcting on 20 August 2011, when there was no legal basis for doing so in June of the same year. As far as the Ecolo Group is concerned, as is the case every time such an investigation is carried out in this Parliament through special or investigative committees, you can count on its full and full commitment in this committee, with the necessary reforms to prevent such conflicts of interest, to have a justice system that fights financial crime more effectively and to ensure that our democracy is respected. That is the sense that will have to be given to our positive vote in a few minutes' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is always a special moment in the life of a parliamentary assembly. I am aware that parliamentary committees of inquiry have increased in recent years, perhaps as an expression of a question as to how Parliament wishes to carry out a more in-depth review of certain issues, which have taken on a media or political dimension, which require greater vigilance. It is true that without the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, Parliament's investigative capacity is often insufficient to verify a number of facts and determine possible political responsibilities. I would like to point out that a parliamentary committee of inquiry is not a jurisdiction. The work ahead of us will have to determine possible responsibilities above all of a political nature, in any case certainly in the head of those who, if certain facts were confirmed, proved, established, would have assumed a responsibility in the course of the Chodiev case. We are not going to replace the judiciary or professional bodies that must ensure that the ethics of those who might be called into question are respected. Our concern, and the only one that is worth mentioning, is whether, in a case which may be born in the circle of the President of the French Republic, in the context of a negotiation, of which it must be said that it is never very transparent, aimed at the sale of helicopters by French companies to a non-recommendable State, namely Kazakhstan, in one way or another, the three powers of the Belgian State have been forced to carry out acts, to take initiatives, to promote the conclusion of a negotiation process between the French State and the Kazakh State. That's what this is about. It is a question of whether, in the end, our powers or certain members of our powers have been instrumentalised or have voluntarily contributed to the attainment of objectives which are not those which seek or protect the interests of the Belgian State. It is indeed a rather exceptional case, if the facts were to be confirmed, to see what might have been the influence of a neighbouring State, of course a friend, of course a partner of the European Union, but which, in this case, pursued objectives that are not necessarily – and certainly not in my view! – ours. That is the whole meaning of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. It will not be the trial of any person, even if everything starts obviously with the revelation that concerns a parliamentarian and an eminent figure in Belgian political life. But it will in any case be the search for the verification of what the decision processes have been in a file like that. Whether it is within the executive branch, whether it is within the legislative branch, or within the judiciary. It cannot be accepted that a power of any kind in a State governed by the rule of law serves obscure purposes, in particular through the adoption of a law which would ultimately aim at resolving a particular case with regard to the interests of a single State or a neighbouring State. That's not acceptable. This debate is not recent, Mr Gilkinet recalled. I believe that as early as October 2012, we were a few to worry about this situation following the revelations of the chained Duck. Already at the time I called for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. It must be said, if there had not been the investigative work of the press, if there had not been the revelations, by what the press was willing to reveal, of the investigative work carried out by the prosecutor's office, probably many would still have preferred to silence this painful affair for some time; try, if not to conceal it, in any case not to reveal it to the public. That is why I believe that the desire to set up this parliamentary committee of inquiry honours our Assembly. What will definitely honour our Parliament will be its ability to truly make all the transparency on this matter and to determine the conclusions that should be drawn from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u132	Mr President, we will support the proposal. We think it is particularly important to examine the links between politics and Chodiev. At the same time, we have a lot of skepticism, even a lot of skepticism, to put it mildly. Many parliamentary committees of inquiry have been set up in that hemisphere, mainly since 1980. Before that, that instrument was rarely used. However, when I go over the list of parliamentary committees of inquiry, I note that they have produced very little concrete results. I also know very well that in Belgium, unlike in other countries, there is no tradition of crossing the line between majority and opposition in parliamentary committees of inquiry. We do not know that tradition at all in Belgium, on the contrary, given what has appeared in the media in recent days about the Terrorist attacks investigation committee. I am thinking of the interrogation of the liaison officer about whom so much has already been done, and who apparently came to the committee to testify behind closed doors. Afterwards, I have heard the most varied interpretations. Members of the opposition claimed that the liaison officer was judged far too early and I read in the newspapers that members of the majority actually confirm this off the record. But the story of the group chairman of the party of the minister concerned sounded very different, if the minister may sleep on his two ears. Well, in itself this proves that I think it is already the failure of the parliamentary committees of inquiry in Belgium. We therefore support this proposal because we believe that clarity is necessary and because all the little bits help, but my group is aware that it will only be a very small bit. I fear, with the poor experience and bad practice of parliamentary committees of inquiry in this Belgian Parliament, that it will be much worse this time. After all, for the first time in history, a parliamentary committee of inquiry will actually also consider the functioning of the Chamber. In other words, one is in favour of a large piece of judge and party. I do not believe in it either because the matter goes to the heart of the Prime Minister's political party. There are names of a former Senate president and a former Walloon minister, no little boys in that political party. The links between lobby groups and parliaments should also be examined. I would remind you, when a colleague here resigned a few months ago, that she wrote in her resignation letter that she had experienced as a Member of Parliament that laws are written somewhere in backrooms, without knowing who writes those laws. The moment that colleague wrote that, she was visionary. A few weeks later, this case broke out and it is true that amendments were adopted in the Finance Committee and subsequently in the plenary session which would have been better not to have been adopted. I refer to Mr Veerle Wouters' speech last week. I believe it is high time for reflection. I hope, despite all my scepticism, that the parliamentary committee of inquiry may lead to reflection on the functioning of this Parliament. Make no mistake about what happened to that payoff bill, which has to do with the participation. That has to do with it. If MEPs could and could do their work without getting orders on what to do, then I guarantee you that the amendment to the buy-back law would not have been approved in the Finance Committee. I see an eminent member of the majority nodding yes. So the question is who writes the laws in this country. Who writes here the amendments that Members of Parliament are forced to table, to avoid the Council of State's opinions and to introduce arrangements that have been devised at some point in the last minute? I believe that there might be an answer to these kinds of questions. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the small groups. When I read the report, I found it disdainful to the majority, to be honest. From the beginning of this legislature, the small groups are excluded. Now it is said that there is justice to rule them out. No, there was arrogance at the beginning of this legislature and that arrogance has just gotten even bigger. I understand, however, that the majority do not want the small groups to sit on that committee. I understand that. This is in favour of the small groups, for the dynamics of the small groups, which have a lot less to do with participation. I understand very well that the majority does not want Mr Hedebouw to be on that committee, that the majority does not want Mr Maingain to be on that committee, that the majority does not want Mrs Pas to be on that committee and that she certainly does not want me to be on that committee. I understand that very well. The fear of the majority is in favour of our small groups. I've also read their arguments. One can act crazy, one can act crazy and one can act crazy. I have also read the argument that such a committee is composed of 17 members and that if all the small groups were added, it would be made up of 71 members. That is what Mr De Roover said. That committee would consist of 22 members. That was probably a miscalculation by Mr De Roover. The way we read it in the newspapers all day long, this is sometimes the case with the N-VA. I decide. Our group will vote in favour, but at the same time we are expressing our healthy scepticism. In any case, we will look very critically at these conclusions, as will the conclusions on the committee dealing with the attacks, and we will certainly inform you of our reservations about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u133	Mr President, first of all, our group will support this proposal. Secondly, we regret that the amendments tabled in committee by our groups and by other groups aimed at allowing the small groups to participate in the work of this committee of inquiry have not received a majority. Thirdly, I would like to address Mrs Sophie De Wit. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to avoid having difficult discussions and debates later on. A first superficial comparison of the original text submitted by Maingain, with the text finally adopted, teaches me the following. Article 1 defines the research assignment. That task was much broader in the original proposal and was described with more words. It stated that the commission's mandate was to investigate all the circumstances that led to the preparation and adoption of the law of 14 April 2011. If we include, very superficially, the text that was finally adopted, we note that the committee's mandate is to investigate the circumstances which led to the adoption and application of the law. So the preparation has gone away. On this point, there was an amendment in committee following a comment by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke. According to the report, Mrs Sophie De Wit, the main proposer of the amendment, has responded as follows: "The amendments of the majority groups have no mandate whatsoever to restrict the research mission." It is therefore clear, as Mr Van Hecke also pointed out in committee, that, following Mrs Sophie De Wit's statement, the main proposer of the majority proposals, the text which we will soon adopt cannot and should not mean that everything that preceded a text submitted in the Chamber should not be investigated. The preparation should therefore also be able to be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in this case there is an extremely strong popular emotion because everything we hear actually affects the very foundation of our democracy. One of the great foundations of our democracy is the separation of powers. No one better than Monstequieu has defined this separation, in his treatise of the Spirit of Laws: "In order that one may not abuse power, it is necessary that, by the disposition of things, power cease power". One of the main questions is whether or not there has been collusion between powers to protect men, private interests or financial interests. Other questions will also be raised. Was there corruption? Yes or no, have promises of benefits of any kind been used to influence officials, agents for the benefit of private or public persons or foreign persons or powers? These are fundamental questions. I therefore wholeheartedly support the establishment of this committee of inquiry. As I said in committee, at a time when many pujadists are calling into question our democratic system, we must defend it by making clarity, transparency, by tracking individual and collective mistakes and by making recommendations to improve the functioning of public institutions. Having said that, I agree in part with what Mr Vuye has just said about the functioning of Parliament. In particular, when it comes to commissions of inquiry, especially when it comes to working on powers, we must obviously overcome the majority-opposition divide. Now I'm totally following you. I would even say that every individual parliamentarian must form his own conviction outside of party disciplines, which can be understood in other circumstances, but not on the occasion of a committee of inquiry. That is why I fully supported the idea, in a dossier like this, that all the components of this House could be represented in this committee of inquiry. I'm saying it clearly. But what I blame the majority is not only for preventing the small parties from being present, but also for amending the proposal that is on the table to increase the number of agents from larger groups, so that two additional representatives of the majority, two additional Liberals, are part of it. This gives the impression of a majority who already want to protect themselves from any conclusions of the committee of inquiry. What is happening is serious, and I would like to say to all my colleagues and the government that amendments are on the table and that it would be wiser, more understandable, clearer, more democratic not to go in that direction and not to taint the committee in a way by this fundamental vice, this initial defect. That's what I meant, Mr. President. Yes to the commission of inquiry! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I really appeal to the vigilance of each other so that we can have a job that goes beyond this partisan work, this majority work against transparency and the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u135	Mr President, much has already been said. I am certainly referring to Mr Gilkinet's speech. He has been very active lately and has asked many parliamentary questions in the Committee on Justice and the answers to them will be very interesting for the work. Unfortunately, he is now being somewhat obstructed, because the Attorney General refuses to forward draft replies to the Minister of Justice, given the imminent establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. He went on strike. The Attorney General is apparently eager to come first and answer all our questions. That is why we should not delay its creation for too long. Why is the creation of the Committee of Inquiry important, ladies and gentlemen? That is because the problem we are dealing with here affects the very essence of our democratic system and the functioning of Parliament. We are almost certain of this for reasons other than the general interest. However, here we are supposed to behave and pass laws in the general interest and interest of our country. Other interests have played a role here, namely the interests of another country, in this case France, and the interests of a corrupt elite who wants to escape Belgian justice. If people are instrumentalized, pressured or misled to pass a law, to defend private interests, then we have a serious problem and a committee of inquiry is absolutely in place. The commission of the Committee of Inquiry has several aspects. Of course, it is primarily about the possible role that Mr De Decker has played in getting the law through Parliament quickly, about all the contacts he may have had with ministers at the time, with Members of Parliament or others. It also deals with the conduct of the meetings of the Finance Commission and so much more. However, as Mr Van der Maelen said, we must also look at the history of origin. Last week, a media report from Apache clearly demonstrated that we also need to examine in depth how the text was registered and by whom. After all, there are many indications that the text was written at a table where not only the lawyers of the diamond industry were sitting, but also the Attorney General of Antwerp. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if we find that texts were written there and found their way to Parliament and that the explanatory memorandum for 90% corresponds to a legislative proposal submitted in 2011 and to Amendment No. 18, which was subsequently submitted to the Finance Committee, raises many questions. I have no problem with others writing lyrics, but we need to know what game we are playing. It is unacceptable that judges and lawyers of the diamond lobby, opponents in the fight against tax fraud, begin to write laws together. This aspect too, ladies and gentlemen, must be dealt with in the Committee of Inquiry. I was worried for a moment when I saw that a word had disappeared at the committee meeting, but all my fellow Members from the majority reassured me that everything that led to the buy-back law, the whole preparation, could be dealt with. I am once again getting confirmation of this, and I really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should also look at this aspect in depth. Then, of course, there is the question of how the law, once adopted, was applied, especially in that very difficult period after the adoption of the first version, after which the repair law was followed. By the way, the fastest repair law in Belgian history has been approved for the buy-back law. In the Senate it was even started to discuss the repair law even before the first version of the law was published in the Belgian Official Journal. No doubt we have the world record repair in our name. In a period of 3 to 4 months, a law was applied, which still had to be repaired. Weird things happened back then. The law was applied by the judiciary, in this case a parquet magistraat, which he could not actually apply, because the law itself did not allow it and there were instructions to follow a particular procedure, which would not have been followed in the end. For the second time, we see the judiciary emerge. The first time was when the text was written, a second time when it was applied. So we have a problem here. We have to look at ourselves. There has been a problem in the Chamber of Legislative Authorities. There has been a problem with ministers who have been called in. However, there has also been a problem with the judiciary. The three powers are involved here. I think that's unseen. That is why the Committee of Inquiry is so important. I understand Mr Vuye, who warns against such committees, because they do not always produce the results we expect from them. Mr Vuye, we must not be so pessimistic. We never know in advance whether a committee at the end of the journey will prove to be a strong committee with strong reports and strong recommendations. It is up to the members of that committee to ensure that it becomes a strong report. For this to happen, we must be able to work together across borders of majority and opposition. There have been committees of inquiry. I have participated in a few of them, the results of which have been good. The Committee of Inquiry for which the least media attention was paid, namely in which tax fraud was investigated, has had quite a large impact. Not everything has been carried out as we would have liked. There were 108 recommendations, but a lot of work has been done, building on the results of the committee. The Dutroux Committee has also led to a revolution in justice in the area of victims' rights. Without the Dutroux Committee, there would be no whole chapter relevant to the victims. But we're still not here. That is what we saw in the attacks. As far as aid and assistance to victims are concerned, we can still take a great deal of further steps. Nor should we be pessimistic and assume in advance that this committee will lead to little or nothing. It is the responsibility of all those who will soon be on the committee to ensure that serious work is carried out and that we deliver a sound piece of work. We will have to be critical of ourselves and of the whole political class. For these reasons, we will support the creation of this committee of inquiry with great conviction. We hope that, beyond the limits of majority and opposition, we will work constructively and, if necessary, we will perhaps be judged in a harsh way for ourselves. Within three, four or five months, when the work is finished, we will see if we have succeeded. You can certainly count on our constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u136	At the outset, the Reform Movement expressed its support for this committee of inquiry because we consider it essential to make full and unreserved clarification of the issues involved and to ensure all the necessary transparency in this matter. With the unanimous agreement of the Justice Committee on Tuesday, we were able to agree on the scope of work of our committee of inquiry on the adoption and enforcement of the criminal transaction law. This committee will have to make recommendations as to the possible responsibilities, but more than likely we will also have to make a decision in terms of the ethics of the parliamentarian. Without any ambiguity, the MR has already ruled on the matter. From the point of view of the Reform Movement and on the basis of the principles that drive us, Mr. De Decker committed a deontological error. We do not allow any ambiguity in this regard. On the issue of the adoption of the Criminal Transaction Act, the work of our committee of inquiry will be particularly important, because it will be to analyse the parliamentary process related to the adoption of this legislation. The commission of inquiry will look at our own functioning, the functioning of the chamber. Inevitably, we have a collective responsibility in this matter. We must not let any shadow zone over this operation. It is our collective responsibility to ensure that our house is in order. This will also include an analysis of the application of the Criminal Transaction Act and their correspondence with the coming into force of the legislation. We will have to ensure that this committee of inquiry can be set up as soon as possible, by joining the team of experts who will enable it to ensure respect for the work of the justice system, which is still under way. It is not a matter of controversy - we discussed it at length in the Committee on Justice on Tuesday - and this committee of inquiry is being set up on a strictly identical basis to proportional representation, as was the case in the Optima Committee and in the Terrorist Attacks Committee of 22 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u137	Mr President, our group will certainly support the proposal. A parliamentary committee of inquiry is an important instrument which must not be used for nothing. Kazachgate is heavy enough to use the most important instrument a Parliament has. There is a need for total transparency, as Mr Maingain has just announced. However, allow me to dwell for a moment on the composition of the Committee of Inquiry, because in view of all the tough statements that we want to take the bottom line in such a parliamentary committee of inquiry, that we really want to find out the truth, that we want to achieve total transparency, it would be logical that all the critical votes and all the parties in such committee of inquiry should be represented if we really want to achieve that objective. The whole discussion about the main proposer surprised me a little, first and foremost because the main proposer himself approved the bill of sale at the time, but also because I compare it with the other parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks, which can now be followed with closed doors and subsequently with different versions in the press. At that time it was the Flemish interest that had asked a committee of inquiry into the attacks in Paris months before, but then I did not hear anyone squeak about the importance of involving the initiator, quite the contrary. At that time, the political decision was taken among ourselves to limit the composition of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to the recognized groups. I must disappoint Mrs Onkelinx who refers to case law according to which Flemish Interesters would not be welcome in the work of that parliamentary committee of inquiry. I have already experienced a number of them myself, such as the Committee on Tax Fraud, to which Mr Van Hecke has already referred. She has indeed done a very good job and Hagen Goyvaerts and I have worked very constructively on it. I was also on the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the Fortis case, although it was good that we were in it, otherwise it would have become a cover-up committee, because anything but clear-cut was clearly the intention of the majority parties who were on that parliamentary committee of inquiry. Colleagues from N-VA, Els De Rammelaere was in that parliamentary committee of inquiry for N-VA without voting rights, just like Jean-Marie Dedecker was on that committee of inquiry without voting rights. Today we are asking for no more or no less than to apply the same proportional composition without voting rights, so that we can at least participate in such a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The self-declared democrats are hiding behind so-called non-democratic parties, but it would be democracy itself to allow all parties to be represented in them and to allow Members to play the role for which they were finally elected. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I read, like the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks, as a great argument to keep the small parties out, that it would not be workable. I read that Mr De Roover puts the number of Members at 71 with a quack instead of 17 if all small parties were to participate. There are 22, Mr De Roover. I suspect you will use the same tables as Minister Van Overtveldt when calculating income. However, I would like to ask you one thing. At least have the guts and the honesty to admit that it is purely a political decision and do not put away any excuses that there would be too many, that it would not be workable. Everyone knows this is bullshit. You are merely giving the impression that there is something to hide effectively, that there is another reason why critical votes are being withheld from such parliamentary committees of inquiry. In setting up this parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks, I warned that it would be a dangerous precedent to rule out critical votes. All the parliamentary committees of inquiry which have since been set up in this House show that you are persevering in anger. It was indeed a dangerous precedent. I must therefore join with previous speakers, who are not very optimistic about the clarity that this parliamentary committee of inquiry will bring. I'll give them a little bit of the benefit of the doubt. We will therefore support this. If you really want to do what you say you want to do, in particular to make it perfectly clear, then I am counting on you to support the small parties' amendments so that they can at least participate in the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work that this committee will do is crucial, because we are dealing with a state affair, a case in which we are witnessing the collusion of the three powers (legislative power, executive power and the judiciary) with the economic power which is not the most worthy when it comes to characters like Chodiev and the possible intervention of foreign states. We are therefore dealing here with a very serious matter, which calls into question the foundations of parliamentary democracy and, as some colleagues have said, the functioning of this Parliament. It is paradoxical for me not to be able to fully support a proposal to which I am a signatory. As some members have pointed out, there is a major problem in the composition of this committee. As a reminder, Mr Maingain introduced this text, which I was the first to co-sign. Subsequently, the other opposition and majority parties joined or supported this initiative, in any case for some. Article 3 of the original text provided for 15 members plus one per group not recognised. And it is an amendment by the majority that has "damaged" the presence of so-called small groups, unrecognized groups. The Act of 3 May 1880, which lays down the terms of these commissions of inquiry, states that: "Every member of the House has the right to attend the inquiry of the commission, unless the Chamber or the commission decides otherwise". Therefore, it is clear that the spirit of the law is a spirit of openness to all MPs, whether they are appointed members or not. Mind is one thing. The interpretation that can be made of it is another one. What is not at all clear in this law is whether the official non-members of the commission, whether members of a small group or not, have the right to attend public meetings and in camera, have the right to intervene and to table amendments. All this is not entirely clear in the 1880 Act. This obviously involved clarifying the possibility for a party such as the PTB to be a full member or, in any case, without a deliberative voice, but to be a member of that committee. However, the majority invokes continuity. [[Compared to what?]] Compared to its own practice in other commissions of inquiry. As far as the Attentats Committee and the Optima Committee are concerned, we have already intervened to question our exclusion. As far as the Optima Committee is concerned, I spoke in the Finance Committee to table an amendment to allow us to participate. And what was the argument of the majority? Perhaps the Chairman of the Finance Committee remembers this: there was no argument! Moreover, the chairman of the Finance Committee asked, in despair, whether no one in the majority wanted to intervene to justify the exclusion of small parties. No! No one wanted to speak to defend the small parties and bring arguments. Here, one hears an argument of operating problem. This is quite laughable, since every day in the Standing Committees we operate in the way we proposed to operate in this committee. We can also mention the case of the Panama Papers special committee, whose small parties are members, of which I am a member. There has never been any operational problem with this composition. So these are false pretexts! And this is a democratic problem! I wanted to quote from the report, in particular what colleagues Van der Maelen, Onkelinx and Gilkinet have said to defend our presence in this committee. We heard the report, we heard colleagues repeat their arguments. So I'm not going to quote them, it's pointless. It is clear that the democratic issue is fundamental in these committees, and particularly in this committee, where, par excellence, it is an issue on which small parties should not be excluded, especially as we are going to discuss the very functioning of the House. But we are still excluding members of this chamber! We're talking about continuity, but if we look at the work before this legislature, we've met every case. There were nine to twenty-three committee members, and there were various committees where unrecognized groups were represented. I can quote from this: Nuclear safety in 1988, Criminality organised in 1996, Rwanda in 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing an amendment simply to go back to the original text, i.e. to provide, in addition to the members of the recognised groups, for one member per unrecognized group. I think the issue is really a democratic one. To prevent this exclusion from being understood as the will of a self-governing party where things could be settled between traditional parties and by excluding others, the vote you will vote on this amendment will be quite decisive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u139	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u140	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2179/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2179/4) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the circumstances which led to the adoption and application of the law of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions as regards the amicable settlement in criminal matters." The title has been amended by the committee in "proposal to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the circumstances leading to the adoption and application of the law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, with regard to the criminal transaction". The proposal contains 7 articles. The proposal has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u141	• 6 "Raoul Hedebouw cs" (2179/5) • 7 – Barbara Pas (2179/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u142	• 9 – Olivier Maingain cs (2179/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u143	• 10... Olivier Maingain cs (2179/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u144	I have Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, I have received Amendments Nos 7 and 8 from Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mrs Stéphanie Thoron and Mr M. Vincent Van Quickenborne and Stefaan Vercamer on the bill on various health provisions, No. 2154/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016, I propose that these amendments be sent back to the Social Affairs Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016, I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Social Affairs. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u145	The Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016 shall postpone until 15 March 2017 the deadline for the submission of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. The Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016 proposes to the House of Representatives to postpone the final date for the tabling of the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, by 15 March 2017 at the latest. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u146	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Roel Deseyn and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the threatened witnesses, No. 2193/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sonja Becq and others) on the processing of personal data by the Federal Public Service Justice in the context of the execution of custodial sentences and measures of deprivation of liberty and the management of the establishments in which such execution takes place, No. 2194/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u147	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Roel Deseyn) on the further democratisation of supplementary pensions, No. 2195/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u148	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 November 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Raf Terwingen and Roel Deseyn and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with regard to threatened witnesses, No. 2193/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Raf Terwingen and Ms Sonja Becq et al.) concerning the processing of personal data by the Federal Public Service Justice in the context of the enforcement of sentences and custodial measures and the management of institutions in which such execution is carried out, No. 2194/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u149	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Sonja Becq and Mr Roel Deseyn) on the further democratisation of supplementary pensions, No 2195/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u150	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u151	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to energy, No. 2188/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various energy provisions, No. 2188/1. I propose that we speak out on this question at the sitting and stand up. I propose that we take a stand on this request. As usual, I ask the government first to justify the request for urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good practice to justify the question of urgency, but it is equally good practice to listen to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sections 12 and 13 of the Act providing for the confirmation by law, with effect from 1 January 2016, of two decrees: a royal decree of 18 December 2015 and a royal decree of 26 December 2015. To the extent that these two royal decrees contain provisions related to provisions of tax law, they must in any event be confirmed by law before 1 January 2017. I thank you, therefore, for accepting the urgency requested by the government for these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u153	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 22 November 2016 This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 22 November 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 189/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Daniel Senesael; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 189/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Daniel Senesael; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u154	Yes 76 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 77 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2142/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2142/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1924/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1924/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, with two text improvements on point 1. It will be notified to the government. (1984/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, with two corrections to point 1. This will be made known to the government. (1984/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 90 Yes No. [[35]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1579/13) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1579/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u159	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 4. (2179/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 4. (2179/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Not to Article 4. (2179/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Beware of Article 4. (2179/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 6 Yes No. 130 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u160	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 4. (2179/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 4. (2179/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 4. (2179/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 4. (2179/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 53 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 10 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 6. (2179/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 6. (2179/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[60]] Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Mr Luk Van Biesen voted no.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (2179/6) The Court therefore accepts the proposal. (2179/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Colleagues, as agreed at the Conference of Presidents, there is now a three-minute suspension so that I can get the names of the members of the Committee of Inquiry. I have not yet received the names of the N-VA and PS groups. We suspend the session for a few minutes. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u162	The sitting will be suspended at 7.09 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u163	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u164	I propose that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Friendly Resolution in Criminal Matters be set up. I propose that you proceed with the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Criminal Transaction". The committee shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the Chamber of Representatives among its members, according to the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The Commission shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups. An alternate shall be appointed by political group. He shall be appointed one alternate member per political group. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: N-VA: 4 PS: 3 MR: 3 CD&V: 2 Open Vld: 2 sp.a: 1 Ecolo-Green: 1 cdH: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee. N-VA
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u165	- Sophie De Wit - Conseil Degroote - Werner Janssen - Goedele Uyttersprot
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u166	- Peter De Roover. PS
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u167	- Eric Massin - Karine Lalieux - Olivier Maingain
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u168	- Julie Fernandez Fernandez (Rumoer / Rumor) Ladies and gentlemen, the PS Group has decided to ask Mr Maingain to be a member of this committee of inquiry. This is an exception to Rule 158 of our Rules of Procedure, but you should be aware that there are precedents. I would like this Chamber to take note of the fact that we are here to depart from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u169	Mr President, will Mr De Roover do the same in favour of Mr Vuye?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u170	Anyone who can be appointed when it comes to members of the Chamber. That's the obvious self. Does the House take note? [[Oui]] So I'm going on. MR
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u171	- David Clarinval - Damien Thiéry - Gilles Foret
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u172	- Kattrin Jadin CD&V
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u173	- Sonja Becq - Vincent Van Peteghem
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u174	- Roel Deseyn Open Vld
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u175	- Vincent Van Quickenborne - Sabien Lahaye-Battheu
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u176	- Tim Vandenput sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u177	- Dirk Van der Maelen
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u178	- Peter Vanvelthoven Ecolo-Green
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u179	- Georges Gilkinet
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u180	- Stefaan Van Hecke cdH
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u181	- Francis Delperee
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u182	- Christian Brotcorne Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. Ladies and gentlemen, after this plenary session, we shall proceed to the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry in the International Hall. All those who sit in this committee are expected in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-01-54-plenair-ip142x.u183	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 8 December 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 8 December 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 8 December at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 8 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
