ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u1	I suggest you start with those who are present. We'll start with a lot of questions together; so much so for those who are absent. Mrs. Jadin announces she's not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u2	Madam President, Minister, several international studies have shown that the profession of physician, and you are certainly well placed to know it, presents a high risk of suicide, due to emotional pressure, stress or the heavy responsibilities that function generates. On this basis, the association of Flemish general practitioners Domus Medica proposed the idea of imposing an annual psychological check on general practitioners, with a view to preventing suicides. The association of medical trade unions and the Belgian group of general practitioners opposed this type of generalised control. Minister, can you provide us with data on suicide rates among physicians who practice in our country? What do you think about the introduction of such controls? Are there other avenues to address burn-out and depression that affect many physicians? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u3	Minister, this proposal by Domus Medica is absolutely not unanimous among general practitioners. Is this an important issue? Yes, and it is all the more so as the overall situation becomes more and more complex for this profession, for various reasons. The safety aspects still have to be classified among them. Some general practitioners are isolated. Let us not forget the problem of the guards. The origin is in any case complex. Minister, what is your position on the introduction of a mandatory annual interview for all general practitioners? Beyond your position, the real challenge is to provide effective support to general practitioners in the face of the difficulties they may encounter. Would it not be important on this and its issues to organise a consultation with the organizations representing general practitioners, and to consider measures to be put in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u4	Mrs Fonck and Mr Senesael, thank you for your questions. Domus Medica submitted a proposal concerning the obligation to perform an annual psychological check on each attending physician. This will be an unnecessary burden for most of them. It therefore seems more relevant to me to opt for prevention or targeted assistance, as some organisations, such as Doctors for Doctors, are already doing. The Order in West Flanders has also taken an initiative called Arts Inhoud, which is also a valuable instrument for doctors in difficulty. I can only encourage them to address this type of organisation or the regular networks of primary care providers and psychologists. A consultation has already taken place in my office and in INAMI on the fight against burn-out among health-care providers, including treating physicians, and on its prevention. To this end, a budget of €200,000 has been made available under the 2013-2014 medico-mutualist agreement. Concrete proposals have not yet been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u5	Madam Minister, thank you. I am pleased to see that aid is available and that a call can be made for targeted aid so that doctors do not remain in need in this regard. On the other hand, I am surprised that a budget of EUR 200 000 is reserved for this issue, but that no concrete proposals have been made at the moment. That is why we should reflect on the pragmatic and effective use of this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. This is a real issue. Domus Medica's proposal seems inappropriate to me, as it will increase the stress among doctors. On the other hand, in practical terms, how can one imagine such an annual evaluation test for 42,000 general practitioners? It's unfeasible. We must opt for targeted aid and permanent availability for generalists. Support initiatives already exist. Maybe they should be completed. I can only insist, Madam Minister, on the need for effective and correct consultation with the organizations representing the generalists on this essential subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u7	Minister, my colleague Vanessa Matz has already questioned you last July on the question of the patient's free choice when a patient has been followed by a general practitioner and a physiotherapist for several years and when this general practitioner decides to associate with other doctors, physiotherapists and nurses. The kine that follows this patient should continue his activity alone. In fact, this means for the patient that he or she must agree to change physiotherapist if he or she wants to continue to be cared for by his or her general practitioner. You told him that patients facing this situation "can file a complaint because it is against freedom of choice". Minister, could you give me more details on the means of action available to patients facing this situation? Does this mean that these patients can decide to continue to be followed both by their general practitioner who has settled in a medical home and by their physiotherapist who continues his activity alone, as an independent? What about the reimbursement of these different types of care?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u8	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your question. It should be recalled that the conditions under which beneficiaries of insurance may register in a medical home are precisely defined in the Royal Decree of 23 April 2013 implementing article 52, paragraph 1, of the Law on Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance as coordinated by the Law of 14 July 1994 on Medical Homes. As far as the patient's free choice is concerned, there are specific provisions in the Royal Decree which organise this principle in a precise way, taking into account the specific context in which the medical homes operate and the way in which they receive the health care insurance fees for their patients. It is a flat-rate system for all the care to be provided. If it is true that the beneficiary can register in the medical home of his or her choice, he or she may still request that the registration be terminated. Article 17 of the Royal Decree is clear in this respect: every beneficiary who enrols with a health care provider or a group of health care providers may denounce this registration before the end of each month with the insurer and the health care provider. The entry expires at the end of the month following the month of the denunciation. In addition, the Royal Decree introduced a test system at the beginning of registration. It may be extended if deemed necessary by the beneficiary. Article 15, paragraph 1, subparagraphs 4 and 5, stipulates that medical home providers may grant benefits and collect fee for the fee if these benefits are provided to the registered beneficiary during the calendar month of registration. At the time of its first registration, however, a beneficiary may request that the benefits be reimbursed for the act within a period of up to three months which cannot be renewed. As far as the specific situation described by you is concerned, I must draw your attention to the fact that the content of the form, which must be signed by each beneficiary wishing to join a medical home, states that: "if the medical home expands the offer of care, the subscriber is supposed to adhere automatically to the entire offer". At the time of their initial registration, beneficiaries are therefore explicitly informed of the possibility of an extension of the provision of care during the registration period. It is clear that, in this case, beneficiaries may terminate their registration pursuant to Article 17 above. The regulatory framework does not prevent medical homes from having several opportunities. They may first agree with the beneficiary and the physiotherapist with this patient on the continuation of ongoing treatment and the payment of fees. In the practice of their relationship with their patients, medical homes may also apply a transitional arrangement, for example, for two years. It provides patients with the opportunity to exercise their right to freely choose their providers. In the event of a problem, beneficiaries may request intervention from their insurer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u9	Thank you, minister, for that detailed answer. You had already mentioned the first part of your answer in your reply to Mrs Matz in July. You are going further today in the details. If I understand correctly, the medical home applies a package and at some point, you have to choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u10	We can't take the cherries from one system and the cherries from the other. You have to choose. But some consultation with the medical home is possible, making it possible to change this choice. This also means having all the information at the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u11	Thank you for that addition. The situation I described concerned someone who had been treated by another person before. I guess it happens several times. I will therefore pass on your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u12	Madam Secretary, we have passed an important law here at the beginning of this year which allows patients with haemochromatosis to register as a blood donor. Today we note that there are no implementing decisions yet. We also hear this from several people who offered themselves as donors, but they were refused by reference to the Red Cross note that this cannot be done today until we have a legal basis on the conditions and parameters of the maintenance phase. A few weeks ago, I asked you a question about this. You said at the time that you were busy working on a technical working group, composed of the policy cell, the FAGG and the blood establishments, in order to align the implementation of the law. It is logical that there should then be a preliminary draft from KB which goes through the usual procedures. What is the state of play on this Royal Decree today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u13	Minister, my question is very simple. What is the status of the adoption of this royal decree since without a detailed and controllable regulation which was intended to be carried out by decree, the law is an empty shell. Therefore, it is important that this provision can be foreseen. The stakes are important. Regularly, there are deficiencies at the level of the Red Cross and this is one element among others that would allow for greater availability of blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u14	Mrs Muylle, Mrs Fonck, it appears that the delegation given to the King under Article 4 is too limited. I will therefore propose that the legal anchor be incorporated into Article 11/1 of the 1994 Blood Act. A double delegation shall be given to the King. The King shall determine the conditions under which a person is considered as asymptomatic carrier of the HFE mutations, the criteria and parameters applicable for the maintenance phase, as well as the content of the medical report and the follow-up report. The King shall also determine the date of entry into force of the preceding paragraph. Detailed implementing rules are still needed to ensure their uniform and appropriate application by the treating physician and the blood establishment. In order to state clearly that Article 11/1 of the Blood Act cannot be applied before the necessary implementing provisions are laid down by royal decree, the King should be empowered to fix the date of entry into force of Article 11/1. Meanwhile, there have been consultations between drug agencies, blood establishments and my strategic cell. Once we have a solid legal basis, an enforcement order will be adopted. It's a little late, but it'll be in the next few months. This order will set not only the conditions and parameters for the maintenance phase but also as requested, with the contents of the medical report and follow-up report to be prepared by the treating physician and the donor patient. In addition, it will be clarified what the legislator means by asymptomatic carriers of HFE mutations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u15	Thank you, Madam Minister, this is a new element, especially as regards the first aspect of your reply. So I understand that you are the one who has to take a legal initiative to anchor the legal base. Can we expect this under the programme law laying down various provisions at the end of this year? Or will this only take place with a forthcoming legislative initiative in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u16	It'll be for 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u17	It will therefore move to 2017. Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u18	Madam President, Minister, if I understand correctly, you are going to make a correct law. What I am proposing, since the history of this issue is not very clean, is that we can intelligently, i.e. the government and here in Parliament in the Health Committee, draft an amendment to correct this law and pass this amendment within the framework of the law containing various provisions which, if I have understood correctly, will be discussed next week. I think it would be nice not to postpone what should have been done properly at first. Everyone can be wrong. Me too. But then, let's straighten things out right away. I therefore propose that we work together on this issue when we look at your bill next week. Let's do it with you. The objective is not at all to make it a political issue. I think it would be really good, given the stakes involved, if we could do so next week and move it forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u19	Madam Minister, I wanted, when you said that the deadline will be too short to come next week or in fifteen days with the improved legislative framework, is it in relation to what you said, namely that asymptomatic situations should be redefined better, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What are the difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u20	This is an additional difficulty that we have seen in concert. I will move forward as quickly as possible, but we still need to ensure that we have a solid legal basis to avoid problems. I'll ask if they're ready and if they are, it'll obviously be okay for me. Having said that, I think there are still things that are not very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u21	It is true that it would be good to ask for it and see if we can attach it to the text that we will have to adopt before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, Come on against Cancer has produced a comprehensive report on the cost of dental care for people with cancer. Essentially, this report concludes that the existing reimbursement of dental care is not tailored to the needs of some cancer patients. Refund of implants is subject to strict conditions. Even if a removable prosthesis does not provide a solution for the patient, an implant is not eligible for reimbursement. There is no refund for bridges and crowns, even if a loose prosthesis is not a solution. As far as prostheses are concerned, there is the problem that they often need to be adapted and that there is no refund for these adjustments. Refund for implants should be requested from the College of Medical Directors. Today we see a lot of refusals. Come on against Cancer proposes that the College should use dental and cancer specialists in these applications. Finally, Kom op tegen Kanker also proposes measures in the field of prevention. Being able to retain one's own teeth is of course the best solution. Come on against Cancer proposes that certain categories of cancer patients should be entitled to four limestone removals per year, a scheme that is already in force today for disabled people. She also asks for the refund of fluoride lacquers and pine gels. It is clear that we need to review the conditions for reimbursement of dental care for cancer patients, taking into account the fact that removable prostheses are often not possible for this target group. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to examine, together with the dental services, cancer specialists and representatives of cancer patients, how to improve the conditions for reimbursement of prevention and dental care for cancer patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u23	Madam President, Minister, my question is similar to that of Mrs Somers. Cancer patients and ex-cancer patients sometimes have to make up to €20,000 out of their own pocket for dental care. The Kom op tegen Kanker Foundation has made a number of proposals in this area. She also stressed the importance for the health and well-being of these patients. The proposals before us are as follows: to ease the conditions for the reimbursement of implants; to repay implants, bridges and crowns when the patient has no other choice; to grant the same rights to cancer survivors as those granted to disabled persons in respect of tartar removals; to provide clear information on the cost of treatment, because this too appears to be a problem. I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary. Are you going to deal with the proposals of Kom op op tegen Kanker, which I think are very reasonable and justified? If so, what measures will you take and what timetable do you envisage? Will you pay specific attention to (ex-) cancer patients in your Medical Devices and Implants Pact? If so, can you give us some more details on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the report by Kom op op tegen Kanker on the cost of dental care in people with cancer was presented in September to the National Committee on Dental Health, the so-called Dentomut Committee, within the RIZIV. The Committee reviewed the report and decided to include it in the discussions on the new priorities of the National Agreement to be concluded by the end of 2016, namely the National Dentomut Agreement 2017-2018. I also believe that this is the right framework to examine an improvement in the reimbursement of dental care in people whose dental quality was affected by cancer treatment. That'll be a big part of the Dentomut chord. A thorough analysis of the recommendations has already been carried out in preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u25	Madam Secretary, your answer is short, but very clear. The report will be taken into account. I hope that a good follow-up will be given to cancer patients with dental problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u26	I agree with Mrs Somers. It is positive that it will be part of the Dentomut agreement. I hope that all the opinions and proposed measures will be taken on board. We'll follow up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u27	Mrs. Van Hoof is absent. Mrs. Hufkens is sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u28	Madam Secretary, in September, the media reported a case of a family whose daughter suffers from anorexia. At that time, a number of remarkable actions were requested and constructive proposals were made. Among other things, it is asked to ban certain websites, to restrict misleading advertising, to recognise malnutrition as an occupational disease in models, to bring more nuanced messages about nutrition and not to introduce fat tax. You immediately responded that you are not in a position to ban foreign websites. However, you can issue regulations against misleading advertising. In fact, a bill has been tabled in committee by Mrs Matz to regulate advertising in which photographs or images of bodies are modified with image editing programmes. Madam Secretary, anorexia is a serious condition. Unless I have not read it correctly, there is nothing about it in the guide to mental health care for children and young people. A passage should certainly be devoted to this. Firstly, should there not be more attention, including in mental health care, to children and young people who are sensitive to anorexia nervosa? Secondly, do you support Mrs. Matz's proposal? Thirdly, do you think it is a good idea to regard malnutrition in models as an occupational disease? Fourthly, what is your position on the proposals put forward in the media, especially with regard to nuanced messages on nutrition in institutions and schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u29	Madam President, the answer is rather extensive, because it also answers the questions of Mrs Hufkens and Mrs Van Hoof. It could be delivered to them. Like Mrs Dedry and the other two members of the committee, I share the concern about the health risks posed by anorexia nervosa. It pays to improve the provision of mental health care for children and young people with mental problems, as half of the mental health problems start before the age of 14 years. Prevention and early detection of problems will play a role. It is not just the specialised organisations, such as mental health centres or psychiatric hospitals, that can play a role in developing a prevention policy. In particular, organisations and actors close to the world of life of these children and young people should be encouraged to do so. I am thinking of schools, sports and leisure clubs, as well as the general practitioner. They can play an important role in leading young people to the appropriate provision of assistance and thus to the publication of that offer. The new policy for children and young people, the lines of which I have proposed, and which are being worked hard on their roll-out in the field, is precisely the continuity of care. Aid organisations will now learn to cooperate more easily and better so that children and young people can be better helped. That is why I keep talking about the networks of actors. I have freed up the necessary additional resources to help children and young people with psychological difficulties better and faster. The resources are a matter, but the policy must be implemented on the ground. All relevant organisations and actors from the different sectors and all relevant authorities will continue to make the additional joint effort. We've come a long way. This really takes some time and a lot of effort on the ground. Why aren't anorexia or other specific pathologies specifically mentioned in the explanatory notes on mental health care for children and adolescents? It is a question of integrating and integrating the new mental health policy for children and young people. It is integral, because it targets all children and young people with mental or psychiatric problems and their context, including young people aged 16 to 23. It is integrated because it includes all services, facilities and initiatives that take the mental health of children and young people to heart. So we don't want to think in boxes anymore; we want integrated care. In most cases, the difficulties faced by young people are multifactorial. One can't just deal with a case alone. The bill amending the Code of Economic Law relating to the regulation of advertising using photographs or images of bodies modified with an image editing camera actually exceeds my powers as Minister of Health and Social Affairs. So I don't have a handle on that. In Belgium and abroad, initiatives were taken by parliaments and governments to combat psychosocial risk factors for anorexia. Think of the code of conduct to combat anorexia in models. However, measuring the influence of the code of conduct in the media and the behaviour of the various actors is a competence of the Communities and Regions. We must therefore leave that to them. As regards the question of the recognition of malnutrition as an occupational disease in models, assuming that they are workers, there is already a system for obtaining compensation for diseases not assessed as recognised occupational diseases, the open system. To claim this, a disease must be seen as a direct consequence of the profession. So far, no such applications have been received by the Occupational Diseases Fund. I would just like to point out the following. You are talking about models, but in certain sports disciplines, ballet and dance, anorexia is also a problem. It is indeed very important that young people learn about a balanced diet in a nuanced and relaxed way, not only at school, but also outside. Sensitisation and prevention are within the competence of the Communities. However, the government is one of the many actors that can play a role. For the prevention of eating disorders, learning to accept oneself and one's own body and the changes in the body during puberty may be the most important thing. Anorexia often develops during puberty, when girls develop more feminine forms and the body begins to behave differently. Usually there is also a link with a high degree of perfectionism and some unrealistic expectations. Anorexia must certainly be approached multidisciplinaryly. The social media and the imagery around models, which are photographed on the covers of magazines, where a few centimeters and each visible roll can be easily embellished, play a role. What is reality and what is the image displayed? In that respect, I sometimes go too far and participate in actions on healthy nutrition at school and around books on healthy nutrition. I just started another one at the Book Fair, I cook healthy for my child. This concerns both the avoidance of anorexia and the prevention of obesity. I am a little out of line there, because I am already a little bit in the Community's field. It is for the good cause, and I assume that I am not blamed for it. We must all continue to play our part in the collective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u30	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. It is clear from your reply that you are concerned about the problem and that you are convinced that something needs to be done, together with the Länder. The only question you have not answered is that of advertising regulation. Maybe you can do a little more on that. That's not entirely out of your jurisdiction, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u31	These are often foreign websites. I want to do what I can, but I'm limited by my mandate. Some foreign websites are a problem. I cannot do anything about this myself, within my competence and within Belgian legislation. That needs to be addressed internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u32	Madam President, Minister, there have recently been several sprays for sale in a number of pharmacies that would help against grief and abandonment anxiety, against low self-confidence and bed-wetting, against fear of darkness and nightmares and against anger and irritability. The sprays are marketed by the Brussels company Fear Hunters under the name aromaKids and are intended for children from three years of age. They must be applied to the pillow or stuffed animal before bedtime and cost 13 euros for a bottle or 25 euros for a bottle with a wonderful stuffed animal, according to the advertising. Allow me to be sceptical about this. I'm not alone in that. The pharmacists' association APB also regrets that pharmacies lend themselves to selling such products. If the operation of a product is not scientifically proven, it may not be sold, according to APB. Professional specialists and psychologists are also standing on their backs. Some call it pure nonsense and pure quacking, others think it doesn't benefit but it doesn't harm either, but they would never pay for it. What worries me most is that psychological problems of children are trivialized in this way and reduced to a pressure on a spray bottle. It also deprives parents of their responsibility to find an adequate solution to their children's problems. It gives rise to the illusion that psychological intervention is not necessary. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on the sale of aromaKids in pharmacies? Do you know of any scientific research? Can you take measures against the distribution of this product in pharmacies? If so, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to the consumer association Test-Achats, certain products such as Aromakid sprays, supposed to appease children's anxieties, or TickLess, supposed to remove ticks and fleas, would be sold in pharmacies when their effectiveness has never been scientifically substantiated. In addition, according to this information, other health products, whose efficacy is questioned and which may prove dangerous, also appear in the shelves of pharmacists. In this regard, it refers to thinning pills that inflate in the stomach and give a feeling of satiety and whose equivalents have already caused obstructions of the esophagus, asphyxias and even deaths. Madam Minister, you will agree that this situation poses problems both ethically and at the level of consumer protection. How do you explain that products that have never been proven to be effective and that may prove dangerous can be offered for sale in our pharmacies? Are you considering taking steps to put an end to these practices? If so, which ones? Is consultation with the Order of Pharmacists on the agenda to examine this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u34	Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Senesael, like you, I have noticed the press coverage and I have questions about these products and all the qualities attributed to them. The indications in these sprays indicate that they may be considered a medicinal product. I have asked for an opinion from the FAGG Joint Committee, which is responsible for answering the question of whether these sprays should indeed be considered a medicinal product, given their indications. The existing legislation provides for several measures to avoid confusion between medicinal products and non-medicines. For example, medicinal products should not be offered in self-service and advertising of medicinal products is regulated. I also count on the pharmacist's advisory role as a healthcare practitioner to properly inform patients/customers about the possible effects of these sprays. The pharmacists are also bound by a deontological code, which instructs them to provide accurate information and to offer high quality products. The legislation on advertising for medicinal products is very clear. Advertising for unregistered medicines is prohibited and can be prosecuted. In conclusion, I am convinced that the current legal framework offers sufficient opportunities to ensure satisfactory quality for the patient. The Joint Committee's opinion will allow me to take a decision on the status of these products. My administration will, if necessary, take the necessary action. I also have every confidence in the Order of Pharmacists to oversee the ethical aspects of the profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u35	Madam Secretary, I am glad that you are also concerned about this. Maybe the regulation is enough at the moment to put a stop to it, but I felt that we should take a look at it in committee. After all, it almost balances on two legs. The boundary between medicine and non-drug and between what is and cannot be is flou. I therefore propose that we continue to pay attention to this matter, and I am particularly pleased that you have already paid attention to it, that you have asked the necessary questions and asked for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you. I am pleased to note that an opinion has been sought from the Agency's Joint Committee. I do not know whether deadlines have been set, but it would be happy, in any case, if this opinion could be delivered as quickly as possible. Indeed, if there is any danger, action should be taken as soon as possible. You add that the Order of Pharmacists must act within this framework. I don't know if you called him to arrange for a follow-up of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u37	Madam Minister, I asked a question about this in plenary. Minister Geens read your answer at the time, because you were abroad. I am asking you a follow-up question on this matter today. The answer stated that the FPC decided to increase the staff standard to take into account the nature of the influx. One would certainly learn from the experiences in Ghent at the start-up in Antwerp. I have the following questions. What exactly do you mean by raising staff standards? Is this increase temporary or structural and long-term, as the staff and patients themselves ask? That was not so clear in the answer. The tender dossier for Antwerp still contains the same standards for my knowledge. So that increase is not so clear. What is the advice of the follow-up committee? More generally, as a result of the opening of the second centre, I have the question as to what you will do to ensure that this is done flawlessly and to prevent abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u38	Mrs. Dedry, I've been checking with the follow-up committee. Complaint letters from interned persons entered in the FPC in Ghent are systematically forwarded to the follow-up committee, which she discusses with the operator of the FPC. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the follow-up committee does not rule on the merits of the complaint. Any interned person shall be free to bring proceedings before the competent judicial authorities, which may then rule on the facts. The operating agreement for the FPC Ghent provides that the follow-up committee shall meet whenever circumstances so require. In practice, there are two general meetings per year, supplemented by meetings on specific topics such as the content of the internal rules, the safety plan, complaints management and the ombud function, the flow of outages and consultation with healthcare inspection Flanders. The Consultative Committee has also made two visits. The operating agreement provides that in the event of a failure on the part of the operator which has not been remedied within the reasonable period laid down by the client, the client may terminate the agreement unilaterally. The contractual terms are respected by the FPC Gent operator. This is also recognised by Zorginspectie Vlaanderen. However, this institution is the first and for the time being the only one of its kind, which means that a number of adjustments have to be made in accordance with practice. As regards the disclosure of the audit report, this report will not be made public as long as the tendering procedure for the operation of the FPC Antwerp is still ongoing. I am still convinced that the staff standard for the care equipe, which is mentioned in the specifications and the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014, should be sufficient in the long term to ensure proper reception of the FPC service providers. Nevertheless, the FPC Ghent is currently experiencing specific difficulties with interned people who have been in prison for years. I've seen people there who spent 30 years in prison. They are therefore not used to receiving therapy and are also very reluctant to receive therapy. In order to minimise the effects of that detention damage, I investigate whether it is possible to use switching teams, which link interned persons in prison and the forensic care circuit, to accompany the transition from the prison to the FPC. This mobile team can also accompany the interned during the first week after his recording in the FPC. These switching teams were recently expanded. I also hear that the FPC Ghent operator has deployed additional staff with its own resources, albeit temporarily, in order to improve the initial reception of interns with detention damage. I indicated earlier that there are no other institutions such as the FPC Ghent for the time being. Forensic institutions abroad are also very different in terms of concept and assignment. It is therefore of the utmost importance that this operation be closely monitored and adjusted where necessary. For example, the profile of therapeutic assistants has been reviewed and these functions are only filled by persons with a care-related diploma. In addition, in-house training and case studies make the nurses and caregivers more familiar with the individuality of working with interned persons. The allocation of the operation of the FPC Antwerp can only be based on the conditions set out in the specifications and on the financial and qualitative assessment of the tenders submitted by the candidates. As you know, this allocation is also a shared competence with the Minister of Justice. So the question first came to him and then to me; it was answered on behalf of both of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u39	Madam Secretary, I absolutely do not want to fall into a well-nuke game. Again, I hear your concern. What you say about the switching teams and the mobile teams is interesting and positive, but if I understand correctly, it is the transition to and reintegration into society. That's not bad in itself, but it doesn't solve the problems in the FPC. However, I do hear a positive message about the profile of the therapeutic assistants, who are now health care professionals. You're also talking about education. All these small measures are positive. Nevertheless, I continue to have questions about the staffing standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u40	This is simply a question of the state of play, Madam Secretary. In spring, I asked you a question about the reimbursement of the costs of freezing eggs from young women who have to undergo chemotherapy or bridge a disease. At that time, you replied that the budget was available. I was very pleased about this, but that there was still a meeting to be held with the reproductive centres and with the College of Doctors for Reproductive Medicine. The timing was not quite clear at the time. What's the status? Is there any regulation in the process of reimbursement? Who is eligible for the refund? What are the criteria used?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u41	Mrs Jiroflée, the negotiations announced are currently under way. If I may, I will not go into detailed questions as long as those negotiations are ongoing. However, I would like to inform you that from the outset it was intended to provide funding primarily for oncology patients, whether they are men, women, boys or girls, including very young patients, who, through oncology treatment, are at risk of damaging their fertility in their later lives. If everything goes as expected, a concrete proposal will be submitted to the Insurance Committee in the coming months. When the proposal is adopted, it can enter into force quickly; it requires the signature of the centres concerned. It is therefore a matter to be discussed in advance with all the centres of reproductive medicine. This increases the chance that they will sign the agreement and meet it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u42	I am pleased, Madam Secretary, that you are working on it. I note that the timing is not quite clear yet. I propose that you ask a follow-up question on this in the first months of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u43	Madam Minister, the Psychotherapy Act came into force in principle on September 1st, but many questions remain unanswered and, moreover, in view of your general policy note, everything will not be settled this year, if I understand what was already mentioned. We'll get back to it. Given the inaccuracies that remain despite the exchanges and discussions that we have had in committee and in plenary on the work and the choice of terms used, the actors on the ground share with me many questions which are particularly difficult to give precise answers. I have therefore brought together a few questions, in particular concerning professionals such as social assistants accompanying psychiatric patients, therapists who belong to guidelines such as analytical guidance, attendants in mental health services, planning, medical home, etc. Should this mission of listening to these social workers, which may have therapeutic effects, be considered psychotherapy as defined in Article 68.2.1 § 1b (?): "Maintenance with the aim of alleviating the difficulties, conflicts and psychological disorders suffered by the patient"? Or should it be considered that the law prohibits the use of the term "psychotherapy" only when it is carried out by an unqualified professional, any other practice of speech remaining possible? A clear answer is essential because these workers are not under the supervision of a practitioner, as referred to in Articles 3 § 1, 68.1 and 68.2 and are therefore outside the psychological and scientific reference framework and/or have no recognized specific training in psychotherapy. This first question finally concerns the more precise definition of what psychotherapy is. A second area of questioning concerns the term "responsibility" when, within an interdisciplinary team, certain workers operate in a non-autonomous manner under the supervision of practitioners, as referred to in Articles 3 § 1, 68.1 and 68.2. How does responsibility relate to problems with a patient, complaints from the family or the patient himself? Is it institutional assurance that prevails and assures the independent practitioner and the non-self-governing practitioner as described in the Act? If so, should the institution contract supplementary insurance? Is the independent practitioner responsible for non-self-governing professionals? If so, should he take out supplementary insurance for that purpose? You should be aware that non-self-governing professionals are already contacted by insurance organizations and aware of this issue of liability. As regards the non-autonomous practice of certain psychotherapeutic acts under the supervision of a practitioner, it seems necessary to define more explicitly what these acts are and how the monitoring should be organised in practice within the teams. The answers provided do not allow these clarification requirements to be met. I would therefore like you to give us more details on this. At the level of sanctions, questions also remain. Article 122 of the Coordinated Act of 10 May 2015 on the health care professions provides for the application of disciplinary sanctions when there are persons who do not have the required diploma, who do not have a visa from the Medical Commission or who are not listed in the Order's table. Moreover, it is part of the law on psychotherapists (sections 62 to...) which, contrary to articles 68/1 and 68/2 of the law of 10 May 2015, says that no one can exercise psychotherapy if he is not the holder of the ad hoc approval. It would therefore be necessary for us to be made clear that section 122 of the Act of 10 May 2015 should be considered not applicable to the exercise of psychotherapy. With regard to psychotherapy training, in some cases it is specified that it should be given in a university institution or in a high school (Articles 11, § 3, § 4, c) 2° and § 5, c) 2° but in others this is not the case. I am thinking here of §4, (a) 2° and (b) 2°, and §5, subparagraph 2, (a) 2° and (b) 2°. These questions require precision. If they are not university or higher education institutes, do the institutions offering training in psychotherapy referred to in Article 11, § 4, (a) 2° and (b) 2°, § 5, paragraph 2, (a) 2° and (b) 2° include existing psychotherapy training institutes? Are they therefore recognised? Second, article 62/1, § 5, provides that practitioners who are not doctors, clinical psychologists, or orthopedagogues may nevertheless perform psychotherapy in a non-self-reliant manner, in this case under the supervision of a doctor, psychologist or orthopedagogue. Yet many services collaborate in the psychotherapeutic field with psychotherapists whose social status is that of self-employed – in other words, they work without any link of subordination. Can you confirm that this control exercised by another self-employed professional does not conflict with the absence of subordination under the Labour Act and the status of self-employed? In the transitional measures, Article 68/2/1, § 4, provides that, by way of derogation from paragraphs 2 and 4, the psychotherapy of persons other than the professionals referred to in Article 3, § 1, 68/1 and 68/2 may be exercised independently or independently. Paragraph 6 states that the King may also authorize other professional practitioners to exercise psychotherapy and establishes, where appropriate, the conditions under which they may exercise that discipline, which shall, at a minimum, relate to their preparatory training. For people who have been practicing psychotherapy for many years, what are the conditions and possibilities for promoting their practice when they do not have the basic diplomas required by this new law, but an indisputable and often recognized professional experience? Is it enough for them to continue practicing in the same way or do they have to remove the "psycho" prefix? Finally, the law does not specifically define psychotherapy. Knowing that federated entities have accreditations for outpatient care and accompaniment services and facilities, which also contain requirements in terms of the number and qualifications of staff, is there a risk of a conflict of jurisdiction between the federal and federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u44	Madam Minister, the reason for my question is the new figures on the excessive use of antidepressants, which we were able to read in the media a few weeks ago. In 2015, 1.2 million Belgians took an antidepressant at least once. This has increased the number of users of antidepressants by 16.5 percent in ten years. It is striking that the number of pills swallowed increased by more than 50 percent over the same period. The new figures of the RIZIV show. Fortunately, compared to 2014, there are only a few users more than the years before. According to the RIZIV, the stagnation is due to awareness campaigns in patients and doctors, which means that alternative treatments such as psychotherapy are more common. But that's exactly where the shoe's pinching. I do not need to remind you that we have some reservations about the law on psychotherapy. While more and more caregivers are needed in psychotherapy, their numbers are at risk of drastically reducing. On 1 September the new regulation was launched, whereby therapists who do not have a diploma in health care are no longer allowed to exercise the profession autonomously. We also do not hear anything about the reimbursement of treatment, except that it would be discussed. Madam Secretary, what are the transitional measures for non-autonomous psychotherapists? When do you plan the KB in connection with the assistant professions? How will you proceed? Is there any further consultation with the sector? Is there any discussion on the refund? With who? What are the results of the discussions? Can you put forward a timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u45	Madam Minister, I can be brief; a lot has already been said. I would like to hear from you the state of play regarding the implementation of the law of June 2016. Quite specifically, what progress has been made with the creation of the Federal Council for the Mental Health Care professions, which is a key element in the implementation of the law? What is the status of the supporting GGZ profession? If we are to be able to offer the bachelors a perspective, there must be a legal framework by the next academic year 2017-2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u46	Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Muylle, your questions are quite detailed. I'm gonna have to give you a long answer. The law you refer to recognizes, on the one hand, two mental health professions - clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues - by specifying certain sections of the Law on the Exercise of Health Professions (LEPSS) and, on the other hand, regulates the practice of psychotherapy. It does not recognize and specify who can be called a psychotherapist in the legislation on the exercise of health professions, apart from the usurpation of a protected professional title, which cannot be the case here, since this title is not protected. The boundary between legal exercise and illegal exercise is mainly based on how the benefit is presented to the patient. Psychotherapy is used illegally when the term is used in the patient's relationship or when the patient is believed to improve his or her mental health or to help him or her heal from a mental pathology when the qualifying conditions or broad legal rights measures are not met. Of course, all these kinds of therapists, thanks to serious listening to people in difficulty, bring them a benefit or even cause an improvement in their mental health. They are social workers and welcoming people in some centres, volunteers, etc. It is good for the population that it can be listened to in certain difficulties. But these professionals cannot make patients believe that they are practicing psychotherapy with them, and that this can replace the benefits of a true health professional. The questions of responsibility applied to the exercise of a profession are very complex. There are basic rules on criminal and civil liability. The rules on labour law, as well as the jurisprudence and decision of a judge according to the circumstances, also apply. You're asking what would happen in case of a problem. One problem is not the other. The circumstances and persons involved will be analysed by the judge. It is therefore difficult to answer this kind of question in a very precise way. However, there are some basic rules that can still be recalled, depending on your sub-questions. First, employers are civilly responsible for their employees. They must ensure that this is done, and this principle does not depend on the degree of autonomy of the employee. Second, all employers are subject to civil liability for their employees. The new law on mental health professions and psychotherapy has not changed that. A professional supervising another assumes part of the responsibility for psychotherapy. The supervisor is responsible and must ensure that the indication of therapy has been established, that the therapy is applied and that it produces the expected effects. If not, the supervisor will discuss with the performer to improve therapy or no longer authorize the application of this therapy. The person performing the therapy is responsible for the way the therapy is applied. In addition, when exercising a profession that has authority over others, it may be useful to discuss it with its insurer in order to verify the coverage of this type of risk in the insurance contract. We have been unable to go into such details in the preparatory work for the drafting of the law or in the parliamentary debate. Only experts, representatives, professionals and practitioners in the field can answer these questions. This is why there is a provision that allows the Minister to set out more details but always on the advice of the Federal Mental Health Council. On several occasions, I have emphasized the importance of this Federal Mental Health Council. It will therefore be necessary to wait for the Committee to discuss such questions before answering them. Since psychotherapy is defined as a form of treatment and cannot be exercised by clinician physicians, psychologists and orthopedagogues, in addition to persons exempted by transitional measures and acquired rights, persons who do not hold a licence for one of these professions and who do not comply with transitional measures and acquired rights may, in accordance with section 122 of SARASS, be prosecuted for illegal exercise of medicine. Medicine is, among other things, offering treatment to a patient. Regardless of the title used to do so or the name given to the treatment. The spirit of the law is to have a broad recognition of acquired rights. It can therefore be assumed that everything that existed and is no longer specified remains valid. Again, in the future, the Federal Council, with the help of experts and practitioners, will be more specifically involved in the organisation of education. In the meantime, these elements remain broad and interpretable with respect for acquired rights. This is not the first time that our legislation has used the concept of supervision or supervision of one health professional towards another. This is, for example, the case of doctors working with paramedics or entrusting certain acts to nurses. This does not mean that they are superiors. In a hospital, in the operating room, a surgeon with an independent status may be assisted by a nurse who will operate under his supervision. But the Hospitals Act makes it clear that this nurse is under the hierarchical responsibility of the head of the nursing department. There are many examples of this type. It seems to me that the transitional measures and the acquired rights are so broad that I do not see which practitioner, with long experience, would not be included in the law. Some in this case, but with relatively low training, now realize that they will have to work under supervision. It seems to me that it is a good thing if, from time to time, another competent professional analyses the work of these people. This will ensure the patient's safety and could be rewarding for both practitioners. To those who are tempted to play the words by removing the prefix "psycho" to "therapy" I recall that our legislation provides criminal penalties for those who make unlawful use of the titles or who present their activities as part of a health practice whose conditions they do not meet. If each entity remains within its constitutional powers, I do not see a risk of conflict of jurisdiction. If one of the federated entities has a doubt about the limits or if it wants to know the opinions of others on how to interpret or apply certain concepts of the law, I think the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health is a good place to exchange views. The transitional measures laid down by law entered into force on 1 September. Those who do not have a WUG diploma may continue to provide the psychotherapy subject to at least a Bachelor's degree under supervision. We all know what that supervision means. This does not necessarily have to be physical, but can also involve broad consultation. For this purpose, agreements have been made with those who can exercise supervision, so that the persons concerned can comply with the legal requirements, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual. I have always made it clear that the law, but above all its implementation, is essential to start the discussion on a high-quality reimbursement of mental health care. I am therefore currently working on the creation of the Federal Council for mental health professions. The discussions on reimbursement are an important task for the Federal Council. The establishment of a list of mental health support professions is only possible when the Federal Council has been established and can give an opinion on it. It goes without saying that this advice will also provide a vision of their powers and position vis-à-vis other healthcare professionals, first and foremost the clinical psychologist, the clinical orthopedagogue and the psychiatrist. The Law of 10 May 2015 on the Exercise of Health Care Professions (LEPSS) defines the different professions that are recognized as health care professions. As you have repeatedly requested a list of health care professions, I will provide you with a list of health care professions included in the SARASS in a moment. These professional qualifications have the acquired right to exercise psychotherapy in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. However, individuals with a SARASS designation whose professional qualifications are below the bachelor's level can only exercise psychotherapy if they already hold the SARASS designation as of September 1, 2016. Students are not included in this case. I am not in a position to provide you with a list of all non-SARESS securities that may benefit from the rights acquired under section 68 § 5 of SARASS. It does not fall within my competence, but rather falls within the competence of the Community Minister for Education. This is, in any case, all professional qualifications obtained after a minimum bachelor's level training. The list will be sent to you, Mrs Gerkens, so as not to waste time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u47	It will be added to the question and answer report. Thank you for your answer, which provides some clarification, but some questions remain outstanding. Of course, the law does not define who can be a psychotherapist since the title is not protected, but instead the law speaks of psychotherapy, the use of the term and those who claim to make it or not. What I was questioning was the definition of psychotherapy, as enshrined in the law: "Maintenance in order to alleviate difficulties, conflicts, psychological disorders suffered by the patient". This definition is broad, and compared to it, it will be difficult for social workers to determine whether their maintenance is not therapeutic or has no therapeutic value. How do you refer to a patient who could say "I've been made to believe that", when sometimes the person is in mental health difficulties? It is important to pay more attention in the definition of psychotherapy so as to distinguish a psychotherapeutic interview from an interview related to listening or support. The second element concerns the relationship, supervision, control of an independent practitioner vis-à-vis a non-autonomous practitioner, supervision and responsibility. In your answer, the shadow zones persist. There are already health professionals who work on prescription, on order, on mission, given by other professionals. In general, the self-employed also has the opportunity to work independently and, at times, is in complementarity with another worker, who can instruct him. Here, it is of a relationship of another nature that is proposed. What does this responsibility really consist of? You're saying that rules are already in place. The employer will have to be responsible. The originator, the "self-governing" will therefore be responsible for the "non-autonomous" "psy". But what type of insurance will be taken? Who should take it? How? What will be the cost of these insurances? And what will be the organization of the teams, who often depend on a level of authority other than the federal government? Here I come back to my final question just now, concerning your statement that it is sufficient for the Communities to highlight their questions at an interdepartmental conference. This will inevitably have an impact on the organisation of these services, on the costs of insurance and organisation. In your answer, you did not bring in any element that would allow you to have a frame that allows each one to be placed in relation to the others. The fact that you do not recognize the title of psychotherapist forces you to do language exercises at all times by differentiating exercise from psychotherapy and exercise as a psychotherapist. There is a real risk of problems later, given these confusions between the terms. Failure to properly define what psychotherapy is and not to recognize a title for those who exercise it will cause confusion between the actors. In conclusion, your answer and the remarks I have just made, I will table a motion. I don't know if I should read it in detail. My motion asks the government to clarify the definition of psychotherapy, so that the psychotherapeutic vocation is clarified in relation to the listening missions of other stakeholders; to define clearly what psychotherapeutic acts can be performed by non-self-governing practitioners; to clarify in practical terms the supervision of a non-self-governing practitioner, the responsibility of the self-governing psychotherapist and the services and institutions, the requirements for insurance coverage in the head of practitioners and institutions, and to clarify that such supervision cannot be regarded as a link of subordination. You did it in the question. I think that is also included in the provisions of the law. A law "miscellaneous provisions" is on the agenda. This could be an opportunity to clarify this. A fourth request is to clarify how existing psychotherapeutic training institutes, which are neither universities nor high schools, will be recognised as institutions offering specific psychotherapy training - you say you wait for the Federal Council to give guidance also in this area, but this is really lacking before the law comes into force - to clarify how professionals, who have long practical psychotherapeutic experience without having had the preparatory training provided for in paragraph 6 of Article 68.2.1, can make use of this experience during the transitional period; to clarify whether Article 122 of the Law of 10 May 2015 is applicable to the exercise of psychotherapy; to verify the risks of conflict of interest between federal and federated entities with regard to the requirements in terms of qualification, organisation of staff in mental health services and institutions. I invite you to engage in discussion and dialogue with federal entities rather than wait for them to question you if they have any questions because I think the problems will actually arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but I maintain my claim that, just when more caregivers are needed in psychotherapy, they are in danger of drastically reducing their numbers. When it comes to reimbursement of treatment, we still have a very long way to go, Madam Secretary. When I hear you like this, I wonder whether you will still be able to do something in that area in this legislature. Then I'm talking specifically about the refunds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u49	That depends on how long you think this legislature will last. As far as I know, we still have three years to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u50	Madam Secretary, I'm serious. I'm counting on those three years, too, but when I hear what else has to happen...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u51	If you hope from the opposition that the government will fall in the next week, it will be difficult, but we still have three years to go, Mrs Jiroflée. I'm optimistic. I hope you are, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u52	I am a very great realist, Madam Secretary. Honestly, I don't think the government will fall, no matter what I fantasize about in my wildest dreams.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u53	The supporting GGZ profession must, of course, fit in with the global exercise that is now taking place in the context of the amendment of the GGZ no. Seventy-eight is being made. That's the right slope. You referred to the importance of the Federal Council. When do you expect the Federal Council to be convened? I do not think I have heard that in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u54	We are working as quickly as possible, but that is a very great work. There's a lot of hard work and I won't put a deadline on it. I would say that the work will continue without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u55	I hope that this will not be a problem for the coming into force of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u56	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government 1. to clarify the definition of psychotherapy so that the psychotherapeutic vocation is specified in relation to the missions of listening to other stakeholders; 2. clearly define what psychotherapeutic acts can be carried out by non-self-governing practitioners; 3. to specify in concrete terms: (a) supervision of a non-self-governing practitioner, (b) the responsibility of the self-employed psychotherapist and the services and institutions; (c) the requirements for insurance subscription in the head of practitioners and institutions, (d) that such supervision cannot be regarded as a subordination link by self-employed practitioners; 4. to specify how existing psychotherapeutic training institutes which are neither university nor high school will be recognised as institutions offering specific training in psychotherapy; 5. to clarify how professionals with long practical psychotherapeutic experience without having the preparatory trainings of Article 68/2/1 § 6 can make use of this experience during the transitional period; 6. to clarify whether Article 122 of the Law of 10 May 2015 – Care Professions – is applicable to the exercise of psychotherapy; 7. to verify the risks of conflicts of interest between federal and federated jurisdictions with respect to the qualification and organization requirements of staff in mental health services and institutions." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government 1. define 'psychotherapy' so that its implementation would be clarified in relation to the listening mission of other actors; 2. provide a clear definition of the psychotherapeutic benefits in kind which may be provided by non-autonomous practitioners; 3. define in concrete terms the following matters: (a) the supervision of a non-autonomous practicer; (b) the liability of the autonomous psychotherapists, the services and the institutions thereby; (c) the requirements relating to the taking-up of insurance by the practitioners and institutions; (d) the fact that such supervision will not be regarded as a subordinate employment for practitioners with an independent status; 4. clarify how the existing psychotherapists training institutions, which are neither universities nor colleges, will be recognised as providing specific training in psychotherapy; 5. to clarify how practitioners with years of practical experience in psychotherapy who have not completed the preparatory training provided for in Article 68/2/1 (6) can allow that experience to apply during the transitional period; 6. clarify whether or not Article 122 of the Law of 10 May 2015 on the practice of healthcare professions applies to the practice of psychotherapy; 7. to identify the risks of conflicts of interest between the federal powers and those of the sub-areas with regard to the requirements of professional competence and organisation." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Ine Somers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Ine Somers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u57	Minister can stay until 12:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u58	Madam President, Minister, last week we discussed tobacco in detail and I can therefore be very brief. Part of my question is dated. You have already answered a number of questions and you have already taken a clear position in committee on this matter. This question is mainly about young people. Figures show that young people smoke less, so there is a partial positive trend, albeit only for boys, because the girls are catching up in a bad way. You have already replied on neutral packages, as well as on the government's consensus on a total ban on advertising. I shall therefore confine myself to the two remaining questions. I have already given them a tip on the committee. I would like to know your personal opinion on making tobacco products less visible in windows. In a number of countries, including the UK, tobacco products are in a closed box, thus reducing their visibility and therefore their attractiveness and increasing the difficulty of getting them. With this, we could think of restricting sales outlets and selling tobacco products only in specialised shops, such as tobacco shops and newspaper shops. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u59	Madam President, I will not repeat last week's discussion. There is indeed a positive trend, a decline in tobacco consumption among young people. Fewer and fewer young people, especially boys, start smoking. This is a result of the approach, with various aspects, of the problem of tobacco consumption, with the possible consequences for public health. With the federal part of the tobacco plan, we want to strengthen this dynamic. However, it does not include any measure relating to the number of points of sale. However, the price of tobacco, in particular the price of rolling tobacco, is being taken into account. The price increase has a greater impact on young people precisely because of their lower purchasing power. They usually start smoking without the knowledge of their parents, so they have to buy their cigarettes with their allowance money. The Eurobarometer also indicated that in Belgium three-quarters of smokers start smoking before the age of eighteen, including a quarter before the age of fifteen. We must indeed try to make it clear to young people in the past what the consequences of tobacco consumption can be. With regard to neutral packages, the government has decided to evaluate the experiences of the neighbouring countries. The services were instructed to prepare for the implementation of that measure. This requires consultation with all the competent departments of the FPS Finance, the FPS Economy, the FPS Justice and the FPS Foreign Affairs Committee in order to proceed in a coherent manner before the implementation of such a measure can take place. It is also evident that the services maintain very close contact with their French, English and Irish colleagues in order to make use of their experience and thus take into account the initial impact studies on the introduction of the neutral package in those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u60	Madam Minister, you did not reply to the proposal to make tobacco products less visible, as in the United Kingdom, by offering them in closed cabinets in shops. This has clearly had an effect there, especially in young people. In committee, we have already talked about making tobacco more expensive. I am glad that you say that it will indeed help, especially in the case of young people, but it must be a sensitive increase the first time. Especially when it comes to not showing up, I'm still hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u61	Madam President, the minister, through intensive research, the radiation therapy of sending rays into the patient's body to kill cancer cells has proved its effectiveness. It also appears to have the advantage of significantly reducing the risk of subsequent side effects on patients who are being treated. However, according to information provided by the Belgian Radiation Oncology Awareness and Visibility Organization (ASBL Bravo), radiotherapy would be threatened by an annual budget reduction of €5 million, while the overall annual budget of €115 million for approximately 35,000 interventions is already extremely limited, according to experts in this field. According to the co-chair of Bravo, such a measure could lead several oncological centres or treating physicians to opt for a return to older techniques that cause more side effects, are less effective for the patient and increase both the patient's bill and that of INAMI. Minister, do you confirm this information on the annual cut of EUR 5 million that would have been decided in the budget for radiotherapy? How can we justify it? How do you respond to concerns raised by the members of the NBA Bravo regarding this budget reduction? Is there a concern that the treatments proposed then lead to more side effects and therefore additional costs for patients? Finally, the ASBL also advocates favouring a multidisciplinary approach to treatment in order to best treat patients and avoid additional costs. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u62	Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. I can confirm that discussions are currently under way within the INAMI bodies on the savings to be achieved in the health care sector. A task force has set up leads in order to achieve a savings of several million in different sectors. Among the concrete projects, there is a proposal to save €5 million in the radiotherapy sector pending a thorough revision of the nomenclature concerned. This update of the nomenclature will include, inter alia, an adjustment of the tariffs for certain services but also the introduction of new services. We are aware of the importance of radiation therapy to treat oncological patients and of the rapid evolution of these techniques that allow for more accurate irradiating of tumours and treating more indications than in the past. We have heard the concerns of the BLSO Bravo, but I can assure you that we do not intend to question good quality irradiation or impose additional costs on patients in the future. A multidisciplinary approach to care is one of the pillars of oncological care programmes in Belgium. Multidisciplinary oncological consultations play an important role in the patient's choice of treatment, including radiotherapy. Continuing to optimize oncological care within a multidisciplinary framework remains one of our main objectives. In view of the changing possibilities for radiation therapy, it is really necessary to revise the nomenclature, first of all because new benefits have to be introduced, but also because some benefits are somewhat dated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u63	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your answers, which call for three thoughts on my part. First of all, let us be positive: you are reassuring about the concerns of the ASBL Bravo. You're not going to question all the treatments and radiations of good quality. There's no need to worry about that. All I'm asking is to believe you. On the other hand, I am still concerned that you will confirm your proposal to save $5 million in the sector. Even if, in the third point, you say that the nomenclature needs to be reviewed in the light of developments so that it is as efficient as possible. For my part, I believe that these objectives are difficult to reconcile with the planned economy of 5 million. We will therefore see how this dossier will evolve, depending on this new nomenclature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u64	Madam Secretary, this is a question I shall return to. I've set them before, on February 24th. It's about the commercial on sperm donation. A group of advertisers dealt with it quite remarkably at that time. They were talking about a shortage of creative talents in our country and they were going to solve that by going to the sperm bank in Brussels. They made a movie about that because they wanted as many creative babies as possible. As a close, there was a general call for donation. No matter how well meant, that was of course completely beside it. I think we can agree on that. It was creative, one can say that, but it was a bit more ethical. I think it's a lot more sensitive to people than they realized. However, the most important thing was that UZ Brussels also actively participated in the film. That is, of course, the limits of the law. Today, it is prohibited by law that fertility centres use advertising to actively recruit donors. Don't get me wrong, I think that in the future, especially in the event of a legislative change, we will have to take initiatives to make that possible. This may not apply to the centres themselves, but it may be possible to focus more actively on finding sufficient donors. Anyway, that's another story. In your answer to my previous question, you said that it was up to the FAGG to assess to what extent the film could or could not be considered admissible and to what extent it complied with the legal conditions. I believe that this is actually true. Madam Secretary, it's been a while now. Hence my question as to what the FAGG's opinion was on this video. Was there permission or not? Has there been any follow-up? Was there at least a clear signal that this was a bridge too far? What other steps have been taken? You also indicated at that time that it might be the task of the Public Health Office to look within the current legislative framework for other methods to address the issue of game donation in a respectful way. Have you already taken steps to do this or are you waiting for a legislative change with all the initiatives that might result from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u65	Mrs Van Peel, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has indeed kept the film in the light of current legislation. On the basis of this analysis, therefore, a PV was produced which was delivered to the public prosecutor in accordance with the legal procedure. It is clear, therefore, that there has been too little progress. We are in favour of creativity, but we must comply with the legislation in force. Given the secret of the criminal investigation that will follow, I cannot provide you with any further information. It is indeed a task of the FPS Public Health to deal with the problem of Game Donation in a respectful manner. They are discussing this. I'm waiting for their proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I believe that the FAGG has in any case correctly considered that a report should be drawn up. We shall indeed wait and see. It's not up to you to discuss matters in the investigation. So this is being prosecuted. We will continue the debate on the proposal following the discussions in the Public Health Office in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u67	Madam President, Madam Minister, I learned from a number of sources that a Belgian hospital would spontaneously offer wishing parents the choice of sex before returning embryos. If I'm right, this is not legal. Only if there is a gender-related condition is allowed. Personally I would have difficulty with it, should it be allowed, because that is a path of which one knows the beginning, but certainly not the end. Madam Secretary, did you know that this is happening? Could you have known about it? Is it being investigated? Checks should be carried out by the FAGG, but how do they happen? Has the FAGG established any violations during its checks? If so, what are the consequences? Is there gonna be a sanction? I find this a little frightening, if it happens this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, the FAGG is indeed responsible for the application and control of certain articles of the Law of 6 July 2007 on the medically assisted reproduction and the destination of the remaining embryos and gametes. Articles 23 (2) and 52 (2) provide for the prohibition of the donation of other embryos and gametes for the purpose of gender selection, with the exception of the selection for the prevention of sex-related diseases. The FAGG has been carrying out checks and inspections in fertility centres since 2010. No infringements of these articles have been detected so far. Any infringement must be notified immediately by the FAGG to the public prosecutor because there is a criminal sanction for the violation of the provisions of the Law of 6 July 2007. If there is a story going around somewhere, I suggest that this be transferred to the FAGG so that they can carry out a check on the facts. It's against the law. I believe that we have made the right ethical choice. We cannot go along with the story of gender selection. That is not the intention of everything that happens in the field of medically assisted reproduction. The intention is to give children to people who cannot have children in a natural way. The aim is also to exclude hereditary diseases and prevent people from passing them on. I believe that we should not go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u69	Thank you, Madam Secretary. On the ethical level, we are following exactly the same line. I also believe that we should not go down this path. The difficult thing about such matters is, of course, that they are very difficult to control. It is seen that the recipient is happy with the choice, and the sector can do whatever it wants at that point in time. So it's hard to control. I do believe, like you, that such stories should be reported to the FAGG and that the FAGG would then be obliged to investigate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u70	Question No 13859 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u71	Madam Minister, I have already asked you several questions about the reimbursement arrangements for the NIPT. Meanwhile, there is a new evolution: most mutualities, except for one, already pay the NIPT back for their members. The test is then carried out in the regular labs, so not the special labs under article 33. I have a few questions about this. How does the practice go, now that the NIPT is carried out in regular labs? Are there any problems in the field under the current procedure that would indicate that the reservation of the NIPT to the genetic centres represents added value for the patient or the treating physician? What do you think? Do you think that the current NIPT practice can be continued, so that the test can be carried out by the regular labs? Do you agree that the NIPT is actually a replacement of the serum test or do you think that there are certain differences, which should make the test reserved for the genetics centres? If the NIPT were to be reserved for the labs under article 33, would you confirm that they would also charge a consult by default? That's clearly on their website. Are you aware of this and how do you feel about it? What is the additional cost per test in that case? Is this cost fully reflected on the genetics budget, which apparently already receives an additional 2 million from the clinical biology budget, or will it be recovered from the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u72	Mrs Van Camp, the NIPT tests are indeed an important one. They investigate fetally freely circulating DNA and are currently offered by a number of approved human inheritance centres, by other hospital laboratories and also by private labs. Tests carried out by centres of human inheritance are, of course, always the subject of existing quality systems. I believe that there should be sound quality guarantees for the technological execution and interpretation of the test and that these guarantees should form part of the whole of the conditions for reimbursement. We also see all kinds of weird tests offered cheaply, but where there is a danger of false positive and false negative results with all the psychological consequences for the couple and discussions that result. For me, it is very important that the test is qualitative and reliable, rather than considerations as to whether or not the test can be carried out outside the centres of human inheritance. My position is as follows. NIPT should be seen as a whole of prenatal examinations and the decisions proposed in stages to the pregnant woman. As far as reimbursement is concerned, there are essentially different slopes, always provided that the quality of the test is regulated and proven. A first track is the integral fee for the test and the genetic consultation in case there is an abnormal finding. It is, of course, important to get a genetic consultation if something abnormal is manifesting in the test. If the test is normal and states that there is no trisomy, then there should be no major genetic consultation, because then the pregnancy goes on completely and the woman or couple can rest assured. A second path is the possibility of a system of reimbursement whereby the test and the genetic consultation are split up. In this context, I would like to say that my services are currently finalising the terms of recognition of the clinical geneticist as a special professional title for doctors. It seems clear to me that interpretation and counselling in the event of harmful anomalies of the test result are reserved for the new group of specialists. So in the first run we keep the link where the test and genetic counseling always have to be done in the same place, knowing that genetic counseling is only important if the test gives a different result. In the second piste we can disconnect the test and make it accessible to women wherever they are, but with the understanding that in the event of a different result a genetic counseling will be done by someone with the necessary knowledge. It is therefore important to look for other possible associated deviations, so that the couple or the person concerned can also provide single mothers with the necessary information to enable them to make important decisions. Those two slopes are on the table. I want all women in our country to have access to the NIPT in the same way. That test shouldn't just be for the happy few, but it should be for all women. We all know the benefits. It's a more precise test. It can avoid a whole series of invasive interventions and hence the risk of miscarriage. I think it would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I fully support you in that view. I agree that quality guarantees can be imposed. They also exist for labs and tests. In this way the distinction is also made as to which laboratories can perform which tests. Your piste to disconnect the genetic consultation and only to refer it to specialised centres in case of a derogation seems very logical to me. I fully support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u74	Madam Chair, my next meeting starts at 12:30 and I do not want to be too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-16-54-commissie-ic536x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore completing our work here.
