ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in the current situation we are concerned about, we cannot turn our eyes away from the conflict in Yemen. Since the 30th session of the UN Human Rights Council, Amnesty International has conducted research on violations committed in the context of this conflict. Amnesty thus reportedly discovered that the Saudi-led coalition continued to commit violations of international humanitarian law. Moreover, it would appear that in this conflict munitions were used which do not allow for precise firing, thus striking without discrimination. Their use is prohibited by customary international humanitarian law. Minister, have you been able to read this Amnesty report? What follow-up can Belgian and European diplomats give if these unacceptable violations of international law are confirmed? Do you intend to call on all parties to the conflict to fully respect the appropriate provisions of international law in the planning and execution of any military operation, to ensure that civilians and civilian objects are not targeted and to put an end to indiscriminate and disproportionate attacks? More broadly, what is the development of this conflict on which, it must be acknowledged, it is extremely difficult to obtain information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u2	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, my services have been in contact with the representative of Amnesty International, particularly regarding the dramatic humanitarian situation and violations of humanitarian law in Yemen. The increasingly worrying presence of terrorist groups such as Daesh and al-Qaida and the terrible terrorist attack in Aden on 23 May, which claimed several dozen lives, also remind us, if necessary, of the seriousness of the situation. We are also following closely the efforts of the international community to find a negotiated way out of this conflict and to alleviate the suffering of the civilian population. On 5 April, my services received the special envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General for Yemen, Sheikh Ahmed. It sees a triple role for the European Union and its Member States. First, support for the political process by encouraging regional powers to work together to end violence. Secondly, the European Union plays and must continue to play a key role in the humanitarian effort to relieve the Yemeni population. Thirdly, the European Union will be called upon to contribute to the future reconstruction of the country. Belgium supports the efforts of Sheikh Ahmed, who is doing remarkable work to pacify Yemen. We call on the belligerents and all parties involved to respect international humanitarian law and to continue without delay the talks in order to stop the violence, improve the humanitarian situation of the population and return to a political solution to the conflict. Belgium participates in the humanitarian effort through international organizations, through contributions to the ICRC, the Central Emergency Response Fund managed by OCHA and the Immediate Response Account, a flexible World Food Programme fund. It is one of the largest donors of this fund, which provides food aid in crisis situations. As you said, information about the situation on the spot is difficult to obtain. A national ceasefire began on 10 April and initially appeared to be relatively well respected outside the city of Taiz. The ceasefire was followed on 20 April by negotiations in Kuwait under the auspices of the United Nations between the various parties to the conflict. The negotiations are difficult but they have just resumed this Monday, 23 May, after a break of almost a week. The international community therefore remains moderately optimistic, since both sides seem to want to find a solution to the current military blockade. We hope, therefore, that these talks will be the first step towards an end to the crisis. We will continue to encourage stakeholders to do so and to monitor the situation closely. I have had the opportunity, in a number of bilateral contacts with regional actors, to stress these various aspects, which are also stressed by the United Nations. Finally, in terms of human rights violations, the first thing to do is to be able to identify concrete facts that have taken place in Yemen in order to combat impunity, which is also our approach in a range of areas of conflict, the difficulty being, as I said and you yourself pointed out, to gather accurate and credible information on this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. The record is obviously quite heavy in terms of civilian casualties; I will not recall the figures. It is time to urge international bodies, it is time, in any case, for Belgium, to urge all countries that supply arms or plan to provide arms to any actor in the conflict, to set up an embargo, to suspend such arms transfers immediately when there is such a serious risk that they are used to commit serious violations of international humanitarian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u4	Mr Dallemagne is present in the Committee of Inquiry on the attacks of 22 March and does not want to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u5	Minister, since the beginning of April, Nagorno-Karabagh has been the scene of a resurgence of the latent armed conflict between Armenian independenceists supported by Yerevan and the armed forces of Azerbaijan since 1988. While many skirmishes have been reported in recent years in this predominantly Armenian region enclaved in Azeri territory, the clashes we are witnessing today are unprecedented in terms of deployed assets and civilian and military casualties since the 1994 ceasefire, which put a provisional end to a six-year conflict that has claimed more than 30,000 victims. Baku reportedly unilaterally announced a ceasefire, but the authorities of Nagorno-Karabagh assure that nothing has changed on the ground and that its army is about to consolidate territorial gains. Mr Minister, is a meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers soon planned to discuss the issue of the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict? If so, what is Belgium's position? Do you have more detailed information on the state of play of the ongoing negotiations within the Minsk Group organised under OSCE auspices? If so, could a draft peace treaty soon be submitted to the various actors in the conflict? Does your department intend to make specific recommendations with regard to Belgian nationals currently residing in Armenia and Azerbaijan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u6	Mr Minister, in the same vein and in the wake of the debate that has just taken place in the Council of Europe on this subject, I would like to ask you about the situation in Nagorno-Karabagh, which has deteriorated recently. Further clashes have reactivated the military conflict between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces. They are the deadliest since the 1994 ceasefire, which are also known as the "four-day war" and have claimed many lives. Minister, what is your analysis of these new tensions? Are any initiatives, particularly European ones, taken to allow tensions to decelerate between the different parties? It is urgent for the international community to act and to assume its responsibilities. What about the discussions and negotiations of the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) at present? What follow-up is given by our Belgian and European diplomacy to this conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u7	Following the military clashes in Nagorno-Karabagh, a ceasefire was declared on 5 April. It seems to be generally respected. Nevertheless, tensions remain along the contact line. This resurgence of violence caused many deaths and destruction and slightly altered the route of the contact line. This resumption of hostilities has demonstrated the urgency of reviving the negotiations in order to find a lasting peace solution agreed to by both parties, to avoid a burning that could become regional and to put an end to the suffering of the local populations. The international community as a whole would have no interest in seeing the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict stir up. Maintaining the status quo cannot guarantee the stability of the ceasefire. The international community must use all the levers at its disposal to help both parties find an acceptable compromise. Already during the Belgian OSCE Presidency in 2006, and during the subsequent Presidencies, significant efforts were made to reach a settlement of the frozen conflicts, including for Nagorno-Karabagh. Since the failure of the peace plan proposed in Kazan in 2011, the Minsk Group has focused in particular on the identification of confidence-building measures, the question of monitoring the ceasefire and the organisation of high-level contacts between the Azerbaijani and Armenian sides, such as the meeting of the two Presidents last December. The recent escalation has led the Minsk group to increase contacts both with Yerevan and Baku and also with third parties. Russia, the group's co-chair, has been particularly active in this area. On the European side, the Special Representative for the Caucasus, Herbert Salber, is the main vector of our diplomacy in this conflict. He regularly visits the region to engage with both sides. Its action is aimed at supporting the efforts of the Minsk Group of which the European Union is not a member. Furthermore, the European Union is engaged, both with Armenia and with Azerbaijan, in negotiations to deepen bilateral relations and thus contribute to the principles of the neighbourhood policy. This Monday we had a meeting with the six Eastern Partnership countries. I, like others, have had the opportunity to stress the need to resolve such conflicts through direct contacts between the two sides. The two Foreign Ministers of Azerbaijan and Armenia were present at the meeting. As Belgium is not part of the Minsk Group, our diplomacy is only indirectly seized by this issue within the European Union, the OSCE or the UN. However, Belgium fully supports the mediation efforts based on the Madrid principles set out in 2007. During our chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe last year, we also worked to raise the awareness of both sides in order to resolve the conflict. I welcome the meeting in Vienna on 16 May of this year, which has enabled the dialogue between the protagonists to be reinvigorated. Finally, following last April's clashes, no specific recommendations were made to our nationals on the spot. We continue to advise them formally and strongly not to visit Nagorno-Karabagh, as well as a number of border areas between the two countries. But, I repeat on every occasion, this was still the case last Monday, like other European states, we insist that we should be able to resume the path of a solution to this conflict that has been frozen for a long time now, as we would obviously like to be able to change other situations, including the occupation of territories by the Russian Federation, whether in Georgia, Moldova, Crimea or participation in conflicts in eastern Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u8	Thank you for your answers, Minister. The problem is that as long as this area around Nagorno-Karabagh, which still accounts for 20 per cent of Azerbaijan's territory, is occupied by armed troops, the dangerous area is still much wider, in situations like this one, than the 20 per cent of Azerbaijani territory. Several international resolutions condemn the occupation of Azerbaijani territory by the Armenian army. I do not mention the Upper Karabagh, but all that is around it, the border regions. As long as these troops are there, it will be almost impossible to find a solution to this conflict. It has been more than 20 years now that we have been trying to solve this problem at different levels. There's a million displaced people. There are civilian elements that are considered to be weapons of war. We don't see the situation changing. There are other parts of the world where things are moving much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u9	Mr Dallemagne apologizes for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u10	Minister, an association agreement between the European Union, Euratom and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, was approved in the Chamber on 23 April 2015. Around this time, the other parliaments of the country also agreed to the association agreement. Belgium has already ratified that agreement. For the sake of clarity, our party did not approve that association agreement, because it also goes far beyond just more trade. It contains military provisions and a section on political integration. It may also have to lead to EU membership in the long term. The Netherlands has not yet ratified the Convention and that is where the Association Agreement was the subject of a referendum held last month. The GeenPeil Committee collected the 300 000 signatures needed for such an advisory referendum. That committee considered that important decisions at European level, such as billions of aid to Greece or enlargement of the EU, did not take sufficient account of the opinion of the electorate. They were able to enforce that referendum and signed almost half a million Dutch for more democratic participation in Dutch and European political developments. At 32 % the turnout threshold was reached at the referendum and the result was a major victory of the no-camp. Of all voters, 61 percent rejected the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine. This referendum once again exposed the gap between the EU's establishment policy and the opinion of the ordinary Dutchman. However, the result of the referendum is not binding. A majority of the House of Representatives gave the message to Prime Minister Rutte that the cabinet should not ratify the association agreement with Ukraine, but ratification of the Netherlands is a necessary condition for the entry into force of that association agreement. Article 486 of the Agreement provides that the Association Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of deposit of the last instrument of ratification or approval. It is true that parts of the agreement are applied on a provisional basis, as far as EU competences are concerned and not national competences are concerned. Minister, what is the government's position on the non-ratification by the Netherlands of the association agreement with Ukraine? What lessons does the federal government draw from the referendum and the ensuing motion of distrust of the Dutch people towards the European Union? Our northern neighbours clearly rejected the association agreement. Does this affect the attitude of the federal government towards that treaty or any other treaties which extend additional powers to the European Union or which provide for additional EU accessions? In the meantime, a spokesman of the European Commission stated that the rejection of the Ukraine Treaty by the Netherlands had no impact on the implementation of the agreement for the time being. Will the federal government urge the European Commission to respect the democratic will of the Dutch citizen? Do you not think that citizens in this country should also have the right to express their views on such a far-reaching treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u11	Minister, as a reminder, just over two years ago, in 2014, Crimea was annexed by Russia. Today, the construction of a giant bridge connecting the peninsula with Russia has begun. This bridge, which is expected to be completed in 2018, will endorse the annexation of Crimea. What is your view of the situation? What is the position of the international community on the construction of this bridge? It is known that Western public opinion has always opposed the annexation of Crimea, but now it is clear that the embargo and the various measures taken have been relatively effective. In this context, how is the relationship between the European Union and Belgium with Ukraine and Russia evolving? What about compliance with the Minsk agreements? What is the current record for our country of sanctions against Russia? What did the NATO-Russia Council give at the end of April?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u12	After the referendum on 6 April, the Dutch authorities will decide whether to proceed in this new debate, in accordance with the laws of that country. Our federal government has taken note of the outcome, but has no particular lessons to draw from a debate in a partner country in which it did not participate. The outcome of a referendum in the Netherlands or another European Member State does not affect the way in which the federal government will address future EU agreements. It is not for the Belgian Government to defend or represent the interests of the Netherlands in the European institutions. The Dutch Government must draw its own operational conclusions from the outcome of the referendum. Moreover, to answer Mr Dallemagne's question more specifically, I would point out that the other Member States of the European Union have adopted the same attitude as Belgium. For them, too, the ball is on the sidelines of the Dutch government, which has told its partners that it should be given time to work calmly. With regard to the ratification of the agreement in Belgium, it has come after a very rich debate, both at the federal level and at the level of the Länder. I am therefore completely satisfied with the democratic nature of the debate in Belgium on this issue. With regard to Mr Blanchart's question, I would first say that the construction of the bridge over the Kerch Strait between Russia and occupied Crimea does not change the international situation. Of course we understand the aims of this construction in the minds of the Russian leaders, but Crimea is part of Ukraine. The European Union will continue to implement its non-recognition policy. Relations between the European Union and Russia, on the one hand, and Ukraine, on the other, remain marked by the same principles that have prevailed since the annexation of Crimea. While fully supporting the European approach, Belgium also maintains a frank and constructive dialogue with both Ukraine and Russia. Progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreements is more than laborious. While it must be recognized that these agreements will have had the merit of initiating a military de-escalation, progress on the other aspects is still pending. It should be recalled that the lifting of sanctions against Russia is conditional on the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Our Ukrainian colleague, who was also attending the meeting I mentioned last Monday in Brussels, was rather pessimistic, showing the military developments still at work today on the ground and providing documents on this military presence. Economically, as you mentioned, if our exports to Russia have fallen sharply, sanctions are not the main cause. This decline is mainly due to the recession in Russia, which was primarily caused by the fall in oil prices. Russian counter-sanctions on agricultural products have stopped their export to Russia and the producers concerned have, for the most part, managed to export their production to other markets. A number of figures that have been presented show this. But I do not deny that some producers are still in difficulty. Only the pigmeat producers who had been the victims of a pre-sanctioned Russian phytosanitary embargo and the milk producers, who were the victims of the overall crisis in the sector, obviously continued to suffer for a long time. I welcome the holding of the NATO-Russia Council at the end of April this year. You know that I always advocate a firm policy towards Russia, where it is necessary, particularly in view of the situation in Crimea or in eastern Ukraine or, as I said earlier, in Georgia or Moldova, but I also advocate a dialogue with Russia. In particular, the NATO-Russia Council provided an opportunity for a useful discussion on the situation in Ukraine, the mechanisms to prevent military incidents and Afghanistan. I note that the positions between NATO and Russia remain very divergent, of course, especially on the first point on the agenda of the NATO-Russia Council. Belgium is now arguing with a number of allies to have a second meeting, which was agreed at the last NATO ministerial meeting, and to hold this second meeting before the Warsaw Summit in July. The dialogue between NATO and Russia is part of our traditional approach to a firm and credible deterrent coupled with political dialogue. The latter is particularly important, both bilaterally between Belgium and Russia, and at the level of the European Union or NATO, as I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u13	Minister, you say that Belgium has no lessons to learn from the referendum in the Netherlands. At least there are lessons to be learned in democracy. Only the fact that a referendum was held in the Netherlands has led to a great deal of substantive discussion and has greatly enriched the debate on the Ukraine Treaty. This is what we wanted to do in the Chamber, without having had a thorough debate about it outside. The Dutch have at least had the opportunity to express their opinion on such an important treaty. I didn't expect you to defend the Dutch. You do not represent them. I would have expected you to defend democratic interests and to take a clear position in the European Union that the will of the people must always be followed. You clearly choose the flight ahead. There is no need for referenda here. You act as if there is no such thing as the great gap between the population on the one hand and the decisions in the European Union on the other. However, it would have been the logical course of action if the Dutch Government had not the courage to draw conclusions from the clear opinion of the people, at least you would be watching over that democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u14	Thank you, Minister. If we do not see any real military progress, we also do not see the arrival of Ukraine's promised reforms within the country, which is also a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the conference on the prevention of extremism that you attended a few weeks ago in Geneva. If I am not mistaken, the objective of this conference was to bring together the positions and fields of action of the various actors in order to tackle the root causes of extremism. We have also learned that, on the margins of this conference, you have met with the Secretary-General of the United Nations who wanted to talk to you, apparently following the attacks in Brussels on 22 March. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of this two-day meeting? Can you also tell us what topics were discussed with the Secretary-General of the United Nations? Did he, among other things, address the issue of the fight against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u16	Mijnheer de voorzitter, Mr Crusnière, at the invitation of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Ban Ki-moon, and of the Swiss Government, I attended the ministerial segment of the conference on preventing violent extremism in Geneva on 8 April. The main objective of the conference was the global political mobilization around the Secretary-General's action plan on the prevention of extremism, and in particular violent extremism. The General Assembly adopted a procedural resolution on the prevention of violent extremism on 12 February. A more in-depth discussion on the plan will take place in June in New York, in the General Assembly, during the biennial review of the comprehensive strategy against terrorism. Belgium welcomes the action plan which has the merit of promoting a holistic approach to terrorism and extremism at the global level. Belgium, its Regions and Communities, as well as the municipalities, have been following this approach for a long time. We have tried to integrate all aspects related to the fight against violent extremism. The plan sets out the essential framework for preventing extremism and encourages each State and Region to assume its responsibilities. The plan rightly highlights the elements necessary to combat this scourge, including the rule of law, the fight against impunity, human rights and the role of youth and the role of women. Many efforts have already been made. Our additional efforts should be placed in this context, by developing as much as possible the necessary synergies between existing strategies at national, regional and, of course, global level. It is true that, in the margins of the conference, I had a bilateral meeting with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, during which I confirmed Belgium's support for the plan. The Secretary-General also called for a more open and supportive Europe in the face of radicalisation, but also in the face of the challenges of migration. He stressed very much the difficulties in Europe today in this area, and the sometimes catastrophic images - I have had the opportunity to comment on them sometimes in our committee - of the physical borders that are being restored to a number of places in the European Union or on the edge of the European Union. At the request of the Secretary-General, we have also dealt with the situation in Central Africa, because, as in almost every one of his contacts with Belgian representatives, the subject is discussed. I'm not going to develop, you know our position on this. But above all, I have drawn attention to the difficulties encountered so far in the search for a dialogue in Burundi and, of course, to our concerns about the processes that still need to be carried out, in particular the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Of course, we maintain a direct link with the Secretary-General in this area, but this is a subject that remains systematically raised whenever meetings are held with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the current situation in Rwanda. It appears that the Rwandan authorities again do not respect fundamental rights and freedoms. In particular, some members of opposition parties were concerned and imprisoned because they had run in 2010 in presidential elections against Paul Kagame. They are still imprisoned today in inhumane conditions: renting a sleeping space, lack of sanitary facilities, no access to water, etc. Minister, have you met your Rwandan counterpart recently? Respect for fundamental rights and freedoms is essential within a few months of the presidential elections to be held in 2017. Did you also discuss this issue with him, including the imprisonment of political opponents of Mr. Kagame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u19	Mr President, Minister, we know how complex the situation in Central Africa is. We have discussed this with you about the Congo very recently. As we have seen, the situation in Burundi following the last elections is not simple either. Again this afternoon, we learned that a retired colonel had just been murdered in front of his house. In Rwanda, Mr. Paul Kagame, like his neighbours, amended his country's Constitution in order to be able to run for a new term. As a result, he was re-elected. He was the architect of the stabilization of his country after the terrible genocide, however, it seems that this stabilization takes place at the expense of respect for human rights. Indeed, to facilitate his re-election, Mr. Kagame did not hesitate to have some of his opponents imprisoned. Among them was Ms. Victoire Ingabire, still incarcerated, at any time at the time of the question, and detained at the central prison in Kigali under conditions which, according to human rights organizations, put her life at risk: no sanitation or access to water, obligation to pay for a place to sleep. Ms. Ingabire's health requires the follow-up of an appropriate medical regime, in accordance with the medical certificate that has been confiscated from her, with the risk that this right will be removed. Finally, her friends fear that she will be transferred to a prison far away from Kigali, where she has been able to receive their food and moral assistance so far. The tightening of Ms. Ingabire's conditions of detention seems to correspond to the latter's seizure of the African Court of Human and Peoples' Rights in order to recover her civil and political rights following her 15-year prison sentence. At the same time, the Rwandan Government has decided to withdraw from the protocol allowing NGOs and citizens to appeal to the Court in such a way as to render Mrs Ingabire's procedure ineffective. The Court must rule on that decision. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, since Belgium is a member of the UN Human Rights Council and given our country's historical ties with Rwanda, how do you intend to act to ensure that the Rwandan regime finally respects the fundamental freedoms of its citizens? Do you intend to call for the immediate release of all political and opinion prisoners? To support this request, do you intend, together with Mr Alexander De Croo, Minister for Cooperation, to condition Belgium's assistance to Rwanda with respect for human rights, including freedom of expression and association? Do you intend to defend this political line in the UN Human Rights Council? Will you ask our representative in Rwanda to visit Ms. Ingabire in order to ascertain her conditions of detention, as you do in Morocco?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the degree of openness of public space during elections is at the heart of Belgium's concerns about Rwanda, as in other countries in the region and sometimes in other parts of the world. I will therefore address the restrictions on political freedoms during my visit to Rwanda next month. I'm going to Kigali in June. On the government side, I intend to meet with my counterpart Louise Mushikiwabo, as well as the Minister of Justice. They will therefore be excellent interlocutors to talk about human rights. Meetings with human rights defenders and people of different sensitivities are also on the agenda. Belgium is already engaged in the field of human rights in Rwanda. Our country has funded a workshop on follow-up to the universal periodic review held on 28 and 29 April in Kigali. About 40 civil society organizations, media representatives and a representative of the Ministry of Justice participated in the workshop. All subjects, even the most sensitive such as enforced disappearances or political rights, were discussed. Various proposals had been made to improve knowledge and also to improve the implementation of the recommendations of the universal periodic review. Our position in Kigali is directed to make concrete references to this periodic review in its communication. For example, Belgium joined the European Union's joint local declaration on World Press Freedom Day. Published on 3 May, the Declaration encourages Rwanda to make progress in the area of media freedom and freedom of expression in general, recalling the two recommendations of the universal periodic review on this subject. With regard to the fate of imprisoned political opponents, our embassy in Kigali and my services regularly make the necessary contacts with members of the opposition in Rwanda and representatives of independent human rights organizations in order to verify allegations made by opponents abroad about the conditions of detention. From these contacts, it appears that the conditions of detention of opponents in official detention centres do not differ fundamentally from those of other detainees. This obviously does not guarantee an ideal treatment of these people. In the more specific case of Victoire Ingabire, of course, we remain vigilant about this emblematic case, but we do not yet have any information to say that his conditions of detention are inhuman, as we sometimes hear. Our embassy will continue to carry out this follow-up and will remain attentive to this issue, as well as to access to its lawyer. Last week, Ms Ingabire's Dutch lawyer apparently did not have access to her client and had to leave the country for a visa issue. Our embassy follows this with its Dutch colleagues. I will have the opportunity to refer to this kind of situation again during my visit next month. I have also prepared this visit through an interview with the Ambassador of Rwanda in Brussels. I told the ambassador that we wanted to focus on the opening of public space, certainly as part of the preparations for an election. As far as the use of development aid is concerned, this is a matter that is more directly dependent on my colleague in charge of cooperation, but I would remind you that in 2014, Belgium decided not to grant an incentive tranche of EUR 40 million because certain indicators related to freedom of the media had not been reached. Where necessary, there is no hesitation in using the development cooperation tool as well to make our remarks and requests regarding the opening up of public space, as well as, more generally, the situation of the rule of law and individual freedoms in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u21	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u22	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister. I would like every Member State of the European Union to act in the same way in Rwanda. It would be useful if the Minister could convince all the Member States of the European Union to act like that. There would then be more pressure on Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u23	If my information service is right, the minister will visit Rwanda and Uganda within 15 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u24	(...) Tanzania and Rwanda in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u25	I suppose we'll have an opportunity to discuss it with you when you get back?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u26	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u27	We will therefore follow this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u28	I had Mr Nollet informed me. If he doesn't show up, his question No. 10779 expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u29	Mr Grovonius has been prevented from asking questions in the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u30	Minister, Ecuador has recently been shocked by a devastating earthquake. It is estimated that more than 650 people would have lost their lives in this natural disaster. According to President Correa, the economic damage would amount to around EUR 2.6 billion. We have already asked Minister De Croo a question about this in this committee. He has informed us that he is providing support through the funding of the Belgian NGOs and through the multilateral organisations. There was no direct assistance from DGD. According to Minister De Croo, Ecuador would also have asked for help from our Belgian embassy in Lima. I have the following questions, Minister. When did that question arrive at the embassy? When was she delivered to your services? What elements were involved in Ecuador's request for help? Can the Chamber have that question? What elements did you decide whether or not to go into? What instruments would you use to do that? Has B-FAST been considered for help? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u31	Mr President, the answer was drawn up in the two languages, as a question had also been put by Mrs Grovonius. For Japan, from the first earthquake, on 21 April, as well as during the second earthquake during the weekend, our embassy in Tokyo sent a message to all Belgians registered in the consular register as residing in the disaster-stricken region (about 20), as well as to the 87 tourists in Japan registered via the "travellersonline" site in order to enquire about their situation. I invite all Belgians who go abroad once again to register on our website. That is very useful to contact if necessary. That was the case in Japan for 87 tourists. This is easier than looking for all possible Belgians on the spot. Many reported that they were safe or that they had delayed their journey. The Embassy continues to monitor the situation on the spot and confirms that there are no known Belgian victims so far. We will continue, but so far we have no indication of a possible Belgian victim in Japan. For Ecuador, as early as Sunday morning, April 17, our embassy in Lima, Peru, in collaboration with the Honorary Consul in Ecuador, sent a message to Belgian nationals registered as resident in this region of Ecuador and also telephoned the Belgians who were travelling in the affected region and whose data could be found, again thanks to the inscriptions on "travellersonline" (45 registered). There is so far no Belgian victim to be deplored. The same reasoning certainly applies to that country, but also to many other countries. It is very useful to be registered on travellersonline.diplomacy.be. So far we have no indication of a possible Belgian victim. According to the various sources of information of local authorities in Japan, there is no core risk in that region. It is an exchange of information with local authorities. Our embassy was thus informed. B-FAST monitored the two earthquakes through international coordination structures with the European Union and the United Nations. Where Japan did not request international emergency assistance, Ecuador distributed, on Sunday, 17 April, in the morning, via the United Nations, a request for international emergency assistance, but without giving any details. On Sunday evening, between 10 and 11 p.m., the European Union Coordination Centre issued a request for ten USAR medium-type teams, leaving it possible to offer heavy-type teams. B-FAST considered this application, but decided not to mobilise a USAR team anyway. According to international search and rescue standards, this specific question was formulated relatively late. This made it impossible for an efficient deployment of a team on the ground. The placement of a Belgian team was possible on Tuesday morning 19 April at the earliest, so more than 48 hours after the earthquake. On the basis of the available data, nine USAR teams were sent to Ecuador, almost exclusively from the region. That also makes sense in the short term. They came from Colombia, Chile, Argentina, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Peru and Russia. From Europe only Spain sent out a USAR team. France, the United Kingdom and Italy contributed with water purification modules and architectural engineers. On 29 April 2016, a Belgian expert was sent out through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. As far as humanitarian financial aid is concerned, I would remind you that Belgium is planning indirect funding through contributions to international humanitarian organisations. For example, €20 million was donated in 2016 to 4 organisations: the International Commission of the Red Cross, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and UNRA. Thus, Development Cooperation contributes to the flexible funds used for crises around the world. This year, Belgium contributed EUR 17.1 million to these funds. For the earthquake in Ecuador, the Central Emergency Response Fund will be used. The latter has, in the meantime, released $7 million for aid to the affected population. As for indirect bilateral cooperation, Belgium provides EUR 16.5 million for Ecuador in its 2014-2016 programme and thus has the fourth place in the budget of indirect actors. Belgian NGOs active in the country will have the opportunity to apply for funding of their programme for the period 2017-2021. Direct bilateral aid is no longer possible, since Ecuador is no longer a partner country for Belgium. In the last decision on our merger policy this was decided, but it is still possible to provide indirect aid. We also have a European Civil Protection Mechanism, which was activated at the request of the international community. With such a mechanism, it might have been possible to send specific assistance from B-FAST. So far my answer on the two countries. We are increasingly working in positive cooperation with the European Union. Parliament called for greater coordination in the European Union, especially in a number of situations so far from Belgium. There is no point in reacting immediately without coordination at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u32	Mr Minister, indeed, if our team can only arrive 48 hours later, I think there are other countries that can provide the first urgent aid better. It is good that we can still do something for Ecuador through development cooperation. It is no longer a partner country in the future, but in the meantime we can offer some help. It is also important to keep an eye on the region, in the sense that we keep our diplomatic network there as best we can. The region is very sensitive, not only to a disaster as in this case, but also from a democratic point of view. Thank you for the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Nollet's 10779 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u34	Mr Grovonius has been excused for activities in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u35	Deputy Prime Minister, on 1 July Slovakia will take over the presidency of the European Union. Its task will be to include its action in the programme defined by its trio with the Netherlands (which currently holds the presidency) and Malta, which will succeed it. During the discussions with its partners, the Slovak government announced that it was directing its action at the head of the EU, on energy and industrial policy, the fight against tax evasion, the digital economy, the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership, which you mentioned, European cohesion policy and social inclusion. In the light of current events, these themes take on a rather special focus. Thus, the refugee crisis has shown that, in terms of cohesion, some Central European States have a very different understanding of the problem of welcoming foreigners. Social inclusion is also an area where some show questionable practice with their minorities. I believe that this is the subject that Mrs Grovonius intended to address. How not to worry then about Slovakia's action in these areas, while the recent election campaign has led to an escalation in the rejection of the reception of refugees and a stigmatization of Roma minorities, with the electoral result that is known: the Smer Socialist Party, which, although first, lost 16% of the votes and has only 49 seats, to the far-right parties LSNS (which is, I believe, clearly pro-Nazi) and SNS, both totalling 29 elected, 14 and 15 on both sides. On the other hand, how not to be worried by seeing that Mr Fico, the outgoing Socialist Prime Minister, has decided to join one of these two extreme right-wing parties by leaving him the portfolios of defence, agriculture, education, while 23% of the 18-25 year-olds have already voted for them. In order to reach the majority, the Hungarian Minority Party, a member of the EPP, was also asked to join them, as well as a Christian Democratic dissident party, while fortunately leaving the Liberal Freedom and Solidarity Party, which became the second party with 21 out of 150 seats in the opposition. The European Socialist Party (PSE) decided to exclude Smer once again from its group, which it had already done before. We can only hope that the EPP will do the same with the Christian Democratic Party. This would be a means of putting an end to this rampant legitimization of xenophobic extremism by traditional parties, which is reflected in the fact that Mr. Orbán's or Alessandra Mussolini's retention of Fidesz in his ranks and whose adverse electoral effects can be seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u36	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you tell us whether, during your discussions with European PPE officials like Mr Juncker, for example, there seems to be any development in this direction? Can you tell us whether the members of the European Council have raised the issue of the Slovak European Presidency and its objectives? And finally, can you tell us whether political action at European level is going to take shape in order to put a stop to those populist and xenophobic drifts which seem gradually and inexorably to gang up our continent? Fortunately, we escaped in Austria but by little! You have stressed, in replies to inquiries and rightly so, that before giving lessons on human rights, Europe should first ensure that its reality is consistent with its discourse. It seems that the time has come to forcefully reaffirm the foundations of our union, the respect for rights and freedoms in opposition to the murderous barbarism that bloodshed Europe between 1939 and 1945, a period which the NSL and its associates seem to have nostalgia for, just as there are in Greece as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u37	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, on April 26, the Slovak Parliament agreed on the programme of Prime Minister Fico's new government in a coalition of socialists, nationalists, liberals and the Hungarian minority party. This new team has yet to prove its worth, but the words of the "Our Slovakia" party are very worrying. The aggressive rhetoric of the extreme Slovak right is not limited to the Roma community: it also targets migrants - few in Slovakia -, homosexuals, the European Union and others. The President of the Conference of Catholic Bishops and the President of the Central Confederation of the Jewish Communities of Slovakia, in a joint statement on 14 March, expressed their concern about the rise of racism. The Slovak Government, like its predecessors, faces an important challenge: combating discrimination and facilitating Roma integration. Of the €9.5 billion expected for Slovakia under the European Social Fund and the ERDF (European Regional Development Fund) for the period 2014-2020, the Slovak Government has committed in particular to mobilise €450 million for the 150 municipalities with the most marginalized and deprived Roma communities. However, the problem of Roma integration is not limited to Slovakia. Therefore, in June 2011, the European Council adopted a European framework for national Roma integration strategies up to 2020, which provides, inter alia, for each Member State to establish a national strategy by the end of 2011, or at least a set of integrated policies for Roma integration. The Commission is responsible for overseeing this strategy. I note that on the basis of the 2014 report, the Commission launched an infringement procedure against Slovakia in April 2015 on the grounds of discrimination against Roma children in education. The Slovak Government seems aware of the importance of this issue at European level and announces in the preparatory documents for its Presidency of the European Council, which will take place from 1 July to 31 December this year, that it will attach particular importance to social inclusion, including the integration of Roma. We will be paying attention to the follow-up to this programme, as announced. The Presidency's programme will be based on the trio's programme, i.e. with the Netherlands and Malta, and will only be discussed at the beginning of the Presidency in the Council. Presidencies' programmes are not discussed at the level of Heads of State or Government. This will be done within the various formations of the Council. I have not heard of discussions in the EPP on an exclusion from the Hungarian minority party, Most-Hid. The party has not, to my knowledge, been subject to this kind of procedure, but it is always possible. I would simply say that this situation in Slovakia still reinforces me in the idea that it is essential to establish a system of periodic review of the state of the rule of law within the 28 Member States in the European Union. I spoke again this Tuesday at the General Affairs Council on the subject. I am pleased to hear the support not only of a number of partners around the table, in particular Italy, Portugal, the Scandinavian countries, some other States, but also to hear, in the conclusions of the Dutch Presidency, the willingness to work with the Commission on this proposal put forward by Belgium and now, in any case, joined in practice by Italy but supported by others. The aim of this proposal is, in fact, to have an annual report from the Commission on the basis of existing data - we already have tools in Europe to work on the rule of law and individual freedoms - a report which would make recommendations and lead to a country-by-country analysis of the situation, without discrimination, regardless of the country concerned, and not to wait for a particular problem in a State to address the situation of the rule of law. Clearly, the Austrian elections have awakened certain minds that are beginning to support this approach as well. I do not hope to make progress this year, even under the Slovak Presidency, in this process, which has been widely supported in the Council, simply because, I repeat, it is at least as important to carry out this periodic review of the rule of law as to continue the euro per euro work done on the budgetary situation of the Member States of the European Union. While the Maastricht Treaty is important, the Copenhagen political criteria are equally important. I therefore remain convinced that progress will continue in this direction and that the idea that I launched a few months ago will gradually lead to a real mechanism for the review of the rule of law. The situation you are referring to in one of the Member States justifies this revision, but in addition, the situation in many other Member States also justifies it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u38	The supplement to your reply recalls the one you already gave about the situation in Poland in plenary a few months ago. Indeed, the situation in different countries, and especially in Austria this weekend, shows that we need to be both open, clear and firm in these areas. Little bit, I read in La Libre Belgique that it was mentioned that a liberal party was one of the four parties in power. I have checked, it is not a liberal party since the Liberal party is in the opposition. All over the world, and particularly in Central Europe, political parties sometimes have a liberal label without being recognised by the liberals at European and global level. This is clearly a party that is not a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) or of the international, the only party that is the first opposition party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you several times about the violations of human rights and the democratic values of the Erdogan regime. I'm coming back to you today in the trial of two opposition journalists accused of espionage by the government. They risk life imprisonment. These two men, deemed to be quite critical of the Islamist-conservative president, are being prosecuted for publishing an investigation accusing the government of having delivered weapons to the Islamist rebels in Syria. Needless to say, freedom of expression is a fundamental human right. Violations of human rights and the press continue in Turkey. Minister, what is the Belgian Government's position on these violations of freedom of expression in Turkey? Have you addressed this issue in your recent bilateral on-site discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u40	Mr Minister, on 4 May 2016, the European Commission proposed to abolish the visa requirement for Turkey, although at that time it had formally fulfilled only 65 out of 72 criteria. One of the criteria that had not yet been met was that Turkish anti-terrorism legislation had to be adapted to the European acquis, the Council of Europe's standards and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. On 6 May 2016, Turkish President Erdogan announced that there could be no question of Turkey amending its anti-terrorism legislation. On 11 May 2016, the European Parliament took the view that Turkey should meet all the criteria before the European Parliament will consider the European Commission's proposal in committee. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Firstly, does the federal government share the European Parliament's position? Will the federal government in the Council of Ministers not therefore agree to the abolition of the Turkish visa requirement until Turkey meets all the criteria of the road map and has therefore adapted anti-terrorism legislation? Secondly, is it fair to you that all countries in the same visa waiver procedure, such as Georgia and Ukraine, should comply strictly with all the criteria, while Turkey will be assessed with a softer hand due to the migration agreement of 18 March 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u41	Madam President, there are two different questions. So there are also two answers to the two Members. Mr Blanchart, I agree with you on the seriousness of the violations of civil liberties, including freedom of the press, in Turkey. We have seen this trend with the greatest concern in several months. We have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions in this committee. I therefore refer you to my detailed reply in the Committee on External Relations on 13 April. I can recall that human rights are an issue that is raised systematically at all levels of interaction we have with Turkey. I confirm that freedom of expression and the media was on the agenda of my discussions with my Turkish interlocutors in March in Ankara and with the Turkish Foreign Minister at our recent meeting in Brussels on 12 May. As you know, our diplomatic posts take part in concrete solidarity initiatives to defend freedom of expression. Our diplomats participated in press conferences to support imprisoned journalists. They visited a journalist who was subjected to violent physical intimidation. They attended the first hearing of the Istanbul court in which journalists from Cumhuriyet appeared. These actions are passed on by the press and are a sign of our commitment to freedom of expression in Turkey. During my last visit to Ankara, I met representatives of civil society, lawyers of journalists who had been imprisoned. We have discussed the issue of press freedom at length. I would like to make it clear that this is one of the two major concerns: freedom of the press in Turkey and the situation of the Kurdish population in the south-east of the country. That is part of my answer, also to Mr Van der Maelen's question. Belgium remains very attentive to the implementation of the EU-Turkey migration agreement. This applies in particular to the provisions relating to the visa liberalisation agreement. The Belgian position is always that Turkey must meet the criteria in the so-called road map. In the latest progress report of 4 May 2016, the European Commission stated that some important conditions were not met, such as the adaptation of Turkish terrorism legislation. This is also an important issue for our country. I have already informed my Turkish interlocutors. Belgium believes that Turkey must meet the conditions before we can proceed with a visa waiver. Since a few hours there has been a new Member of Parliament responsible for European affairs in the Turkish Government, but the previous one I have said quite clearly that it is difficult to move forward without a positive evolution in this area. I asked the European Commission to keep in touch. With the new government in Turkey, we may be able to make progress. That is also the Belgian position in the negotiations on visa liberalisation with other countries. At a meeting in the framework of the Eastern Partnership last Monday, I said that Georgia and Ukraine were already very advanced in the correct application of the technical criteria, making it possible for us to move forward with those countries. I have added that this applies not only to Georgia and Ukraine, but also to Turkey, which is not enough for Belgium to properly apply the different technical criteria before the decision on visa liberalisation; they must continue to meet the criteria. Therefore, there should be a mechanism for a possible suspension of an agreement in the event of a lack of application of one or other criterion. I say this to our Turkish partners, but also to my fellow Members of the Foreign Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u42	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u43	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and I hope that the government will maintain that position. I would also like to say that it is only at first sight that there are two different questions. Anti-terrorism legislation in Turkey is interpreted so widely that anyone who writes something in a newspaper that is considered by the security services to be some support for Kurdish and other forces is at risk of a conviction. At first glance it may be about two different questions, but in fact the problems are close to each other. I encourage the government to maintain that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u44	Mr Lijnen apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u45	Madam President, Minister, last January the House rejected a motion for a resolution on Poland and the defence of European values. The majority justified this rejection by saying that they wanted to wait for the results of the procedure launched by the European Commission. Last January, the latter decided to activate a mechanism to safeguard the rule of law against the new Polish government, following the latter's initiative to increase reforms to control the justice system and the media. The Commission was then asked to assess the situation, then draw up a recommendation and follow up on it. The European Parliament has also recently urged the Polish government to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court in order to get out of the crisis around this jurisdiction. The Conservatives in power in Warsaw have so far refused to publish the Tribunal's decision, which, on 9 March, found a new law to be in non-conformity with the Constitution amending the rules of its operation and leading to its de facto paralysis. This paralysis puts democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law, inherent in the European project, even more at risk. Minister, what is the assessment of the political situation in Poland since the procedure initiated by the European Commission? What has been the follow-up to the rule of law safeguards put in place in that country? What are the results? How does Belgian diplomacy, in its bilateral relations, urge the Polish Government to respect the decision of the Court of First Instance and, more broadly, European values? What is the government's action in this direction within the Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u46	Mr Minister, there has been another change in the file since yesterday. As recent as my question is, the question is a little out of date. Maybe the answer still matters. In view of the Polish situation, we must conclude that the Polish Government is a bit alienated from the mainstream in Europe. There's a lot of criticism about that. There was also pressure from the European Commission, which threatened to introduce the rule of law mechanism. From the discussions yesterday we understood that the Polish problems in Poland must be resolved and that Mr Timmermans gives the government some extra time to respond to the questions. Can you give me an update? What is your view of things, such as those that are taking place in Poland today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the setting up of a group of experts to examine the question of the implementation of the Venice Commission's recommendations in the Polish internal legal order, as well as the meetings organised at the initiative of PiS President Jaroslaw Kaczynski, with the presidents of the main parties, in an attempt to find a solution to the problem, divergent views remain. The differences concern both the validity of the decisions still rendered by the Constitutional Court and the way in which it operates, including the appointment of its members, the quorum of the judges present and the required majority within it. Belgium has the greatest confidence in the Venice Commission. For more than 25 years, the Venice Commission has produced documents of the highest quality in its role as legal adviser. The objective is to bring Member States' legal and institutional structures in line with European standards and international best practices in the area of democracy. I would also remind you of the opinion of the Venice Commission on the problematic legislative proposals requested by Poland itself in December 2015. The Venice Commission notes that in Poland all relevant actors continue to recognise the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal. Like that Commission, I believe that this is a good basis for a political solution to the current situation. Belgium will continue to fully support the dialogue between the Polish authorities and the European Commission as well as the Council of Europe bodies. On 18 May, the College of Commissioners discussed a draft opinion on the state of the rule of law in Poland, on the basis of a presentation by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans. At the end of the meeting, the Commission indicated in a communiqué that it considered that the Polish Constitutional Court was no longer in a position to carry out a genuine constitutional review and to verify the conformity of legislative acts with regard to fundamental rights. In particular, she expressed her concerns about the appointment of judges, compliance with the judgements of the Constitutional Court since March 2016 and the effectiveness of constitutional control over the new laws. The College of Commissioners authorised the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Timmermans, to adopt the draft opinion if no substantial progress had been made on 23 May 2016. However, Mr Timmermans has not done so so so far. He did go to Poland on 24 May 2016 to try to unblock the situation. If one fails to find a satisfactory solution, the European Commission could make recommendations in a second phase. In a third stage, the European Commission would, where appropriate, monitor the extent to which the recommendations have been followed. As I have already said, I can fully support the European Commission's initiative. The process launched by the European Commission is political in nature. The aim is to reach a solution through dialogue and consultation. There are no sanctions at this stage, as set out in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. On the other hand, the usefulness of the Commission's action should not be underestimated. I hope that the political pressure exerted on the political authorities will work out a solution. Moreover, I remain convinced that the existing mechanisms for monitoring respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights are insufficient. That is why I have proposed the launch of a periodic review on respect for fundamental rights in all 28 Member States. The proposal has some support and I intend to continue to promote it in the Council. That was the case last Tuesday in the General Affairs Council. One of the conclusions of the Dutch Presidency was to continue with the Commission for the implementation of such a Belgian proposal. I think that is the only way to ensure permanent control of the rule of law in the various Member States of the European Union. Mr Luykx, I have also seen the reactions. There may be another attempt in Poland to find a solution, but without any change, the European Commission will have to start the second phase, making recommendations. Perhaps even a third phase will be needed. I believe that the existing mechanism is useful, but that is not enough. We must continue to think about permanent monitoring of the rule of law and individual rights in all the Member States of the European Union. It is not enough to wait for a specific problem in a particular country to do something. It makes sense for the European Union to respond to a specific point, but it is even more important that a permanent mechanism of all twenty-eight countries be installed for this purpose. I have noticed that it is possible to obtain greater support for this. Perhaps this is due to the recent elections in Austria and the specific situation in Poland and other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u48	Minister, our concerns expressed almost two months ago are confirmed in light of the Commission's conclusions. It seems to me appropriate to relaunch a message to the Polish Government on behalf of Belgium. This committee could look at such a reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u49	I fully agree with you when you talk about how we need to find a solution. It's a useful tool. The procedure that is now being screened is a sword of Damocles. A periodic evaluation of basic rights in all Member States can really turn the tide, on a broad basis, legitimised and with greater credibility. That way we avoid focusing on one state. It brings the whole story wider and creates a greater acceptance. The systematic return of evaluations seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u50	Mr Minister, I have asked you several times about human rights violations within the European Union itself. Unfortunately, drifts continue - now more than ever. We must defend women's rights in our own country, as well as in the rest of Europe. Indeed, while in our country we must already express our opposition to proposals concerning the status of stillborn foetuses, because we believe that they simply undermine the right to abortion and therefore constitute direct attacks on women's rights, violations of these rights are present elsewhere in Europe. Indeed, when we see the intentions of the Spanish Conservatives and we observe Italy, where abortions are almost impossible, because eight out of ten doctors refuse to practice them, or Hungary, which establishes the protection of life from conception and which, de facto, hinders the use of abortion, we can only worry about such a situation. I am not even talking about countries such as Malta, where the ban on abortion is total and where the penalty for offences ranges from eighteen months to three years' imprisonment. Today, it is the turn of the Poles to take retrograde measures. The Polish government, hand in hand with the Catholic Church, plans to ban abortion altogether, which has already been strictly limited since 1993. While the current law only exposes the doctor who illegally practises IVG to a prison term of up to two years, the new draft provides for heavier penalties. Imprisonment could amount to five years and could also concern women who have an abortion. In addition, the new Minister of Health wants to limit access to the next day's pill, which would only be available on prescription from a doctor. This law again creates a climate of fear for individual freedoms. Clandestine abortions will significantly increase and consequently health risks as well. We can therefore only worry about such a situation in Europe. Mr Minister, the European institutions and we ourselves must fully activate diplomacy vis-à-vis governments that threaten women's rights. What is the action of Belgian bilateral diplomacy in this respect within the European Union and the Council of Europe? What can European bodies do to raise the awareness of European countries to take measures, particularly in terms of sex education and more broadly, in terms of sexual and reproductive rights? Should this not be referred to the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u51	Mr Blanchart, I share your concern about the situation of women's rights. Belgium systematically addresses the issue of human rights and, in particular, women's rights in all its bilateral contacts. Women's rights are one of the priorities of our foreign policy in terms of human rights, if I may say so. Belgium organized several side events on women's rights and co-sponsored the resolution on women's rights in the Human Rights Council and the UN General Assembly. Belgium encouraged other countries to ratify international instruments granting more rights to women. For example, during the universal periodic review of Hungary and Greece, which took place earlier this month, Belgium recommended that the respective governments ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. At European Union level, Belgium is fighting for the adoption of a new strategy on gender equality within the Union. This matter falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. I would remind you that there is also a European Institute for Equality between Men and Women based in Vilnius, Lithuania, whose mission is to help the European institutions and the Member States of the Union to integrate the principle of equality into their policies and to combat discrimination based on sex. The European Court of Human Rights may be referred to the European Court of Human Rights for an individual appeal from any person who considers himself to be a victim of a violation by one of the States parties to the European Convention on Human Rights. Again, as in previous questions, I would like to remind you of my initiative to evaluate all European countries with regard to rights and freedoms. I continue to advocate for its effective implementation without delay. I have made a number of progress, again, on the subject. And I think that the questions you regularly ask about the situation of individual rights in the Union show that we all have an interest in organising a European periodical without discrimination so that all Member States are treated equally and all situations can be examined in a very precise way. As far as women's rights are concerned, you have raised very concrete cases which should normally be the subject of such analyses and recommendations, probably annually.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. In order to avoid these abuses, it would really be necessary for women to be able to dispose of their bodies and to become a real European acquis. Now, Belgium must also stand in this direction at the level of the European Union. On the other hand, there are questions that can be asked when we see the proposals initiated by the CD&V. Are they not in contradiction with this project? Returning to Poland, the Conservative government continues to impose retrograde values that violate fundamental rights. The time has therefore come to react to this government. What will our diplomacy and the European authorities do to sound the alarm and condemn these liberticide drifts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u53	Minister, IS is losing ground in Syria and Iraq, according to the latest estimates about 30 to 40%. At the same time, the group would strengthen its presence in Libya. Islamic State is also active in other countries, often through local groups large and small who declare their loyalty to IS. Boko Haram did this last year, but I read in the press that these ties are now being strengthened. For example, hundreds of Boko Haram fighters have already gone to Libya for training, it seems. The New York Times reported on 20 April that a convoy of ISIS weapons had been intercepted in Libya towards Chad. In that context, I have a number of questions. Firstly, do you see any evolution in the relationship between ISIS and other major terrorist groups such as Boko Haram? Does the link between these groups remain largely symbolic or are there increasing forms of concrete cooperation? Would you mind explaining that for me? Secondly, is there an evolution in the appeal of IS to other groups as a world-leading organisation? Thirdly, what do you think is the impact of IS on Sub-Saharan Africa? Do you think it's realistic that the group is partly moving its activities there? Finally, what are the implications of your analysis of the previous elements for the international fight against these terrorist groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u54	Mr Vandenput, many existing terrorist organisations in North Africa, the Sahel, West Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East and South-East Asia are indeed joining Daesh. They often do this spontaneously, including to gain strength and recruitment from the working name Daesh. In practice, therefore, these movements receive limited support. This may be operational and communication............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Relations in the Sahel and West Africa between Al-Qaeda and Daesh-related groups may vary from cooperation to competition, with links to organised crime recurring. It is in fact a kind of Franchising in many different regions, with different levels of cooperation, financing or training. Daesh's development is strongest in Libya, where there would be now three to six thousand Daesh fighters around Sirte. Sirte, President Gaddafi's former home base, was in a problematic relationship with the rest of Libya, and Daesh responded to that isolation and offered an alternative. The first fighters were former Libyan foreign terrorist fighters from Syria and Iraq, along with a number of Daeshkaders. Foreign terrorist fighters from the Maghreb have joined in. There are also reports of foreign terrorist fighters from the Sahel and Sub-Saharan Africa as well as the annexation of refugees from the south on their way to Europe. The incorporation would be a way to pay for their journey and passage. There is also competition in Libya between Daesh and the numerous local jihadist and regionalist movements, limiting Daesh's expansion potential. Nevertheless, vigilance is needed, taking into account Europe's proximity and a possible destabilising effect on the Maghreb countries. So there is a strong evolution from Syria and Iraq to Libya. That is why we are increasingly in contact with the possible new Libyan government of national unity, which is very difficult to obtain support from all groups in Libya. So far, the influence on Sub-Saharan Africa has been rather limited, with the exception of the important zone controlled by Boko Haram, who has joined Daesh. In the Horn of Africa, the presence of Al Shabab limits the expansion of Daesh. Nevertheless, there is a need for vigilance here too. We must therefore support the strengthening of the resilience of these countries and their populations against the spread of violent extremism in our contacts and cooperation with these countries. Belgium's comprehensive policy in the Sahel on development policy, training of the army and police and diplomacy is a good example of an integrated approach in this respect. Within the international community, including the definition of the Sustainable Development Goals and the definition of criteria for the imputability of development projects within the DAC in Paris, the framework has been created whereby a security policy, including the prevention of violent extremism, and a development policy can go hand in hand. We are trying to extend the European approach to this issue. Last Friday, I met with five fellow Members from the five other first countries of the European Union in Hertoginnedal about the Sahel to look at the possibilities for doing more. There is already a special EU representative for the Sahel, Angel Losada. We may be able to do more in terms of development, defence and security, and we can try to find a political solution to the various conflicts. We are trying to do that with the G5, five countries present in the region. This evolution is new to the European Union. It is the objective of the European Union and many other organisations to develop a correct vision of the presence of so many terrorist organisations that are related or unrelated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u55	Minister, I am pleased that you have given me another picture of what we are doing at 3D level in Africa. That's a good example. The approach of the five countries is proactive and can prevent Libya from becoming a Syria-Iraqa. As long as there is no stable government there that can demand full support, we are in a very grey zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 11123 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 11151 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u57	Mr Minister, according to information readable on the website of a company called Henley & Partners, the Belgian government has called on the services of this company to "develop, set up and promote a residency programme in Belgium" - called the Belgium Residence Program - "which links the right to settle in Belgium to encourage direct investment, with a view to establishing a commercial activity in Belgium". Henley & Partners is known for its activities in the market for the relocation and relocation of wealthy individuals, as well as the acquisition of a nationality for this particular segment of new Belgians. The advice it provides has primarily an objective of tax optimisation. Hence, minister, my questions. They date a bit because in the meantime, an article appeared in the Vif / The Express that notes that the FPS Foreign Affairs has not had any contact, but I am still putting them down. Can you let me know on what legal basis your department eventually decided to join the services of Henley & Partners? This initiative is not part of the application of the Act of 15 December 1980, since none of the provisions of this Organic Act on the Residence of Foreigners addresses this issue of relocation for investment. Moreover, such an initiative was not announced in your policy statement, even under the banner of "economic diplomacy". Can you tell me when the contract between your services and the company in question was signed? What kind of collaboration does this contract involve? What are the fees already paid to Henley & Partners? Can you finally let me know what the concrete effects of the programme developed by Henley & Partners for Belgium were? Are you considering asking, if Henley & Partners is not collaborating with the Belgian State, that this company withdraw this possible false advertising from its website?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u58	Mr Hellings, I am not aware of a programme of this nature, in any case of a relationship with my department. I have asked the Foreign Office, since there are consequences in this area, which is not aware of such a programme either, but which notes that your questions concern people who wish to come and invest in our country and in this context, it is the Regions which issue the business card for investors. If the card is issued, there is a right of residence on the basis of which a visa is issued and municipalities may intervene upon instructions from the Office of Foreigners. In concrete terms, I have not had much information for more than a decade on the policies pursued by the Regions. Perhaps your political formation has had a little more in recent years? If anything of this nature exists, it is at the initiative of regional governments. If you wish, I can ask the question at meetings with ministers-presidents or ministers in charge of the Regions, but my department is not aware of such an approach. Of course, I do not want to comment on what has been done by the current regional governments or the previous ones. It is possible that such initiatives have already taken place, but we are not promoters of the approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is an opportunity to ask regional employment ministers an excellent question. You can count on the Greens to do it. However, this programme, as presented on the company's website, speaks of Belgium and is therefore based on the image of Belgium. It suggests that there are two categories of citizens: persons who apply for the right of residence via asylum or nationality and persons who, in exchange for important investments in Belgium, can obtain the right of residence or even nationality, which this firm proposes. This affects the image of Belgium for which you are responsible. I hope you will make sure that this firm no longer mentions on its website the fact that it is working with the Belgian government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u60	I have no problem getting in touch with this firm, if what it writes is actually wrong. We will check whether one or more of the Regions are pursuing this policy within the framework of their competences. We can both think what we want, I can't ask a firm to withdraw an allegation that is not false. When we talk about Belgium, the three Regions are part of it. I have my opinion on the policies carried out in the Regions but we will check them by questioning them. If this is indeed a false step, we can make contact through my department. First of all, I want to be certain that this is not a policy pursued by either of the regions or by all of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u61	Minister, we will transfer to your services the answers my colleagues will get at the regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u62	Mr Grovonius is still apologized and I have not heard anything from the other Members of this House in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u63	Minister, on 2 May 2016 at 11 a.m., Greenpeace Netherlands revealed to the international press 248 pages of confidential documents – that until then we were the only ones to be able to consult within your administration – concerning the ongoing negotiations of the TTIP. As Belgian and European ecologists have denounced for almost three years, it is clear that the European negotiators are to blame for the US negotiators and that, on a number of subjects, our representatives are ready to put the precautionary principle, dear to Greenpeace and Ecolo ecologists, in the balance of negotiations. Among other things, there is now formal evidence that European negotiators are currently defending the principle of prior regulatory consultation, which may ultimately have the impact of passing all future national and European regulations through the caudine forks of the sacrosanct respect for investment protection, the new name of free trade unbridled according to the Commission. Given the definitive proof that European negotiators are observing the values dear to the citizens of the Union, namely the precautionary principle, the regulation by the public authorities, the right of states to legislate in social and environmental matters and the principle of fair justice (the famous ICS or permanent arbitration tribunal), are you finally going to ask the next Council for an end to the negotiations in question? In the light of this evidence, do you intend to mobilise Article 128 of the Lisbon Treaty, which allows a State to ask the Court of Justice of the European Union for an opinion on the compatibility of a draft Treaty with European law? Do you envisage this for CETA and, if a text is unfortunately negotiated, for TTIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u64	Mr Hellings, on a subject which has already led to many misunderstandings, I can only associate myself with the regrets expressed by Commissioner Malmström about the misinterpretations made from documents which are admittedly confidential but incomplete. As a matter of fact, all these documents are confidential only to the general public, since you have had access to them in the reading room since the end of January. Another useful reminder is that these are consolidated documents, i.e. working documents which consolidate parts of European and American positions and which are in no way the final result of the negotiations. I know it's worth losing, but I would point out that what is said regularly about a treaty is wrong: there is no treaty, but a negotiation in progress. It is hopeless, since it is regularly claimed that a treaty is concluded with the United States, which is totally wrong. As I have already said before this committee, and repeated publicly last Friday at the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council, there is still a lot of work to be done even before we reach the final negotiating stage. It is therefore normal, at this stage of the negotiations, to see differences between European and American positions, since the two parties both want to achieve as many of their objectives as possible. But this does not mean that the European Union will give in to the demands of the United States, nor does it mean that positions will meet halfway. European Commissioner Malmström clearly confirmed on 13 May that there will be no agreement on the discount. I myself said that we were still far from an agreement. I have already had the opportunity to say so, but it seems useful to repeat this: what matters to Europeans is that the Commission respects the mandate given to it by the Council, which has been public since October 2014. It is this mandate that sets out the red lines and the objectives to be achieved. I can therefore only advise the reader, since it is in relation to this mandate that the Commission is working and the outcome of the negotiations will be judged by Belgium, as well as by its European partners. I would also like to point out that the proposals for European texts are all freely available on the Commission's website. A report is now also published after each round of negotiations and the Commission organises meetings with civil society to inform them of each stage of the process. The transparency provided by the European Commission is simply unprecedented for trade negotiations. Greenpeace therefore makes a reading of the texts which does not correspond to reality. As regards, for example, the precautionary principle, it is explicitly included in the proposal on regulatory coherence of the European Union, which was put on the table in February and published in March. In line with the objectives of the mandate (§ 25): "Regulatory compatibility will not prevent the right to regulate according to the level of protection of health, consumer safety, workers' safety, the environment and cultural diversity that each party considers appropriate." In line with the objectives of this mandate, this text clearly confirms that the European Union does not intend to abandon its autonomous right to regulate during the negotiations. All this clearly demonstrates that the European Union does not intend to lower its level of consumer protection, food safety or environmental protection. Like any other EU trade agreement, the TTIP will not limit the ability of governments to adopt new regulations to protect citizens or the environment or to regulate sectors such as health, culture or education separately. Finally, with regard to your repeated question on the request for an opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the conformity of such an agreement with the European Treaties, for the TTIP in any case, this is a matter which requires in advance that an agreement or a draft agreement exists, which is not yet the case. I find it rather paradoxical to ask for both an opinion and a halt to the negotiations. What do you want an opinion on since there is still no draft agreement between the European Union and the United States? But this demonstrates that there is a deliberate desire to disseminate false information among a number of participants in these public debates, certainly not in your own home. This false information is to make it appear that there is an agreement and that this agreement must be attacked. A negotiation is under way and I said that at the end of the last Trade Council of the European Union, we are still far from an agreement. And it is not by constantly repeating the American positions that we are going to give the European public or European public information about what is being defended by the Commission at the request of the Member States. The European position is not only accessible to parliamentarians in a reading room, it is also fully accessible on the Commission's website. Everything is published, in particular on the initiative of Belgium, because we were among the first to ask for this transparency. For CETA, such a request does not seem necessary in terms of the opinion of the Court of Justice on the basis of the information that my European colleagues and I received last Friday from Commissioner Malmström on the conduct of the negotiations and on the outcome obtained. We are continuing to move forward in the procedure, as announced at the Trade Council, with probably a new stage next June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u65	Mr. Minister, there is no doubt that progress has been made in terms of parliamentarians' access to the texts in question. From now on, the FPS Foreign Affairs is also open to us on Mondays. This allows us to have easier access to it. All the more so since with the release of Greenpeace, it allows us to focus on texts that were very long and to help us focus on the parts that interest us. It is clear that the combination of your opening and the release of Greenpeace will help us understand the consolidated texts. You have regrets about the interpretation. I have regrets about the substance. What is made accessible to us by the release of Greenpeace is the consolidated text, that is to say what is currently being prepared. In the consolidated texts, I note several problems, the ones I mentioned in my question. We are three years away from negotiations. The world's major economies are capped every two or three months, alternately on both sides of the Atlantic, to negotiate the most important trade agreement the Earth has known. We are three years away from negotiations. So the consolidated texts are not nothing after three years of negotiation! The aim is to remove non-trade barriers, namely social and environmental standards. And this is not about how the European Union works today, namely the need for the United States to incorporate the full acquis communautaire into its law or vice versa. We are working through prior regulatory consultation, that is, before we take a standard, we will ensure that we consult it with the United States and therefore put the protection of investments before the general interest. Finally, on Article 128, Minister, you could commit yourself to saying that since the text of the CETA raises a problem of citizen legitimacy, since the future consolidated text of the TTIP poses a problem for society, give them the legitimacy to go through the caudine forks of the Court of Justice of the European Union by giving an opinion. For the rest, governments will make informed decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u66	Madam Minister, both with the Isle of Man and with the Seychelles, our country has concluded a double tax treaty. On 13 March 2015, the federal government agreed to these treaties. The Treaty with Seychelles was adopted by the Chamber on 28 May 2015. Both countries are renowned tax havens and are then ideal as a link in the so-called treaty shopping. The conclusion of a double tax treaty with such countries will allow double non-taxation and will also open a boulevard for possible tax avoidance and evasion. This is right at the heart of the BEPS problem. It allows companies to organise themselves in such a way that they can easily shift their profits in order to minimise their overall tax burden. In De Tijd of 30 April of this year, the article entitled "All internet boys are in tax havens" again makes it clear that the Isle of Man and the Seychelles are typically used by Belgian taxpayers to avoid and evade taxes. The statistics of the Panama Papers show that the Isle of Man and the Seychelles are top locations often used by Mossack Fonseca, the law firm in the heart of the Panama Papers: 15 182 screen companies from Seychelles occur in the Panama Papers; 5 058 intermediaries from the Isle of Man were found in the Panama Papers. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, the draft agreement with the Isle of Man has not yet been submitted to Parliament, but the ratification procedure with Seychelles has not yet been fully completed. Is this also the state of play today? Secondly, are you prepared to suspend the ratification of both treaties and to open negotiations on an information exchange agreement to replace the negotiated double taxation treaties, in view of recent developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u67	Mr van der Maelen, these are two different issues, the partner countries and a more general discussion on a tax information exchange agreement. As regards Seychelles, there are two conventions: an agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Seychelles on the avoidance of double taxation and on the avoidance of tax evasion on income and a protocol amending the Agreement made in Brussels on 27 April 2006, signed in Brussels on 14 July 2009. Both treaties, which are of a mixed nature at internal Belgian level, have already been approved by all the relevant parliaments, with the support of many different groups. In accordance with the provisions of those Treaty texts, our country already informed the Seychelles authorities in 2015 of the completion of the procedures required by internal legislation, with a view to the entry into force of the conventions. The ratification procedure has therefore been completed since last year and cannot be suspended. For the Isle of Man, the federal procedure was initiated. The opinion of the Council of State has already been received. With regard to whether or not to continue the assent procedure, I would refer you to my colleague responsible for finance. The same answer applies to a possible start of new negotiations, in particular for a tax information exchange agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u68	Minister, I am disappointed by your answer. I knew you didn't have much respect for Parliament. The Committee of Inquiry's recommendations on the major tax fraud of 2009 called on the government not to conclude double tax treaties with tax havens. This commitment was respected by the previous government, but not by the current government. I had hoped that the revelations concerning the Panama Papers, which point to a very central role of Seychelles and of the Isle of Man, could have changed the government's views and made it decide to stop the ratification procedure. I am going to do this to the Minister of Finance on the fact that there are no double taxation treaties with tax havens, just information exchange treaties. I will question your colleague on this, but I fear that you will be able to deduce that this government is continuing in the wrong direction. It continues to facilitate the avoidance and even evasion by large multinational companies by supplementing the unfortunately very large Belgian network of double taxation treaties. After the United Kingdom, Belgium has the largest number of double taxation treaties. Finally, I would like to announce that, following the hearings in this committee, I would like to propose a resolution in order to reach a number of agreements between the government and Parliament on the tax treaties. I hope that after the revelations of the Panama Papers in the Chamber, the committee members will be more vigilant and not slavishly follow what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u69	Mr Minister, Libyan Vice-President Ahmed Maetig, during his visit to Rome, called for an agreement similar to that signed a month ago between the European Union and Turkey to be concluded between the European Union and Libya. Many migrants, often from sub-Saharan Africa, leave the Libyan coast on makeshift boats to join Italy. Minister, do you think such an agreement should be considered? Has your Italian counterpart ever addressed the issue at a meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers? Has an official request already been made to the European Union? If so, what was the European Union's response? If such an agreement were to be concluded with Libya, under what conditions, in your opinion, should it be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u70	Minister, almost two months after taking up office in Tripoli in March 2016, the government of national union is struggling to establish its authority in Libyan territory, and is faced in particular with the rival initiatives of the parallel government led by General Khalifa Haftar, based in the eastern part of the country. The Islamic State organization continues to take advantage of the chaos in which Libya is plunged in order to implant itself in the region and increase its influence. In response to this situation, several major Western powers have recently signed a declaration, in which they state, inter alia, that they support the efforts of the new Tripoli Executive, propose to lift the embargo on arms sales to Libya and express their readiness to respond to the government's requests to train and equip the country's authorized regular forces. What is Belgium's position on the possibility of lifting the embargo on the supply and sale of arms to Libya? Is Belgium, at this stage, in favour of intervention by the international community in terms of logistics, armaments and military training towards the Libyan regular troops responding to the government of national union? If so, is it already possible for you to inform me in more detail of the logistical, military and economic resources that we are prepared to deploy in the event of our country's possible participation in enhanced support from the Libyan government of national union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u71	Mr Crusnière, your question is about a possible European Union-Libya agreement on the question of migrants arriving in Europe via this country. According to the latest figures we have received from the European institutions, migration flows by road from the Central Mediterranean to Italy have increased since March and April 2016: 9,600 and 8,300 compared to 3,442 in February, but not reaching the level of April 2015, more or less 16 000 in this case. About 90 per cent of migrants arriving in Italy on this route come from Libya. The conclusion of an agreement between the EU and Libya, which would be similar to that concluded between the European Union and Turkey on migrants arriving in the European Union, is currently not on the agenda. The government of national unity is not yet in a position to carry out its tasks fully and has not yet established its authority over the country, which remains very divided, and where many militias are at work. Once the Government of National Unity is functioning, the State will still need to be rebuilt, both socio-economically and in the areas of security and justice. However, there are regular contacts between the European Union, EU Member States and Libyan actors, such as the Presidential Council, in which the issue of migration is addressed. High Representative Federica Mogherini stressed that the European Union is ready to support the government of national unity, which is also considered by the European Union to be Libya's only legitimate government. The Foreign Affairs Council of 23 May adopted conclusions on Operation EUNAVFOR Med' Sophia. The Council extended the mandate of the operation by one year and added two additional missions to it under certain conditions: the formation of Libyan coastguards, and participation in the implementation of the United Nations arms embargo. Mrs Jadin, the Ministerial Conference on Libya co-chaired by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Italy and the United States was held in Vienna on 16 May. It brought together Libyan Prime Minister Fayed el-Sarraj and members of the Libyan Presidential Council, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and more than 20 countries and international organisations, including the European Union. It enabled the international community to reaffirm its support for the Libyan Prime Minister and the national reconciliation process in accordance with the Skhirat agreement. In this context, the Ministerial Conference also expressed its support for the intentions of the Libyan Government of National Union to refer the United Nations Committee on Sanctions against Libya to submit appropriate requests for exemption from the arms embargo, in the context of the fight against Daesh and other terrorist groups designated by the United Nations, while respecting and strengthening the existing arms embargo. Belgium has always supported the arms embargo on Libya. Today it supports the strengthening of the Libyan government with a view to re-establishing the country's institutions, including a single national army. This will also enable the government to fight against Daesh and the terrorist groups designated by the United Nations. Belgium continues to support the activities of the European Union in the Mediterranean (Operation Sophia of which I have just spoken and EUBAM in Libya). At the moment, these activities are aimed respectively at dismantling networks of migrant smugglers and strengthening the management of Libyan borders. With a view to supporting the efforts of the national union government in Libya, Belgium continues to examine and follow closely the development of additional interventions. Intervention by the international community will first and foremost require a request from the Libyan government for national unity and an appropriate legal framework and must be part of a more comprehensive response strategy. But border protection is a particularly important issue today when we see the risks that a number of armed groups – terrorists in particular – are willing to make Tunisia run. We've seen that again lately. With regard to your question about the logistical, military and economic resources that we are prepared to deploy in a possible operation, the issue is not on the agenda at this time. But we can always try.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u72	Minister, I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u73	Mr Lalieux has indicated that she has been prevented from attending the Infrastructure Committee, where Minister Bellot's policy paper is discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u74	Mr. Chairman, we will be happy to transfer the answers to Mrs. Lalieux. Minister, on 25 April, ten Djiboutian women began a hunger strike to denounce impunity for rape in Djibouti. They were raped by soldiers of the government army, sometimes in front of their own families. These rapes take place especially against the Afars, in areas where the opposition is active. None of these have been punished so far, the regime even denying these abuses. These women live in Belgium. Some are asylum-seekers, while others already have recognized refugee status. They want to be heard at home, supported by the host country and the European Parliament. They are calling for an international investigation into the situation they and other women have suffered and are still undergoing there. The Djiboutian power has so far denied any rape. Minister, have you been aware of this situation? Have our diplomatic posts in the region and in charge of Djibouti responded? It is known that Belgium – in particular, under the aegis of the Defence – and Djibouti have long collaborated in the implementation of Operation Atalanta. Is there any formal or informal contact between your Djiboutian counterpart and yourself in order to deal with this matter in the near future? Finally, do you intend to refer our representative to the Human Rights Council on this sensitive issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u75	Mr Hellings, President Omar Guelleh was, as the Djibouti Constitution allows him, re-elected for a fourth five-year term on 8 April. Djibouti remains a faithful ally of the international community in the fight against terrorism in this highly volatile region of the Horn of Africa. The opposition and human rights NGOs regularly denounce the restrictions on public freedoms in the country. I've learned the facts that you're referring to. According to my information, and contrary to what unfortunately happened in the 1990s during the civil war in Djibouti, there is currently no systematic use of sexual violence against women in the Afar region. However, isolated cases of rape are actually reported. I have no planned contact in the coming weeks with representatives of the Djiboutian government. However, I intend to ask our Ambassador in Addis Ababa, also accredited in Djibouti, that the question of respect for human rights be explicitly addressed at the next meeting of European Heads of Mission with the Djibouti authorities, within the framework of Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement. The area of freedom for associations providing medical, psychological and legal support to victims is also an important point which should also be included on the agenda, especially since victims are often illiterate women living in remote areas. I would also ask our Africa Director to address this issue with the Ambassador of Djibouti based in Brussels. In general, the fight against impunity for violence against women is a priority for our country. Our representatives in international fora do not fail to address this issue whenever the opportunity arises. We are very concerned that, in a few countries, not only Djibouti, the gathering of accurate information on the facts that have been committed is being organized. This is the only way to be able, then, to implement procedures aimed at avoiding impunity, which is one of the two axes. We have, on the one hand, the fight against impunity, but, on the other, we have support for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, we expect a great deal from the initiatives that the Belgian Ambassador will take in Addis Ababa and from your services in Brussels in relation to the Ambassador of Djibouti. As you said, Djibouti is a diplomatic and military ally. I therefore hope that this special status will make the authorities in Djibouti feel right in moving this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u77	Belgium had passed its second universal periodic review (UPR) in the first quarter of 2016 and should decide by June, inter alia, on the recommendations made to Belgium by Switzerland and Hungary to ratify the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. Belgium has a clear obligation of outcome in this regard because, as the UN recalls in this excerpt from the recommendations of the Forum on Minority Issues of the Human Rights Council: "The recognition of minority status is not the sole decision of the State. In accordance with the authentic interpretation made by the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the existence of minorities must be established on the basis of objective criteria. Every effort must be made to ensure that the principle of self-identification is respected." At the consultation of civil society on 27 April, you could see that this issue is not the sole obsession of French-speaking associations in Flanders, since the League of Human Rights has called the non-ratification of the framework convention for the protection of national minorities "a stone in the shoe of Belgium that has been chasing us for years and years, a stone that our country is trying to remove. There is no reason why our country should be exempted from ratifying a convention that has a lot of merit." In addition, the experts to be working in the working group on minorities are now all appointed and can move forward. It would be regrettable if this designation were used as a screen for the next UPR, in 2021. Mr Minister, will the expert group be duly convened before Belgium's communication to the UN? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u78	Foreign Affairs sent an invitation to all members of the expert group on minority issues for a first meeting. The organisers try to ensure that all the experts are present at this meeting as far as possible. A final date has not yet been set for the very busy agendas of the members of the group. A meeting will be held and the group president will make every effort to ensure that it takes place at the latest in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u79	I hope it's really concrete. I have a small sub-question. Will the Francophones of Flanders be associated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u80	Minister, this is a somewhat special issue that we should not talk about often, but which, however, affects people. I admit that in the 21st century in Belgium, it is quite surprising to see what is happening. First of all, I would like to refer to the example of the Indonesian Embassy, where diplomatic sanctions have been applied because of the non-subordination of local Embassy staff to Belgian social security. These diplomatic sanctions would have made it possible to unblock this case. This local staff has therefore been subject to and has recovered rights, whether in terms of health care or pension coverage, to take only two issues that seem to me to be particularly important. However, it would appear that this is the only case where such sanctions have been applied. However, according to my information, many workers – and I only target local staff, i.e. Belgian workers and Belgian residents – are not subject to the ONSS, although this situation has been brought to the attention of the government on several occasions. First and foremost, it is a lack of social rights totally unacceptable for this local Belgian staff or these Belgian residents. It is also, it should be recalled, a loss of earnings in terms of social contributions. Minister, given the example of the Indonesian Embassy and the sanctions, I have no doubt that you are aware of this. I would therefore like to review this situation with you. Have you ever discussed this with your other government colleagues, the Minister of Employment, the Minister of Pensions and the Minister of Health? For the other embassies concerned which do not apply Belgian law, should we not consider diplomatic sanctions of the same kind? I hope that this type of question will make progress, especially the rights of these Belgian people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u81	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your interest in this matter, which has been in my department for quite a while. First of all, I confirm that by letter dated 5 December 2014 from the FPS Foreign Affairs Protocol Directorate, in the context of a social security dispute, measures have been taken against the Indonesian Embassy. Our Embassy in Jakarta, for its part, has taken the necessary steps on the spot with the authorities to resolve this problem. To remedy the difficulties of the kind mentioned, a committee on good offices was set up and confirmed by the publication of an inter-ministerial circular signed at the time by the Minister for Employment, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and European Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health on 31 May 2013. The Commission on Good Offices met for the first time on 3 July 2013. For the period September 2013 to December 2015, the Commission handled no fewer than 79 cases. During this period, several cases resulted from the latter's intervention. Our country is almost the only country in the world that has introduced such a mechanism. This committee is composed of members of the Directorate-General for the Control of Social Laws of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the Directorate for the Protocol of the SPF Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, the National Office for Social Security, the International Relations Directorate of the SPF Finance, the Directorate-General for Social Inspection of the SPF Social Security and representatives of trade union organizations. The Director General of Social Law Control is the Chairman of the Committee and the Deputy Head of the Protocol is the Vice-Chairman of the Committee. The main tasks of the Commission on Good Offices are to analyse disputes between diplomatic missions and consular posts recruited in Belgium and their employers, to render opinions in order to find amicable arrangements, to inform diplomatic missions and consular posts of their obligations and to make proposals to improve the working conditions of staff. This matter is taken very seriously by myself but also by my department as a whole. In addition to the day-to-day management of the litigation files by my administration, my administration has made a special effort to inform and train embassies, if necessary, about their obligations in this regard. Thus, in September 2015, the Protocol Directorate of the SPF Foreign Affairs organized a seminar for all embassies, consisting of an information session on social and fiscal legislation, entitled "Staff employed by diplomatic missions and by diplomats - Belgium's legal framework: to do and not to do". More than a hundred embassies were represented. In order to follow up with the embassies on 30 June, a new technical and very concrete seminar targeting the same public will be organized by the Protocol Directorate in collaboration with the Good Offices Commission. The theme will be "Staff employed by diplomatic missions and by diplomats - Belgium's social security framework: the must do". In September 2016, and always with the desire to improve the situation and to empower and raise awareness among the various actors, the Protocol Directorate will organize a seminar for the social secretariats. It is important to stress that immunity and privileges are expressly provided for in the 1961 Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic and Consular Relations of 1963, as well as in bilateral headquarters agreements between Belgium and various international organizations. This de facto limits the actions that can be undertaken by my department. The FPS Foreign Affairs has various means at its disposal to prevent disputes and help resolve them when they arise. The implementation of ad hoc measures is one of them which only occurs when all the others (e.g. exchanges of letters, mediation, etc.) clearly do not bear fruit. Bearing in mind, however, in particular the use of means of pressure on diplomatic missions, article 47 of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which enshrines the principle of reciprocity among States. This means in practice that even if our embassies abide by the laws in the countries where they are present, they could still be subjected to retaliatory measures. In this context, we are trying to implement all possible actions to first raise awareness of a number of diplomatic representations concerning the situation of their staff, but then, if necessary, move on to even more concrete actions. We have been able to deal with a lot of difficult situations in this context, but others have yet to evolve. However, there is an international framework linked to immunities and privileges which obviously does not depend exclusively on the Belgian situation. Belgium is, as I said to you, particularly at the cutting edge: we are probably the only country that has put in place a system of this magnitude to try to resolve individual situations in a number of diplomatic representations. We are the country that counts the city with the most diplomats in the world, it seems to me quite normal that we try to give a direction in this area that could be usefully followed by other partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u82	I knew this Commission of Good Offices well. Being at the forefront is one thing, but another is to close our eyes to a failure to comply with Belgian legislation, since I am talking well about the well-being of Belgian staff and residents: there is obviously an obligation to respect their legislation and regulations. Anything else would be to close your eyes for diplomatic reasons, since that's kind of what's going on. The State accepts fraud, non-compliance with the legislation. In my view, people's issues are not negligible. We still find ourselves facing people who leave the pension, whose career is complete and who ultimately find themselves without any rights, simply because the law has not been respected in the sight and knowledge of the State. I would also like to speak for a moment about the example of the Indonesian Embassy. Threats of withdrawal of privilege are surely a lever for embassies to put themselves in order. One could imagine a different type of mechanism than sanctions, i.e. a proactive mechanism. Thus, for example, the accreditation of ambassadors could be linked to strict compliance with Belgian legislation and law in this area. The Commission on Good Offices, inter alia, deals with disputes. You mentioned the figure of 79 files. However, this does not mean that embassies comply with this legislation. With regard to health care and health care coverage, this situation is totally unacceptable since the State admits de facto to cover fraud. In this regard, we should be able to be much stricter than we are at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u83	The incident is closed, but I think this file will come back to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u84	Mr President, Minister, Brazil has a number of problems. The first problem, of a political nature, is the future of President Dilma Rousseff. She is currently suspended during the 180 days of hearings in the Brazilian Senate and was temporarily replaced by the Vice President. At the same time, preparations are under way for the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games. However, this event faces a number of threats. In the meantime, the constructions have been much behind schedule. Several bays and beaches where sailing and swimming competitions take place are heavily polluted. A German sailor would have been infected with a carnivorous bacteria when tested. Pollution would be measured up to thirty thousand times above the permitted European values. Another researcher claims that a swimmer who gets three teaspoons of water is 99 percent sure to get some kind of infection. As a blow to the head, former footballer Rivaldo has called supporters not to come to Rio de Janeiro because of the high crime rates. As with the World Cup football, preparations for Rio 2016 are accompanied by large-scale police operations in slums. In April, a dozen people were killed in the favelas. According to Rivaldo, it's not safe in the Olympic city. How does the Belgian diplomatic post assess the security situation in Brazil at the time of the Games, given that it coincides with the hearings on the deposition of President Rousseff? How does Brazil communicate with the participating countries about the preparations for the Olympic Games and any precautions to be taken? In what way do Belgian diplomatic posts assist the Belgian delegation in Rio de Janeiro in the field of medical care and safety? That seems to be a hot item. How do they work with BOIC? How are our diplomatic posts preparing to assist the supporters in Rio de Janeiro, in terms of safety and medical care?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, the Brazilian authorities pay particular attention to the safety aspects of the Olympic Games. I do not believe that the government's change will have a negative impact on this. By the way, the Brazilian authorities have proven their ability to deal with such exceptional situations in the event of major events in the past, such as the World Cup in 2014 and the World Youth Days in 2013. The circumstances may not be the same as those of the economic recession, but the willingness and awareness on the part of the Brazilian authorities is very high and shows that, in their view, this issue remains a national priority. This has been repeated over the last few days. I therefore believe that the attention paid to the security aspects of that global event that is the Olympic Games is very important. The Brazilian authorities communicate well and adequately. My services are very pleased with the organisation of meetings on safety, medical assistance at the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games, the progress of infrastructure and so on. Water quality is the most worrying issue in terms of infrastructure preparation. However, the Olympic Organisation Committee stated in February 2016 that hygiene conditions will comply with international standards. Such a specific point, such as water quality, is given a lot of attention. The preparation of the consular assistance chapter for the Olympic Games began months ago. Files were vetted and a lot of specific information for athletes and visitors is in preparation, for example a flyer with practical information. Our position in Rio de Janeiro will be strengthened by almost all the diplomatic staff of our embassy in Brazil, to help if necessary. I repeat that it can be very useful, for all those who want to go to Rio de Janeiro, to register on our website travellersonline.diplomatie.be. Registration on that website makes it easy to stay in touch with all tourists and all possible visitors in Rio de Janeiro during the Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u86	Minister, I did not have so much a political problem as another government might not be able to handle it, but there have been some demonstrations in Rio de Janeiro in recent weeks. If there is any more commotion, it is important that this exceptional situation is properly monitored. I have not yet mentioned the Zika virus, which can also be found nearby. I do believe, as you also say, that the biggest problem is water. We are not talking about a small pool that needs to be purified, but about an ocean. I think they have a lot of work ahead of them to get that right. I wish every success to the athletes who leave there and have fun for the supporters. I hope that, thanks to the support of our diplomatic post there, they will all return safely and safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-25-54-commissie-ic429x.u87	We had agreed to stop around 17:30. It's exactly 5:30.
