ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the three ministers present will each give an introduction. I shall then give the floor to the various political groups, as the tradition in this House wishes. In a first round, each group will be allocated 10 minutes, and the political groups will decide on how many speakers will be allocated 10 minutes. Together with my co-chairs, I will keep a close eye on time, so I would ask all speakers to stick strictly to the time limit. After that first round, there will be a reply from the ministers to the questions asked. If necessary, we can organize a second round. Can everyone agree to this method?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u2	Mr President, I would like to know more about the order of business. I don't know if this meeting will last a long time. In any case, I am not sure that we will exhaust all the questions we are asking ourselves today. Therefore, can this meeting continue during the Easter holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that after this meeting there will be a Conference of Presidents. It will decide on the continuation of the work and the timing of any meetings. Neither you nor I can decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u4	Mr President, the committees also have a say, even if the last word is for the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u5	It's not the last word, it's the first word he owns. I'm sorry, but neither you nor I can change that principle. I propose to stop this kind of discussion and give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like once again to point out that our thoughts go to all the families, friends and acquaintances of the victims of the attacks on Tuesday. Like previous attacks inside and outside Europe, this attack was devastating and extremely brutal, with the sole aim of sowing fear and panic. These terrorist acts affect all of us as citizens, and collectively as democracy. So we have no choice but to act firmly to fight terror together. My colleague, Minister Geens, will develop the judicial aspect of this case. I shall now turn to the record of the attacks, the security measures we have taken and the aspect of a connection with Turkey with regard to a specific case. The results of the attacks on Zaventem and the Maelbeek metro are terrible. They cost the lives of 31 people. Currently, 150 people are still being treated in various hospitals across the country; 61 of them are still in intensive care. The identification of the deceased is very difficult. We want to be absolutely certain of the identity of the victims before we can confirm them. Family members seeking information on victims not on hospital lists are received at a reception centre in Neder-Over-Heembeek, where they can obtain additional information and support. Ladies and gentlemen, let me outline the facts. At 07:58 there were two explosions in the departure hall of the airport of Zaventem. Immediately after the explosions in Zaventem, the federal policy cell was called together at the National Crisis Centre. Priority attention was given to medical assistance and evacuation of the affected area. According to the incoming information, two explosions had taken place in the airport's check-in area and several deaths and injuries had already occurred. Taking into account the risk of a third explosion, the evacuation was carried out as soon as possible. Through FEB-alert, general increased vigilance was immediately called for. All public transport companies as well as the private sector were informed and sensitised. The policy cell consists of representatives of several competent ministers and services: the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Health and, given the location of the attacks, also the Minister of Mobility, the Prime Minister of the Brussels Capital Region and the Governor of Flemish Brabant, the Federal Prosecutor, the Attorney General, the Commissioner General of the Federal Police, the Administrator General of the State Security, the General Director of the Crisis Centre, the Director of the OCAD and the Public Health Office. At 09:04 OCAD level 4 announced for the whole country. The mission was to evacuate the metro stations and the five train stations in Brussels and to close them to the public. Based on the information already known at 9:05 p.m., the federal phase of crisis management was proclaimed, which means activating the national emergency plan for a terrorist attack. This emergency plan was drawn up jointly by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Specific to this contingency plan is the close cooperation between the administrative and judicial levels. The Crisis Centre set up an information cell with spokesmen from the various departments concerned under the National Emergency Plan. The emergency number 1771 was opened to the public, as with level 4 in November, this happened at 09:40. Before that, however, an emergency number specific to the situation in Zaventem was already in use. At 09:11 the explosion followed at Maalbeek station, in a metrostel towards Kunst-Wet/Arts-Loi. The people were asked not to move and stay where they were at the time, in order to allow the aid and security services to carry out their work properly. The above-ground public transport system was also shut down, as was rail traffic in the three major Brussels railway stations. At the same time, the Communities were asked to keep the pupils in and to cancel planned departures or excursions. The STIB network was completely evacuated, closed and secured by police and military. Public health reported on full deployment of ambulances and activation of emergency plans in hospitals. The military contingent was raised by 300 troops to support the various services of the integrated police. Also the quick reaction forces were replaced together with the special units of the federal police and three additional DOVO teams were on standby. Local police were asked to keep their capacity at maximum ready and deploy for security and surveillance orders. It was then decided to have border controls carried out immediately by the integrated police and customs authorities in order to be able to intercept any fugitive offenders. A little before 11 o'clock, Zaventem's operational cell provided the following information: all persons were evacuated and the affected departure hall was further investigated. Based on the taxi driver's statements and the initial findings, at least one perpetrator would be on the run, possibly with a suitcase of explosives. Around 12:42 we were informed of the finding of a third bomb trap that would be neutralized by DOVO. At the end of the period of acute crisis, the government decided not to decree a general lockdown. Instead, those who wished to leave Brussels were able to leave, but in a controlled manner. At about 4 p.m., the railway stations were reopened quickly, but with appropriate safety instructions. Traffic has been restored on a few metro lines and fourteen of the sixty-nine metro stations have again opened their doors. The parents were then able to find their children safely in the schools. The government has deliberately chosen not to give in to panic or fear. We hope that our fellow citizens and visitors to our country will soon be able to return to the normal course of their lives. A period of national mourning was decreed out of respect for the victims and their relatives. In the National Security Council the same afternoon, just before 6:00 p.m., a decision was taken to allow mixed patrols of police and military forces to be able to provide maximum protection for the so-called soft targets. The appropriate security measures for the coming days were agreed and prepared to ensure maximum security of public transport, airports, nuclear sites and the port of Antwerp, accompanied by a gradual opening up of public transport. A further 100 additional military forces were deployed to support the integrated police in their security and surveillance tasks. After a new analysis of the OCAD, the threat level was reduced to 3 again last night. I can't stress it enough: threat level 3 is not the normal state. I know that we have been in this situation for a long time since the attacks in Paris, but this is a high level of threat. The definition of level 3 is the following: the situation is serious, without any concrete indications. That is the difference with level 4, where there are concrete indications of place and time. The reduction in the threat level will, among other things, avoid systematic searches at the entrance to train and metro stations. Of course, our emergency and security services remain extremely alert. As far as Zaventem airport is concerned, due to the enormous structural damage to the building, the airport will remain closed for a few days. Flights are distracted as much as possible to our regional airports. Colleagues, the above shows that the emergency services have done a tremendously good job. All emergency services were quickly on site and have done their utmost to accompany or care for victims. The presence of the police forces and the military who were already on the scene has also enabled them to intervene quickly to assist, assist and keep the curious at bay. Now we know that, regarding the international network of violent extremists and their displacement, we must act together to fight terror. The Belgian Government is making every effort and has made every effort to prevent atrocious events similar to those on Tuesday. In this context, information is crucial. It is imperative that not only the various security services and police areas, but also international partners share their information. A good sharing of correct intelligence must enable us to anticipate the actions of these terrorists. During the Committee on Terrorism, in which I have just participated, I have submitted with my colleague Geens a bill aimed, among other things, at creating a database of foreign terrorist fighters. Therefore, I hope that this text will soon be approved by Parliament. Our passenger data bill (Passengers Name Record or PNR) has been completed and will soon be presented to Parliament. It will allow us to map the routes taken by suspects within and outside the European Union. Unfortunately, however, we still have to wait for the Union to ratify the directive in this area. I therefore urged my European counterparts to deal with it as quickly as possible in the European Parliament. External border controls are particularly important in the fight against terrorism. I also invited my counterparts to close this file as soon as possible. I also stressed the need for closer cooperation with the Counterterrorism Center of Europol. Ladies and gentlemen, you will undoubtedly have questions about what was in the newspapers this morning regarding the Chief Constable of Mechelen. I will not be able to make a statement on this matter myself today. You have read that this is currently being examined by the P Committee and I trust that they will carry out an in-depth investigation. I am waiting for that result. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the flow of information with Turkey, there are undoubtedly pressing questions. I would like to go over the timeline with you, with the information we have at our disposal today, from the moment that the person concerned, Ibrahim El Bakraoui, is located in Turkey. Prior to that, a hatch, in which he was convicted, was released early, had to present himself in the courthouse and the like. My colleague, Minister Geens, will explain this later. I leave from the point when Ibrahim El Bakraoui arrives in Turkey. This will be done on 11 June 2015. On that day he was arrested in Turkey, in Gaziantep in particular. Gaziantep is a village on the Turkish-Syrian border. On June 11, he was arrested and arrested by the Turks on the Turkish-Syrian border. All of these data are in 2015, but I will not repeat it over and over again. On 26 June, our L.O.O., our liaison officer, our policeman present in Turkey, will be informed of this by the Turkish national police. Three days later, on 29 June, the LO reports this to the DJSOC. The DJSOC is the department of the judicial police involved in the fight against serious crime. Specifically, it concerns the cell TERRO. I will not explain these names all the time; they will come back. To the DJSOC the LO reports that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was arrested by the police. The DJSOC returns information and reports to the LO that Ibrahim El Bakraoui has a judicial history and was sentenced to ten years. The DJSOC asks for information from the LO about El Bakraoui and asks why he was arrested. That happened between 26 and 29 June. Then we'll skip straight to July 14th. On 14 July, at 10 a.m. 14, Turkey will send a verbal note to the Belgian embassy that Ibrahim El Bakraoui will be sent out of the country to destination the Netherlands, via a flight leaving at 10 a.m. 40 that same day. That's at 10:14. A fax will be arriving later today, if I am not mistaken at 2:30 p.m. That fax will then be processed at the embassy, which will be passed on to the LO. This is at 16:30; then the Belgian embassy informs the liaison officer (LO). On the next day, July 15, the LO, at a meeting with the Turkish police, learned that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was arrested for terror, but that he had to send a written question for more details. The assistant of the LO then informs the Belgian embassy at 10:38 that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was arrested in Gaziantep and at 10:50 the LO Belgium informs the LO Netherlands. We're talking July 15th, the day after he was already sent back. Then there is an information from our LO in Turkey to the LO Netherlands in Turkey. Between 29 June and 20 July, no communication took place between the LO and DJSOC. It is not until July 20th, at 10:30 in the morning, that the LO informs DJSOC that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was arrested for terror and that he was sent to the Netherlands on a flight on July 14th. He also says he's waiting for more information from the Turks in connection with the arrest. After this, more precisely at 11:25, the LO asks the official question to the Turkish police by e-mail. So, on 15 July, the Turkish police tell him to ask for additional information in writing. On 20 July, the LO shall request that written information. Four more meetings will then take place between the LO and the Turkish authorities. I can give you the dates: 28 July, 10 November, 8 December and 14 February, with no further information on Ibrahim El Bakraoui. On 11 January, six months after the departure of our good friend, the LO has an answer to his official question to the Turkish police. Turkey's response is that Ibrahim El Bakraoui is suspected of having a commitment to the conflict zone. This is the chronology. When I tried to draw up this timeline myself on Wednesday evening, and I finally got this result off the bus, even after a meeting with the federal police, I could only conclude that not one service or one board, but at least one person, had been negligent, had not been very proactive and engaged in a file in which one senses from the very first moment that it is about terrorism. It's about someone who's been convicted for ten years, spent a few years in prison and then travels, through Turkey, to the border of Syria. One should not be active for long in the terrorist case to conclude that there is a very high probability of being 90 or 99 %, just fill in the fact that one has to deal with a foreign fighter. If I conclude, then, that between 26 June, when we are informed, and 20 July, nothing substantive has happened by the LO, then I think I am responsible for the police... one can discuss whether he was acting in a judicial or administrative capacity at the time; that is a discussion à côté de la plaque. That night I said, shouldn't I take responsibility? It has nothing to do with guilt, it has everything to do with political responsibility. There's no service here, no management, no police equipment, but one person in the police department is screwed up. That was my first analysis. On the basis of that analysis, I went to offer my resignation to the Prime Minister on the basis of these facts. After long talks, the Prime Minister told me that we are in the middle of a fight against terror and that he cannot miss me now. He asked me to consider withdrawing that resignation. This had nothing to do with communication games, this had nothing to do with strategic communication; it had everything to do with responsibility. One must consider in one's own conscience where one's responsibility lies. What's the best way to deal with this? I can tell you that, in the meantime, our services are in the process of looking at the appropriate progress in this respect, as regards the person in question. Ladies and gentlemen, it was my honest conviction, Wednesday evening, to send a signal that things have happened here that, as far as I am concerned, when one is committed to the fight against terrorism, cannot. I wanted to take the consequences of that. I have been persuaded by the Prime Minister to move forward, perhaps with even more conviction than before, to ensure that such matters can no longer happen in my organisation. People need to know, when it comes to terror, that they have to walk at the top of the peloton and not keep waiting on their desks for communication. I will be much more convinced than ever before in this terrorist case and ensure that such matters do not occur in our organisation anymore. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to give the floor to Mr Geens on the legal side of events.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u7	Ministers have agreed that Minister Reynders will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u8	Mr President, I would obviously like to join the Minister of the Interior in expressing our sympathy with the victims and their families. As far as my department is concerned, since we became aware of the attacks, the first step has obviously been to turn to all foreign embassies and colleagues in an attempt to disseminate accurate information as soon as possible on victims of foreign nationality. The demands have come in large numbers. More than forty nationalities are affected by these attacks. I have, of course, received messages of support and sympathy from a very large number of colleagues, authorities and multilateral organisations around the world; I am not going to list them all here. I would like to focus on a few elements confirming the chronology that has just been mentioned about Turkey. First of all, in a few words, I will talk to you about the context of our relations with Turkey, which is a partner in the Atlantic Alliance and is also an important interlocutor in the framework of the European Union, with which we are conducting sometimes difficult but crucial discussions at this time, as we have seen at the last European Council on the issues of refugees, visas and even possible accession negotiations. At the same time, we are concerned about Turkey's progress towards an authoritarian regime, particularly with regard to freedom of the press and freedom of expression. We have expressed these concerns and will continue to do so. There is also the Kurdish question: the truce has been broken and hostilities have resumed between the PKK and the Turkish armed forces, with a high level of violence. We call for a return to the political negotiation process. Turkey is also confronted with terrorism and in particular blames Belgium for not making sufficient efforts to combat the PKK and DHKPC on its territory. In this regard, our Ambassador has recently been convened on the occasion of events around the European Council. But we maintain our call for dialogue and we have our own assessment of the situation. It is in this difficult context that we are trying to conduct a dialogue in order to allow operational cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the phenomenon of foreign fighters in particular, which is of crucial importance, given the geographical situation of Turkey. This is how we went together with my colleagues from Justice and the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, in Ankara from 8 to 10 March, for a tri-alternative meeting focusing in particular on the exchange of information. I'm coming to March 23rd. On 23 March, at 2 p.m., our ambassador in Ankara sent us the following report by e-mail. Je lis: "I inform you for the record that Ibrahim El Bakraoui, Belgian born on 9 October 1986 and one of the identified perpetrators of the attack in Brussels, was deported on 14 July 2015 by the Turkish authorities via the Netherlands (Amsterdam), Pegasus PC671 fled at 10:40, after his previous arrest in Gaziantep. The Turkish authorities informed us the same day (14 July 2015) as well as the Dutch embassy. The information was passed to the federal police in illo tempora by our liaison officer, who reconfirmed this to me today." My services have forwarded this information to the Prime Minister following President Erdogan's statements. But my services also contacted the embassy in Ankara for more details. This is what we can establish. The Turkish Federal Police Liaison Officer, who is stationed in Istanbul, was informed on 26 June 2015 by Turkish police of the arrest of Ibrahim El Brakraoui in Gaziantep. As the Minister of the Interior recalled, he informed the Belgian Federal Police. A note dated 14 July 2015, at 10.15 a.m., was placed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the electronic portal, which serves as an official channel of communication with the diplomatic missions in Ankara, which use a password to access this site. This note, written in Turkish, informs the Embassy that El Bakraoui is expelled to Amsterdam on a flight leaving at 10:40 a.m. that same day, without mentioning the grounds for deportation. A similar note was placed on the portal for the attention of the Embassy of the Netherlands. You will certainly have learned that yesterday there was also a debate in the Netherlands about this transmission of information. I will make a brief reading of a letter from the Minister of Security and Justice to the Second Chamber of the States General. I quote: On 14 July 2015 at 10 a.m. 14 a note was posted on the electronic portal of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the electronic mailbox of the Dutch embassy in Ankara. In this note, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports that for a German national and Belgian Ibrahim El Bakraoui a flight was facilitated from Sabiha Gokçen Airport to Holland/Amsterdam on 14 July 2015 at 10 am 40 with Pegasus Airlines. Furthermore, the note does not provide any substantive information or explanation on the background to facilitating the flight. Nor is it being asked to take any action. The note plus the translation made today by the Dutch embassy are attached to this letter for information. A similar note relating to the flight was also placed on the portal in the mailboxes of the German and Belgian authorities. The German note contained the information on the German national and was posted there on 13 July 2015. No further information may be given on the German national at the request of the German authorities. The Belgian note contained information about the Belgian national and was posted on the portal on 14 July 2015. The procedure followed in this particular case differs from the usual practice of direct communication between police forces. According to the usual practice, Turkey's police services are in contact with the police liaison when an expulsion is involved. Only in a limited number of cases has the electronic portal been used in addition to direct contact via the police line. For example, from mid-2013 six reports of eviction were placed in the portal. Of those six reports, five were also reported directly to the liaison via the police line. The only person not reported directly concerns the present case. By way of indication, in 2015 about forty reports of expulsion and return via the police line were reported to the Dutch police liaison. In the case of direct police reports, Turkish authorities always give an explanation when these terrorism or radicalisation are related. The portal is a web platform created by the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs for each country separately primarily as a means of communication for normal messaging traffic. If a message is urgent, you can only create it after opening the message. From the portal you can't read whether or not the messages have been read. The liaisons of the National Police, the Royal Marechaussee and the Immigration and Naturalization Service report, on request, that they did not see the relevant note at the time. We will once again urge the Turkish authorities to share these messages with the police liaison directly and in good time. This is simply to show you the correspondence between the two approaches to Belgium and the Netherlands and the methods used to carry out the transfer of information. On 14 July 2015, at around 2.30 p.m., our embassy receives a fax from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs transmitting the same information. On July 14, 2015, at 4:26 p.m., the Embassy sends the content of this fax by e-mail to the Federal Police Liaison Officer. The follow-up was explained by the Minister of the Interior. I would point out that the Embassy does not have any files concerning Ibrahim El Bakraoui until these elements are present. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Police Liaison Officer is attached to the Embassy and is under the diplomatic authority of the Chief of Post, but reports to the Internal FPS at the operational level. Our Ambassador is of course at the disposal of Parliament to supplement this information if necessary, including new documents that would now be circulated by the Turkish authorities. Thus, the Turkish press reported a second refoulement of Ibrahim El Bakraoui in August 2015. Our embassy doesn't know about it. This, Mr President, is what I can give you as a substantiation of the transfer of information to the liaison officer located in Istanbul and dependent diplomatically on our ambassador, but who obviously immediately relayed this information to his direction to the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u9	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u10	Mr President, since this is the first time for me since the tragic events of 22 March that I have had the opportunity to address the representatives of the people, I would like to express my deep sympathy with all the victims and survivors of the cowardly attacks that have hit our country so much. My thoughts go out to the deceased, the many innocent victims who fight for their lives and their neighbors. We carry them in our hearts. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the emergency services that have carried out miracles in these difficult circumstances. Many thousands of people, professionals and citizens, who have often volunteered, day and night, deserve nothing but praise. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the intelligence and security services and to the judicial services. They operate under immense pressure, not the least of the political world. I look at myself in the first place. It is not easy to empathy for the immense suffering that the victims must suffer and at the same time to have sufficient appreciation for what our services do before, during and after the facts. If we fail to do so, I humbly ask for an apology. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the pressure on our intelligence and security services has increased considerably since the emergence of foreign terror fighters in 2012. Let me briefly outline the operations and attacks of the past few months. I will then provide in some detail information about the attacks on Tuesday and the El Bakraoui brothers, about whom there were so many words and words in the press. The horrific attacks in Paris on 13 November, as well as the subsequent investigation, revealed clear links with our country. On this basis, the Federal Prosecutor decided to open a separate investigation into the Belgian aspect of the Paris bombings. A Brussels lockdown was then decided, which was maintained for a number of days for obvious reasons. The French and Belgian investigating judges and investigators, as well as the intelligence services of both countries, worked hand in hand to advance the investigation as much as possible and as quickly as possible. The investigation has progressed. Since November 14, 2015, more than 100 searches have been carried out, 58 people have been arrested in the context of the investigation of the attacks, and 23 people are still involved in related files. Mr Jambon and I took part yesterday in the European Council on the Interior, on which a number of Justice Ministers were also present. After that, journalists, with great scepticism, asked me what Europe is doing. I have to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that despite all the Euroscepticism that has always been repeated and probably not without reason, a number of fellow Members from European countries have not only come to express their condolences, but have also given very concrete information and information about the arrests that have taken place in their countries in the aftermath of the events in Vorst, Zaventem and Maalbeek stations. We cannot therefore say that we and the neighbouring countries are not trying to cooperate in these matters as well as possible. Yesterday, I was personally touched by the details of the knowledge of our foreign colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department, and by the extent to which they sympathise with what is happening to us. In the Joint Investigation Team of Paris and Brussels, with the federal parquet of Belgium and the parquet of Paris, a building was found in the Driesstraat in Vorst, where a search took place on 15 March. As you know, several policemen were slightly injured and one terrorist was killed by a sniper of the Special Forces, who was later identified as Mohamed Belkaid. This man of Algerian nationality stayed illegally in our country and was only known for a fact of theft in 2014. Apparently, he covered the retreat of two accomplices who fled. Later in the same apartment, besides the fingerprints of Salah Abdeslam and weapons and ammunition, a false Syrian passport registered to Monir Ahmed Alaaj and a false Belgian identity card registered to Amine Choukri were also found. This so-called Amine Choukri was previously checked on 3 October 2015 in the company of Salah Abdeslam in Ulm, Germany. During this check, Choukri's fingerprints were taken. They were later also found in the hiding place used by the terrorist group in Auvelais in the province of Namur. This shelter, where a search was carried out on 26 November 2015, was rented under the false identity of Sofiane Kayal. Kayal, Abdeslam and a companion who travelled with a false Belgian identity card in the name of Samir Bouzid were checked on 9 September 2015 at the border between Hungary and Austria. The investigation has shown that the named Soufiane Kayal can be identified as being Najim Laachraoui, who had left for Syria in February 2013. Samir Bouzid was also more than likely identified as Mohamed Belkaid, the man who was neutralized by the special forces on March 15 during the search in Vorst. Two days later, on 18 March, three fortified searches were carried out in Brussels. Two of them turned out to be negative, but in the Vierwindenstraat in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek Salah Abdeslam was arrested together with Monir Ahmed Alaaj alias Amine Choukri. The correct identity of the latter could not yet be traced. Three members of the family who housed Abdeslam were also deprived of their freedom. The following day, on 19 March, Choukri and Abdeslam were suspected of participating in terrorist murder and in the activities of a terrorist organisation. We knew that the arrest of Salah Abdeslam had not put an end to the terrorist threat, far from it, but it was a positive moment, unfortunately far too brief. Four days later, Brussels and the national airport were the targets of cowardly terrorist attacks that sowed death and destruction and plunged the country into national mourning and unbelief. Belgium and Brussels are still in shock; bruised but not shot. This demonstrates the admirable and supportive response of our people. Allow me to provide you with the information we have at the judicial level for the time being with regard to these attacks. I'll give you the details that I have, given the secrecy of the investigation. On Tuesday, 22 March, two coordinated terrorist attacks were carried out. The first in Zaventem, the second, about an hour later, in the Brussels metro. An investigation was immediately initiated by the anti-terrorist section of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and three investigating judges specializing in terrorism were appointed. The images taken by the internal cameras at Zaventem airport then identified the three suspects. Two of them were wearing a glove in their left hand, suggesting that they were hiding a detonator. It is therefore more than likely that they committed the suicide bombings. The third man is suspected of abandoning a suitcase full of explosives. Fortunately, they could not be triggered. This man is obviously the subject of intensive research. In the meantime, one of the suicide bombers has been identified as Ibrahim El Bakraoui, Khalid El Bakraoui's brother, who blew himself up in the Brussels metro at the time the train was travelling from Maelbeek station to Arts-Loi station. The other, his brother Ibrahim El Bakroui, also has a criminal background. Khalid, like Ibrahim, has been a collimator of the intelligence and security services since the Paris bombings. It was this man who rented the house on Rue du Dries in Forest under a false name. Of course, we need to check that all available information has been properly processed and shared. I will come back to that later, but first I would like to say something about both brothers, Ibrahim and Khalid El Bakraoui. Ibrahim El Bakraoui was taken into custody on 30 January 2010 for the facts of an armed robbery in the gang. He was sentenced by judgment of 1 March 2011 by the Brussels appeal court to ten years in prison. Ibrahim El Bakraoui asked for three exit permits to start a psychological counseling. Those were rejected twice by the central penitentiary administration after a positive opinion from the prison management, and once the last time by the Turtelboom cabinet, after positive advice from the prison management and the central administration. By judgment of 20 January 2014, the Brussels Criminal Court granted him the night-to-day permits. The criminal execution court was apprehended by the sentenced person for the granting of electronic surveillance or a conditional release, but the criminal execution court ruled that he had to pass six night-out permits for two months first. The six night tickets went through correctly. On 12 May 2014, the Criminal Enforcement Court (SURB) provided him with an electronic oversight, following a brief negative opinion from the prison director, mainly because of the risk of recidivism. In addition to the traditional prohibition conditions, he had to continue his psychological guidance, work or follow a training course. The electronic surveillance was flawless, giving the person concerned a conditional release by judgment of 20 October 2014, again after a negative opinion from the prison director. In view of the fact that the person concerned was subject to psychological supervision during the period of electronic surveillance and that, according to the report of the psychologist, it was no longer useful over time, the criminal court ruled that ordinary social assistance by the courthouse, including work, training and care, was sufficient, in addition to the prohibition to alarm the victims and the prohibition to enter the street where the facts took place. Ibrahim El Bakraoui cooperated fairly well with his supervision by the Brussels Courthouse. However, since the meeting on 19 May 2015, the judicial assistant has not seen or heard from him. She sent an e-mail on 16 June 2015 and on 23 June 2015 to confirm a new appointment on 26 June 2015. We now know why Ibrahim El Bakraoui did not go into that. He was arrested in Turkey at the time. The courthouse tried to make a new appointment on 29 June 2015, evidently again in vain. On 2 July, the courthouse sent the report that the person concerned did not respond and was untraceable to the criminal execution court. On 21 August 2015, Ibrahim El Bakraoui was sentenced to parole and was arrested after a few days. If you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to turn to the second offender, the brother Khalid El Bakraoui, because their history is important and their convergence explains a number of things. Khalid El Bakraoui was sentenced to five years imprisonment by the Brussels Correctional Court for an armed robbery in the gang on 3 February 2011. He applied for two penitentiary leave in prison, on 28 February 2012 and on 9 November 2012. The prison director gave a positive opinion, the central administration a negative decision. He applied for an exit permit once, on 7 February 2013. The prison director gave a positive opinion, the central administration refused. From 13 May 2013, the Penal Court of Bergen granted him electronic supervision, following a negative opinion from the prison director. On 6 January 2014, he was granted a conditional release, again after a negative advice for minimising the facts and insufficient cooperation with the psychosocial service. The two-year probation period ran until 6 January 2016. This means that this man was paroled at 11 months before the end of the sentence. In other words, he has received more than four fifths of his sentence, including the detention. It is not customary, ladies and gentlemen, for a Minister of Justice to explain in detail exactly what happened to these people. If I give all the details, it is by no means because I would question the correctness of the decisions taken by the criminal court. That is by no means the case. I'm just trying to explain as clearly as possible exactly what happened. I am also trying to make it clear that, for example, Khalid served more than four fifths of his sentence. The fact that he has been correctly followed up by the Court of Justice, although that no longer falls within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, will also be reflected in what I am about to say. One of the conditions imposed on him by the criminal court was a restraining order with accomplices or ex-convicts. He violated that condition once on 13 May 2015. After all, he was intercepted by car in a one-way street and was accompanied by someone who was convicted. That was a ban imposed on him. That's why he was apprehended for the time being by the King's Attorney of Bergen, but Bergen's criminal court ruled that he could leave prison after three days. After all, he did comply with his other conditions and according to the report of the judicial assistant, his probation was going well. From the two reports of the Justice Houses, I note that he complied with his conditions until 22 October 2015. Only on 17 December 2015 did he no longer appear with the judicial assistant. His parole was revoked by the court in Bergen on 18 February 2016 after being subpoenaed by the King's Attorney General. In that context, he was already internationally terminated for the purpose of arrest after withdrawal. Now that we have reviewed the criminal and criminal history of the brothers, I would like to return to the file of the signaling and the judicial police, to provide you with some additional information. As Mr Reynders and Mr Jambon said earlier, it is only in 2016 - on 11 January - that we should be clear from the Turkish services what exactly was going on with Ibrahim El Bakraoui. As Mr Jambon said, we had reduced this from his presence in Gaziantep, but it was only at that time that it was passed on. However, Ibrahim ended up in the international signalling chain faster than that, because Khalid, who ran a perfect court trail until October-November 2015, unexpectedly got involved in the attacks in Paris. Because at that time, on 11 December 2015, in the aftermath of Paris and the Joint Investigation Team, an arrest warrant was issued for Khalid and Khalid for Schengen was terminated under Article 26, it was considered interesting to try to track Ibrahim too, much more active than before. Maybe that way, through Ibrahim, one could get to Khalid. On January 12th 2016, Ibrahim will receive a discreet control signal and a blue notice will be sent to Interpol, where our justice services are the very best to pass on information. We have a track record in that respect that we are envyed by many in Europe, and many other things that probably do not envy us. I would like to point out briefly that both the legal history and the follow-up to it, although that is not my competence, and the signal given by the gentlemen, has happened in an orderly manner, especially as soon as it was known that Khalid was unexpectedly involved in terrorism after Paris. Mr President, I would naturally like to return to that in the answers later. However, I would like to say the following: if everyone had been perfect, it cannot be ruled out that a number of things could have been different in relation to these two gentlemen, but their history is not as negative as it is proposed these days. I have more details for fellow Members who would like to ask questions about this. I do not want to bore them any further with all kinds of data, but I want to say that I will continue to defend our judicial authorities and our intelligence and security services. At the same time, it will not stop me from scrupling about whether something would have gone wrong. It is time for transparency and introspection, but also for vigorous action, unity and efficiency. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u11	My fellow Members will now have the floor, 10 minutes per group, by dividing the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u12	Presidents, Ministers, thank you for your explanation. What happened this week defies the imagination of each of us. It affects us, as a society, by the degradation of our values, but also as a human being, as a mom, as a daddy. I'm thinking of the footage of the crying child on the subway or the boy at the airport calling "Mama". That won't let us go. We cannot imagine what that should do to the people in the middle, who are victims or family members of one of them. Here in this Chamber, we cannot even begin to imagine this. It affects us as legislators, as politicians. That's why we're here today. As legislative politicians, we are signing here the system within which our services must function and in which solutions to social and other problems must be provided. It is precisely from this context that it is essential that we all agree on this to know very precisely what has happened or has not happened. What went wrong? Who? What? Where? How? A number of questions have already been answered, but many remain. Every stone must be reversed, without any taboo about personal failure, misjudgement, structural failure or system failure. The consequences were certainly disastrous and the facts oblige us to get to the bottom of it. We owe this to the victims, their families and ourselves, within the task we have, because we are still the architects of the legislative system, of our rule of law. We all are. I look at everyone around me. We are all together, across all parties, different governments and regions. We're the architect, and we're in charge. It is a bit like construction, Mr President: a contractor can make mistakes just as an agent can, or a liaison officer can, or a court can, or a parquet floor. It's the architect who signed the plan and that plan should be good. When a plan allows a personal failure or a mistake, we have to make the exercise, because perhaps our plan was not good enough and then we have to cope with it in this institution, in this Chamber. I think it is very important that the mistakes are made today. Most of it's been done. We're gonna have to figure that out. Then what should we do, ladies and gentlemen, when we have made the mistakes? Then we must also offer solutions. A great deal has been said in recent hours and days about political responsibility. If you ask me, there it is, the political responsibility, in providing solutions. That is the only thing that benefits the victims and their families today, not the passing of black pits or whatever, but solutions. We need to change our plan so that facts such as those that have occurred can no longer repeat themselves. Otherwise, we won't do anything better than we used to. It is time to put your hands together, without taboos, all together. It is not that nothing has happened yet, Mr President. In recent years, a number of things have happened. I'm thinking about Terro one, fighting is now a criminal offence. That was approved just too late for these facts, for these people. It was our last feat here last summer, though. We've approved that. We've already closed that hole. So it's not like this wasn't being worked on. The Chamber has already assumed responsibility. Working on sharing information by sharing data, that process is in full swing. Databases are being prepared and the reform of justice is in full swing. The potpourri on the execution is coming up. The Counter-Terrorism Committee will hopefully adopt a number of important drafts next week that can provide solutions. So there is no sitting still, the architect is working on the house. Now it's a matter of working together and gearing up. We're gonna have to close all those other holes, too. We must also ask ourselves certain questions, question matters and dare to answer the questions. I am thinking, for example, of the Lejeune Act. Do we really still think it is normal for people with a certain palmares, with a lot of crimes on the stick, who have walked around with kalashnikovs, to be released after four years? Do we really still think that's normal as a society? Can we really continue to tolerate that? Every time something happens, the Lejeune Act gets honked. When are we gonna do something about it? I call on this Chamber to revise that. I am also looking at the Minister in the context of his potpourri IV. Our group believes that it is important that something should finally be done about this, and you can rest assured that this will be understood as entanglements. Let us also look at proceedings before criminal courts. Should we not better support these services? They make very important decisions, even in these cases. Do they not deserve more support and information? Furthermore, how do we deal with the control of the execution of sentences? Do the parquet magistrates who have to follow that up have the necessary resources? Can they do that? By what means? Justice assistants? Shouldn't we look into that? We are already working on it, but I believe that these events should encourage us to speed up and adjust it. We insist on that. I have a few specific questions. I will take care of the legal part and my fellow Members will intervene on the police side and on foreign affairs. Mr Minister of Justice, you have just explained what happened to the criminal courts. I'm just trying to understand everything, just like everyone else. How exactly was that information shared? How did that work? You explained what conditions were imposed on Ibrahim El Bakraoui. He was allowed to go abroad? There is the separation of powers. At the time when the criminal court took its decision, you were a minister for nine days, I think, so you have not had much of a grasp on that. I want to know the reasons for the criminal court to depart from negative opinions. Can we have a debate on this? We need to understand why that happened. I'd also like to know if the person concerned had a criminal record. Was he a recidivist or not? Also important, you said that there hasn't been so much error in signaling. However, the person concerned did not show up at his legal assistant anymore. Why didn't he get his e-mails back then? Shouldn't we be able to do something like that right now? Isn't there a hole here that we're supposed to shut down? Would it not be better if, as soon as a judicial assistant finds that someone does not show up, the report did not have to wait or wait for an initiative from the prosecutor or from the criminal court, but could signal it immediately? Can we all close those holes? Did that happen or not? If not, why didn't that happen? How can we solve all this? The other questions will be put by my fellow Members. A ten-minute time frame is very short for so many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u13	The other members of the N-VA have three minutes left to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u14	Mr President, Ministers, I will be very brief. It is our job as MEPs to make our democracy sufficiently workable. We can never completely rule out terrorism. Privacy is an important fundamental right, but like Professor De Ruyver, I believe that the creation of a fingerprint database does not infringe the right to privacy and that the right to security should prevail. No one can deny that decades ago wrong policy decisions were taken which now have disastrous consequences. The current federal government has made security its priority and has already taken many measures. More than 400 million is invested in various security services. A number of investments have already been made on the ground. I am thinking, for example, of catching up with technological backwardness. I am also thinking of what happened in Verviers, where the special units did not have helmets and bulletproof vests; they had to borrow them abroad, but that's all right now. The number of terrorist trials has doubled over the past year. The searches after the attacks in Paris and the arrest of Salah Abdeslam show that the operation and cooperation between the security services are more on the line than before. However, the attacks in Zaventem and Brussels prove that there is still a lot of work to be done. I am convinced that the analysis carried out in the framework of the police key tasks debate is a major step in the right direction. However, change does not happen from today to tomorrow. We will have to step up our efforts, including with regard to the merger of police zones. After all, community-oriented police care was aimed at being a necessary information. However, the division of the territory into then 196 and now 189 zones does not have the desired effect. In this area too, we still have to step up our efforts. For the Brussels-Capital Region, too, we are in favour of merging the six police zones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time for us to think very carefully about the current organisation of our police work and to reduce the number of zones. A repressive approach will not suffice. Integration and a strengthened society are, of course, also necessary. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to reduce the risk of terrorism to zero. However, we owe it to our fellow citizens, our country and our international community to minimise the risk. That's why doing nothing isn't an option right now. It starts with transparency. I welcome the initiative to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, in which everything can be covered. It used to be said that political cover-up supports. With this initiative, we are proving the opposite. Anything can come to light.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u15	I apologise to the members of the N-VA, but your speaking time has been exhausted. I now give the floor to Mrs Onkelinx on behalf of the PS. Speaking time shall be 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u16	Mr President, it is a painful exercise that we are carrying out since we are still in the shock of the emotion felt as a result of the attacks on Tuesday and the number of victims. We are still under the shock of the attacks of some foreign services which, soon after the events, denounced Belgium, our security and intelligence services. We talked about Turkey and France. I would point out that, already on Tuesday afternoon, an Israeli newspaper reported that Belgium was aware of the imminent attack on Brussels-National airport and probably on a metro station. And most recently, American services have spoken about this. We are still in shock after learning that mistakes have been made. The latter were confirmed as two of the three ministers present here submitted their resignations for this reason. As you said, ministers, clarity must be made. We need to know whether faults have been committed in an individual capacity or whether our services have not functioned properly. I would like to ask a few questions in order to better align the work to be carried out on the occasion of the Committee of Inquiry which is to be set up since its establishment has already been the subject of a unanimous decision in the Conference of Presidents. First of all, Mr Minister of the Interior, we will have to know exactly what happened on Tuesday. Unfortunately, in view of what has happened several times in France, we could see that when an attack is triggered, unfortunately there is a series of other twists in the country. You said – and it is quite normal – that priority is given to relief services because men and women need to be rescued. But what steps have been taken to secure the major sites where other attacks could take place? Moreover, after Zaventem's attack, another attack took place at Maelbeek station. You spoke about Turkish information about Ibrahim El Bakraoui. You said that between 11 June, the day he was arrested, and 26 June, you did not receive any information from Turkey. You said that on 26 June, the liaison officer was informed and that on 29 June, he warned the central leadership of the fight against serious and organized crime. I would like to know what this central leadership has done? You seem to say that mistakes have been made in the head of this liaison officer – we will probably hear him in the committee of inquiry – but I would like to know what the central management of the fight against serious and organised crime has done with information. What police and judicial follow-up has followed this specific information? You say that in July, the information fell that he had been arrested for terrorist-related acts, that is, a radicalized man who wanted to go to Syria. To which service was it transmitted? What have we done with it? In which databases did this man find himself in Belgium? What actions have our police, judicial and prosecutorial services taken in this regard? I take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice the same questions as you, Mr.Minister of the Interior, but I find that the Minister of Justice has been little prolixed about the follow-up to the decision of the sentencing court which, on August 21, 2015, decides to terminate the parole of Ibrahim El Bakraoui. If my information is correct, for a profile such as that of Mr. El Bakraoui, from the moment the sentencing court decides to terminate parole, two actions must follow: the payment of the identity of the person to the general national database, which allows any police service in the country to catch him if seen somewhere, and an international arrest warrant. I have not heard anything about this and would also like to have more details on it. It should also be noted that between July, when this person is registered for terrorism and the time when the services are warned that the sentencing court terminates parole, a range of information is normally required. Normally, this person must be included in all databases. Normally, this person must be the subject of arrest warrants. What about it? Clearly, there must be clarity. As far as Malines is concerned, the situation is, of course, extremely serious. I understand that the Minister of the Interior cannot say too much, since an investigation by Committee P is being carried out. Today, the boss of the police zone spoke in the press. I understand he mentioned an individual mistake. Have you made any arrangements? Did you summon the person in charge of the area? If what we are told is true, for three months, we have retained information that could have been crucial to prevent the attacks. I think we have a right to know a little more than what appears on the front page in the press. Mr President, I still have a lot of questions, but we already need to know some of the additional elements to allow us to launch the machinery of the Committee of Inquiry with this obsession to ask ourselves whether there have been individual or collective mistakes by our services. Do our services work properly? It is important for the victims, for our country, whether or not we are working properly and, above all, whether we can prevent other 22 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u17	Mr President, we debate with a sense of horror when we think of the victims. I thank the Ministers for their presence at this meeting, which is a prerequisite for the commission of inquiry which will have to make all the clarity and which will have to examine, since the attack on the Jewish Museum, how we still need to improve, which will have to point the finger at responsibilities and make the total clarity, as the government has committed itself. I am speaking to Ministers Geens and Jambon, and I would like to say that I am pleased to see you mobilised today. You were in the Terrorism Committee a few hours ago on important steps to be taken. Daesh seeks to destabilize us, to destabilize our societies and democracies. The fact of remaining mobilized is, of course, the answer that had to be produced in Daesh. Mr. Minister of the Interior, thank you for the information about the victims and their support. It's an essential element. We all have one question: why, after the arrest of Salah Abdeslam, the OCAM, which is an independent service, was it returned to level 3? Why, when we had strikes in Zaventem shortly before 08:00, were not measures taken before the subway strikes in terms of information related to the level 4 rise in the terrorist threat? Why didn't there be decisions to evacuate the subway? I also thank you for the progress you have given us with regard to Ibrahim El Bakraoui. At least we'll see a little bit more clearly. It's important. This is the subject of this first exchange of views. He was arrested on 11 June 2015 but it is only on 15 July 2015, if I understand correctly, that the Turkish authorities transmit to the liaison officer information about the reason for the refoulement. What about it? I am asking a very open question here. Has the liaison officer not gone sufficiently to search for information on the reason for refoulement? Or could we have expected the Turkish authorities to forward the information related to the reason for refoulement earlier? We know that we will not be able to answer all the questions today, but another question that is animating us and which is likely to be the subject of further discussion in this committee of inquiry is the decision of the sentencing court with regard to Khalid El Bakraoui. He had not complied with all the conditions of his parole, and there is a decision that still allowed him to benefit from it, which raises questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u18	Mr President, I would like to join Mr Denis Ducrame in thanking us for the precise and thorough information that the three ministers have just given us here. I want to say "in action" because action continues on the ground. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a specific question. But before that, I want to think about it and give testimony. In the immediate follow-up to the explosions, the Minister-President of the Brussels Region, Rudi Vervoort, led to the holding of a Regional Security Council. This was very quick because we were invited to this Regional Council at 10 a.m. We went there, but this Council could not stand because, at that time, the National Security Council was going to begin and there was ultimately not much information or action to be taken. But this was an opportunity for us to share a finding with the population: all the mayors, accompanied at this time by their heads of corps, were unable to communicate with anyone, either with their administration or with the emergency planners on the communal territories, which is much more serious. They couldn't use the gsm. I urge you to improve the channels of communication very quickly, especially since, at this meeting in which my neighbour Mrs Schepmans also attended, we heard a head of the corps ask if anyone could tell him whether level 4 was effective, because he and his men did not know yet. We understood from the press that this level was established. How is it possible that the communication was not better oiled at that time? On the subject of communication and accession to Level 4, Minister of the Interior, I have a more specific question. At the second meeting of the National Security Council at 3:00 p.m., a representative of the OCAM was present. She told us that the MACO was carrying out the assessments of a quarter of an hour in a quarter of an hour. Was this rate of assessment a result of the morning events or was it introduced further? In the latter case, I would like to know why the level of threat could not be raised before the explosion in the subway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their clarification, for once again expressing their condolences to the victims and the family and for thanking the aid and security services in the broadest sense of the word. We can't do that enough. They have rightly pointed out the many things that have already happened, but it is also to their credit that they recognise yesterday and today in the Chamber that not everything has gone perfectly. That's respectful of the victims. It would be good if in future we could get all the information in its globality and not fragmentary so that we can judge globally and not on the basis of fragmentary information. Mr. Home Secretary, you were very strict on the liaison officer. You used the word blunder. Do you intend to initiate disciplinary proceedings? You also said that the DJSOC, the Terror cell as it were, also received information from the liaison officer on 29 June. What have they done with this, including with regard to other police forces and justice? How do you assess the course of action in this respect? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are right to point out the sensitive relations that Belgium currently has with Turkey in the light of the negotiations on the refugee issue and in the light of the rights and freedoms that are not respected in Turkey in the way in which we wish to implement them. It is good that President Erdogan gave us information on Wednesday night, but I personally ask myself questions about the manner and the time in which it happened. The Minister for the Interior has rightly pointed out that this may have gone wrong with the liaison officer. I then express myself very euphemistically and less harshly than the Minister of the Interior, because I certainly do not wish to present a feeling of error in the course of any disciplinary procedure. Apart from that, the question arises as to whether this is the usual procedure. Turkey shall make an electronic notification via the portal at 14:10 at the time when it places the person concerned on the plane and a fax is being sent at that time. My colleague says that a flight to Turkey takes about three hours. In other words, the fax arrives when the person concerned has already landed. Furthermore, it is reported in Turkish and it is not known that the matter is urgent, unless the announcement is opened. The question is whether this is the usual procedure. We read from the Dutch Minister of Justice about the number of things that happen over the telephone line and some through portal mixed with telephone line. Apart from this one, these are also the figures Belgium has on the subject. Are there particular reasons for this and has the Turkish authorities been asked why this derogation procedure has been used in this case? I would like to repeat once again that I certainly do not want to justify the liaison officer's behaviour. Finally, Minister of Justice, we currently have a practice of about one and a half years with regard to the sixth state reform and the division between courts and courts of justice. How do you evaluate this data in the field? How do you evaluate the flow of information from the courthouses to the criminal courts? There is a serious gap in timing between the national signaling, between the discrete control signal and the international arrest. Does it make sense that this is taking so long? You talked about the Joint Intervention Team with France. I think this is good, too. Can this also be extended to other countries? Finally, Minister, I read in the media this morning that the suicide bomber concerned El Bakraoui would have made another deposit to the victim, with a deposit certificate referring to an address in Laeken. Is this information correct? Did something happen to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u20	Mr President, Ministers, very briefly and not repeating, I thank the Ministers for not resigning. I thank them for having received a very detailed report here as Members of Parliament, from minute to minute, with very factual data, which actually answers a lot of questions. I am not saying that all the questions have been answered. I have tried to record everything, and many of you have tried to do so with me. There will undoubtedly be questions. I have some of them myself. However, a dismissal would have meant that you would not have come here to answer for it. I don't think this would have been good at all. Even in very difficult waters, a captain stays on the ship. Otherwise, it could have disastrous consequences. Once again, I'm grateful you're both here. Two concrete elements. Firstly, Mr De Wit has spoken about the Lejeune Act, everything that has to do with conditional release. Unless I am very mistaken, however, I believe that just now this Minister of Justice, together with the government, is planning to propose very important reforms within the framework of the Justice Plan. They're in the pipeline. I have also understood very well that our friend Khalid had, of course, served four-fifths of his punishment with the necessary irony at the time of his release. I even believe that the reforms in the pipeline do not go that far. I thought I'd give it to you anyway. Perhaps the Minister of Justice could explain on this point what is contained in the judicial plan or the government agreement, because there are some passages about this too. A second question concerns the information of the Turks. I was surprised and even touched by that attack from Turkey with all the information there is. When that man landed at Schiphol Airport, was there any reason to arrest him or not? Wasn't there a reason to signal him back then? He wasn't on the phone at the time. That's obvious. Both Minister Jambon and Minister Geens emphasised the important date of 11 January 2016. Then the information finally arrived, I understood after repeated pressure from the LO on 28 July, on 10 November, on 8 December and again afterwards, on the political leaders. Only then did the signals happen. That is perhaps why, at the time when Ibrahim was on the flight from Turkey to Schiphol on 14 July at around 10 a.m. to 40 p.m., he was unable to be arrested because of the systems that exist. That is another specific question I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u21	I shall give the floor to Mr Yüksel for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u22	Mr Home Secretary, on Friday 18 March Salah Abdeslam was arrested. The level of terror was maintained at 3. What additional measures were taken at the time? We all expected a response after that arrest. What measures were taken between Friday 18 March and Tuesday 22 March at sensitive locations, despite the fact that we stayed at level 3? Do we have a view of the Belgians who have been sent back by Turkey in the last two years? Do we have a view of jihad fighters who have offered themselves at the Turkish-Syrian border? What information have we received about this group from Turkey? How did the follow-up of that group happen? How many Belgians have been sent back by Turkey? One final question concerns that liaison officer. You have indeed been very sharp, Minister for the Interior. You will have your reasons. The chronology of the facts speaks for itself. Mr Home Secretary, since when do we have a liaison officer in Turkey? I assume that, over time, people will be evaluated and the way they function. Have evaluations and information exchanges taken place with our Foreign Affairs, Justice and Home Affairs services in relation to this function in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u23	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat what I said yesterday, which is, of course, still the words of deep condolence and praise to all those who have done so much over the last few days. Presidents, the present sitting shows that Parliament must follow a two-track policy. What do I mean by a two-track policy? It is a good thing that today, in this plenary session, the three ministers are coming to explain their political responsibility. That political responsibility is important. We must monitor this. However, political responsibility is also weighed by each minister individually. Minister Jambon has made clear, as far as he is concerned, what has been in his hands and what has been in his hands. He also revealed what took place during the talks within the government. He also talked about the discussions with the Prime Minister so that we can assess the political responsibility in this matter and give a place to it. Some interpret political responsibility as requiring the Minister to leave. In French it is said:il faut assumer sa responsabilité. One has to accept one's responsibility by doing exactly what society and public opinion expect from him or her. That is what political responsibility is all about. I do not know how we will continue the present committee, but there is a second equally important part in the drama. The Ministers have, through their replies to that section, assessed the situation. They referred to a liaison officer, to police officers and to officials who might have made mistakes. Those are people who cannot be heard here today. That those who may have committed negligence or have made a personal mistake. They may also operate in a structure that is no longer functional, they may be understaffed, underfunded. There may be several reasons why those people could have gone wrong. I speak in the conditional sense, because the past has taught me that we should be careful to nail people to the cross in public meetings. Those people can't defend themselves today. That is also where the importance of a parliamentary inquiry lies. Parliament will have to look into this. Apart from the fact that ministers have come to explain what their political responsibility might be, I believe that we owe it to ourselves to put that weapon, which we use exceptionally, in the fire this time. A parliamentary committee of inquiry can operate both on a charge and on a charge basis and does not depart from certain principles, but simply wants to come to the truth wherever that truth is. For this she can hear and confront, among other things, people and witnesses. It is important in this consideration that we continue to follow the two tracks. The government has political responsibility, of course, but I believe that Parliament is obliged to do so, taking into account what has happened. It's a drama of an unseen magnitude. It's caused trauma complications, and we have to go through a healing process. Such parliamentary research can indeed contribute to this healing process. If there is underfunding, if there are structural errors or dysfunctions or if there are human errors, then I want to know who committed them and why they were committed. These matters are not solely politically responsible. That is why we need to dig deeper.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about the phase from Turkey, but I also have a number of questions at the earlier stage, from the moment it was established that the conditions of conditional release of both brothers El Bakraoui were violated. Then what exactly happened? We heard today that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was suspended on 11 October 2014. Afterwards, the follow-up by the justice assistant was considered reasonable. There was reasonable cooperation, the Minister of Justice said. I would like a little more clarification on the precise conditions that were imposed, both general and special, and on what exactly happened from the moment that was reported in May 2015, if I have noted correctly that the person in question was no longer seen and did not go to the arrangements with the judicial assistant. We know that the revocation by the criminal enforcement court dates from 21 August 2015. There are several months in between. What kind of violation was the report made by the justice assistant? What's the reaction of the parquet? Is there a provisional arrest order issued so that Ibrahim El Bakraoui could be apprehended immediately? Or did they just wait for the criminal court to withdraw them? How active has it been since the breach of the conditions was established? It was said that precise information was not provided from Turkey until January this year. We wonder how it is possible that if a convicted and prematurely released criminal is stopped at the border, this does not lead to loud bells ringing at that time. Why didn't we start looking much more intensely for this convicted criminal at the time? A word about the exchange of information between the police and the justice system, the flow of information. I would like to ask the Ministers for the Interior and Justice if they can say today that there are structural shortcomings in this area. Or has it just been a case of individual flaws? Is there anything more to be said about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u25	Mr Vandenput, you have three minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u26	Mr President, Ministers, I would like to talk about what happened in Turkey in the summer of last year. Minister Jambon has explained the chronology completely, for which I am grateful, but a number of questions remain. Firstly, Minister Reynders, could you clarify the role of the embassy once again? Were the agreed procedure followed? Some faxes and phones were sent to the liaison officer, others to the embassy. The communication's a little ambiguous. Did everything happen according to the procedures? In the short term, will consultations be held with Turkey, and perhaps with other countries, in order to clarify and clarify the procedure, in such a way that, should there be any incidents or any further arrest of Syrian fighters in the border region, rapid and unambiguous communication is possible? Secondly, Minister Jambon, the DJSOC already knew on 29 June that the jihadist concerned had been arrested. My question is clear: what has the DJSOC done with this since 29 June? On 15 July, they were officially informed of this, but what happened during that interim period? Thirdly, I would like to return briefly to yesterday's summit. We read the statements. Those look a little skinny to us. What is in it are the existing commitments. That is good and essential, but there is no denying that we now need to move a gear higher. President Hollande did the same after the attacks in Paris. He advocated greater cooperation in the field of defence in Europe. My specific question is whether Belgium will also talk to the European partners and take the lead in making the intelligence services at European level one for a proper flow of information? We see today that a number of possible links have emerged in Germany too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u27	Presidents, Ministers, it is with mixed feelings that we are taking part in this debate. There is, of course, a feeling of anger for so much cowardice in the attacks and grief caused by the suffering that was done to the victims. There is also a bit of shame because it is now clear that a number of mistakes have been made. Even if the attacks could not have been avoided without these mistakes, they would have been more difficult to commit. I notice a great difference between what Minister Jambon says about this, in particular that mistakes have been made, and the more relativistic argument made by Minister Geens, which I am somewhat sorry about. Yesterday Minister Geens said in relation that he understood the anger, but it was only one of the perpetrators and not even the most enterprising. I hope he understands that when someone commits a suicide attack and kills people, it is inappropriate to say that that person is not the most enterprising. I believe that Minister Geens, like Minister Jambon, must also admit that clear mistakes have been made. I missed that in his answer. After all, it is clear that mistakes have been made. Among other things, my colleague asked what the DJSOC did with the information. The ministers have said nothing. The liaison officer is indeed informed and does what a liaison officer must do, namely to connect with his home base. A liaison officer isn't really an operational person. Could that man have been a little more diligent, could he have pushed a little more? Yeah, he could've checked with the Turks sooner. Could he have pushed more in Belgium? No doubt. I therefore share the analysis that we can at least ask questions, and indeed I am only talking about questions, because we also need to hear the views of the person concerned. With what we know now, we can indeed say that the liaison officer could have dealt with this a little more clearly. However, I do not think that is the most important observation, because he has carried out his first function, namely to ask the question. He asked that question to the competent department, the DJSOC, the part of the judicial police responsible for organised crime. The Time was quite well informed this morning, because many of the things that were said here could be read there. The paper literally says what the federal police would have answered. The answer was that El Bakraoui was only known to us for serious theft, as you also said at a certain point, Mr Geens, illegal possession of weapons, threats, rebellion, deliberate beatings and injuries, and that he was released under conditions. Anyway, if that was the answer, it's not enough. How can a service responsible for organized crime which is faced with a criminal being arrested on the border of Turkey and Syria who was not on holiday there, we know that this is not a holiday destination, we do not need to do anything about it, because it is just a criminal? Since when does a judicial police department say that when a person manifestally withdraws from his conditions and clearly finds himself in a border zone where there is war and Syrian fighters are sitting, that he should not be arrested because he is merely a criminal? I really think this is as wrong as it gets. One can't do that. Every day the municipal authorities are instructed to follow everyone, that they should be very vigilant, that they should report it when someone is threatening to leave. But when someone is there, is convicted and withdraws from those conditions, nothing must be done about it. That is incomprehensible to me, more incomprehensible than the too slow and too weak performance of the liaison officer. I would like to add that to what has already been said in the newspapers about a report by the P Committee. I do not have that document, but two newspapers said that the P Committee has pointed out that the DJSOC has not been working properly for a year. Is that an individual responsibility, or has that service also gone structurally wrong and failed? Does that service have insufficient resources? Thirdly, have those services, the liaison officers and the DJSOC, received instructions? It's easy to say that someone didn't work well. Did they have instructions on how to act? It's okay for me to hope. Does the Minister of Justice have the main responsibility, but that is of less importance with the government ever given instructions to Turkey's liaison officer? I hope so. What were the instructions? Finally, we have read that one hour has been spent in the Bruges prison on the interrogation of Salah Abdeslam. Minister Reynders said about Salah Abdeslam in an interview that he planned new activities. Yet only one hour was spent trying to figure out what might happen. How is it that only one hour has been spent on it, when a member of the government himself says it was clear that the person concerned was planning something else? That is a very difficult question for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take the floor with the same restraint. To the introduction of my colleague, Mr Vande Lanotte, I would like to add that it is a good thing to pay tribute to the thousands of aid workers. There really are thousands of them. I have witnessed policemen and firefighters from my area who have done a good job in particular apocalyptic conditions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to dwell on the details that are being questioned here today. However, I would like to comment on the ambition expressed by Minister None to seek efficiency in unity. Mr Minister, I shall start again with an open door by talking about the FTF directive that we have talked about so many times. According to that Directive, local police areas are considered to follow up on people on the OCAD list, hanging on and visible. It is not the first time, and I am sorry today, that I have to repeat that we find that this is not possible. This is not possible because there may be a shortage of information and police officers, but above all because the judicial information services do not pass on their information to the local level. This is essential if the FTF Directive is to succeed at local level. I hope that there will be unity in the way it is resolved, but above all that there will be efficiency and the judicial investigation data will be made available to the police areas affected by radicalised persons on the OCAD list. Secondly, for years, I have found that there is an incredible efficiency problem in our capital in the field of police and information circulation, with separate video circuits of STIB, SNCB and the local police zones. My question is clear: is the government ready to work effectively in unity and efficiency towards a clear, well-organised police area in the capital so that we can work efficiently at local level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u29	Mr President, Minister of the Interior, I am not going to turn around the pot. I'm going to tell you about some discomfort. I feel like you've decided to focus everything on the liaison officer's responsibility and that's all that's going to come out of your communication today. However, the remaining issues are far more numerous. Your only answer today is to point that responsibility, without placing it in context. Mr. Dewael also spoke about it earlier. I note, however, that on June 29, the information was transmitted. We know who the person concerned is, we know where she is, we know her past and we know what she intended to do, namely to go to Syria. From there, in addition to looking at what the liaison officer does or does not do, we must look at what other government departments do. What lessons do you learn? On this point, at least at this point, we have nothing. Second question – my colleagues, Mr. Van Hecke and Mr Vanden Burre will complete later – we talked a lot about Turkey. Perhaps it is also a question for Minister Reynders: what about the specific information, if any, received from the United States, Morocco, Israel and perhaps even Russia or other countries, in connection with this situation and the attacks that were clearly announced, by some in any case? Colleagues will complete, but as far as I am concerned, I would like to go back to this episode of resignation. Minister Jambon's words are clear: "He's the liaison officer, I had to assume." But I did not understand what Minister Geens said. Mr Geens, how do you explain your resignation? Minister Reynders doesn't even talk about it. Has this been mentioned? Mr Reynders, have you, too, spoken to the Prime Minister? We don't know. I expect an answer from you on this, Ministers. Beyond that, I would also like to know what you decided on the communication of the decision? Let me tell you that making this communication a few minutes from the tribute in front of the nation's palace was, to say the least, inappropriate. What did you agree on in terms of communication? Who was to communicate and when? I ask you to answer out of respect for the families, who are entitled to be informed today. I would like to add something that is a little on the margins and that we have not talked about, but that could have a connection with our subject. We also learn that different accreditations, without knowing exactly how many – some speak of four, others of eleven – have been withdrawn from people working in our nuclear power plants. In this case, my questions are addressed to Ministers Jambon and Reynders. Is this related to the information that is circulating? Why is this decision made now, when they have been working on it for six years? I would like to hear your first answers on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u30	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the chronology of the facts has been given. There is now more clarity about what exactly happened on what specific dates. However, the chronology also raises more questions. My fellow Members have already referred to this. On 29 June the liaison officer shall communicate the information to Belgium. She's gonna end up with federal law enforcement. She asks for more information and then waits. There are two problems there. Firstly, if after two to three weeks there has still been no response from the liaison officer, why hasn't a recall been sent after a few days? Are they just sitting there waiting? If there's no answer, is that file at the bottom of the pile? Secondly, what else is there to do with the information? The information has been sent to the Terro service, not to any other service. The liaison officer shall send the information to the Terro Department, which shall deal with terrorism. That service therefore knows, after searching, that the person concerned has violated the conditions, that his conditional release has been revoked and that he must therefore be sought. What did they do at the time? That remains an important question that has not been answered today. Something may go wrong somewhere, but the backup that the information also has must be able to take action on time. Yesterday, communication was difficult to track. At some point, Minister Jambon said that there are some problems and mistakes in the justice system. The Minister of Justice said the mistakes lie with the police. Eventually, the matter can be transferred to the Communities, because the courts are under their jurisdiction. However, it does not benefit anyone. Each minister must look carefully, within his own responsibility, where mistakes may have occurred. We must name those mistakes and carry out further investigations where necessary. That seems essential to me. I hear the story of Minister Geens today, but I do not know where the mistakes that might be mentioned there or what you think have gone wrong in the process. On the contrary, you say that the route before the criminal court has been quite normal. Where do you think mistakes have been made within the Justice Department? Where are possible dysfunctions? I also have a number of questions about the ongoing investigation. At some point, fellow Members have already referred to this. The message is being circulated that Salah Abdeslam is talking and preparing other attacks. It's just being sent out into the world. Do we have any idea what that means? The companions are still out there and hear that Abdeslam is starting to talk. Perhaps they will then take the weapons and the bombs that lie there because they think that one can stand there within five minutes. Was that so smart? Who does that? Who's leaking that information? Shouldn't that be investigated? That seems essential to me. Then there's the message, although I don't know if it's true, that Abdeslam would only have been interrogated for one hour. If that's true, then I'm asking myself questions. Apparently, there were other attacks planned, according to what he would have said. And then they talk to him for an hour and leave him in prison for a few days? What has been done to get as much information as possible and as much information as possible in the short term as can be useful to avoid other attacks? Still info on overseas. We have already had Turkey. Yesterday, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that Belgium had been notified by several intelligence services about attacks at the national airport. That's what they say. None of the three ministers has spoken about information that has or has not come from abroad. My specific question is whether it is true that information has come from abroad, from other secret services or anyone else, in relation to attacks in Zaventem? Is that right? If such information has been received, what has been done with it? That seems essential to me too. There was no mention of that. According to another message, the names of the two brothers would have been on the FBI's list, but were not on the terrorist list in Belgium and the Netherlands at the time. Is there any explanation for that? Isn't there normally a data exchange there? Finally, one can look for individual mistakes, but we must also look at structural errors. I would like to refer to a number of reports from the P and I committees which highlighted a number of structural problems which occasionally arise. This also concerns the databases and problems of feeding and consulting them, as well as the analysis at the OCAD and the like. What have you done with these reports and the signals you have received over the last few months to tackle the problems that seem to be structural? I would very much like to hear that, because it may be obvious now to be able to prove a person's error somewhere, but I think we should also look at the existing structures, at the architecture and the mistakes that are in them and the government is aware of. I want to know what you did when you got that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u31	I shall pass the floor to the colleagues of the CDH, Mr Dallemagne and then Mr Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the words of compassion, sadness and admiration that we address to the population, to the victims, to their families, to the relief services, I think that what the people expect today is to be better protected, that tomorrow we can, as far as possible, avoid such horrors and attacks. In order to be better protected, the public must know what did not work, what were the failures, what were the negligences. We are only beginning to have this debate. You know that we would have liked this debate to take place the day after the attacks in Paris. I think this might have speeded up some work on failures and negligence. Mr. Minister of the Interior, I cannot follow you when you say that there has been isolated negligence. There has been a chain of failures in your department and other departments, on this case and on other cases. With regard to the El Bakraoui case, if the chronology is repeated, there were 18 days between the moment when the Turkish authorities informed the liaison officer and the moment when they expelled Ibrahim El Bakraoui to the Netherlands. So indeed, like many other colleagues, I wonder what was done during this period of time, since we know that as early as June 29, the federal police services were informed. What did they do with information about an individual who was known to have been convicted of serious crimes and was about to cross the Syrian border? What more does it take for our services to link great crime, jihadism, terrorism? Why was this person not directly questioned by our services? It's a central question. Who was informed of the existence of this character in Turkish prisons? He was actually arrested on the 14th and was already detained for 12 days when he was reported to the Belgian authorities, it seems from the information you are giving us today. Who knew? What did the postmaster know? I address this question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs as we know that in embassies, the teams inform each other of the status of the cases. What did the postmaster know, since you are telling us today that your postmaster, on 23 March, reconfirmed to you information about the expulsion of Ibrahim El Bakraoui to the Netherlands? What did the federal police officers do here with the information they had? Did they pass them on to Justice? That is a fundamental question. We know that this individual was expelled to the Netherlands; what happened at that time? What cooperation existed between the Netherlands and Belgium? This individual was arrested, according to the spokesman of the Turkish Embassy in Brussels, because "he would have appeared on the registers of possible foreign fighters". I'm quoting him. In any case, he was arrested because for the Turks, he had a profile of a terrorist jihadist. How and with what seriousness have this information from Turkey been processed by the Belgian services? This is important information. Are there any other individuals we have neglected, who are on the Syrian border and who have been reported by Turkey? Why had Salah Abdeslam not yet been questioned in the hours following his arrest about what was happening in Belgium? However, the Foreign Minister, on 20 March, declared that Salah Abdeslam was ready to do something again in Brussels. Minister for Foreign Affairs, what information did you have on 20 March to make such statements? What mechanisms have been put in place to try to avoid what happened on March 22nd? Here are my first questions. My colleague Christian Brotcorne has other questions to address to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, resignation is a means by which we must not play in democracy. When asked by the opposition, one may still have doubts, but when offered by a minister, it is because he considers that the elements in his possession no longer allow him to pursue his political action or that he must bear the consequences of defaults in the departments he manages. I do not comment today on the merits of the volte-face of the two ministers after proposing their resignations. I note at least that the Minister of the Interior offers us one reason: the fact that he overwhelms the liaison officer in Turkey, of whom he is directly the superior. On the contrary, I understand why the Foreign Minister did not consider it necessary to resign. He said, he's not directly responsible for this liaison officer. On the other hand, I am still looking in vain for the reasons that prompted the Minister of Justice to propose his resignation. In the explanations that have been given, in the course of time, I seek in vain the place that the Minister of Justice pointed out to be sufficient to justify his resignation. Minister, I assume it is not because of the decisions of the sentencing court, it would be contrary to the principle of separation of powers, and you have pointed out that. I think there may be a search for what happened between 26 June, when Mr. Ibrahim El Bakraoui was arrested in Turkey, and 21 August, when his parole was revoked. There, I didn't hear you. From the moment information was circulated, were they late, from our embassy, what were you informed about? When? How? What have you done with this information? Did you pass them on to those who were supposed to continue the examination of the terms of parole for this character? Have you, or have you not, communicated this information to the Communities, who are now responsible for this follow-up and the terms and conditions of parole? How are these relations with the Communities structured? In this particular case, what did you do and what did you say? The Prime Minister promised us that there would be no shadows, that we would have all the transparency. I think that at this stage we did not have all the information necessary to allow us to appreciate why our Minister of Justice considered that he should resign. I hope that the coming days and weeks will allow us to see more clearly. I find it a pity at this point that we cannot get the first indications. I will simply conclude, Mr President, by asking myself, not about the past or today, but about the future of events. In the press, we can read excerpts from the minutes and hearings of Mr Salah Abdeslam, when we are supposed, and it was sufficiently recalled, to live in a regime where the investigation is secret. Have there been any leaks? Do they come from the police or from personalities close to the judiciary? It seems to me urgent to shed light on this too if we do not want to take the risk of the investigation of these dramatic events leading to a fiasco.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u34	Mr President, Ministers, thank you for your reply. However, I have to admit that I expected a different answer. The scapegoat appears to have been found, the liaison officer. It's one mistake of one man. In practice, however, there are many, many, many errors and unfortunately also policy errors. Your analysis of political responsibility was correct. I insist that the resignation of both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice was and is more than justified. A political error that has not yet been mentioned is that the third perpetrator, Najim Laachraoui, who today has just confirmed that he is the third perpetrator of the attacks, in September 2015 together with Abdeslam, who had been on a list of OCAD for two years, could come free and without any problem with the flow of asylum seekers to Belgium. Abaaoud is even happy about the Belgian federal authorities in a propaganda magazine of IS, Dabiq, because they allow him to travel freely between Syria and Belgium. In this case, policy mistakes have been made, since border controls have not even been introduced and the government did not even want to close the borders at that time, despite IS's warnings that they are sending terrorists with the flow of asylum seekers. A second wrong choice of policy is the lax justice policy. Mr Degroote, you are indeed carrying a very heavy legacy through the lax justice policy of the past few decades. The big problem, however, is that you are consolidating that policy today. The whole potpourri II, the whole Genens plan and the entire justice plan see prison as an ultimatum remedium. In your view, that punishment is only a last resort. It is a means that can only be used in the very last instance. It is a policy of ankle bracelets and pats on the back, which promotes impunity. What worries me most is that Minister Geens today is very relativizing and almost condoning things. He deliberately cited Khalid's example and not his brother Ibrahim's example. On Khalid, the Minister said three times that he served four fifths of his sentence. Let me give the other example of the least enterprising of the two, Ibrahim. He was convicted of an armed robbery where he also shot an officer with a kalashnikov. He was convicted of that for ten years. For such facts, I consider that to be a very minor punishment. He didn't even serve half that sentence. After four years and nine months, he got out early. Then they also managed to lose him. If then the report to the DJSOC arrives on 29 June that he was arrested in Turkey, then the response is: ask for more information. It seems to me that this is very little proactive. He was arrested in Gaziantep. That is known as a stronghold of extremists who have ties to ISIS. The jihadists are leaving for Syria. You just got busted for being foreign fighter or terrorist. Ask for more information and no alarm bells that are going to ring, I find that incomprehensible. It is only six months later that an international arrest warrant is issued against that man. That is explained by Minister None now that it was to be able to track down the most enterprising brother, Khalid, in that way. I have very big questions about that. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm not gonna repeat it. I'm going to add a few more. Mohamed Belkaid, the Algerian who was shot during the search, was illegally in the country. Minister Geens just confirmed that he was already known to the police for a theft in 2014. If an illegal criminal gets caught, he usually gets an order to leave the territory. Did that man get that kind of order? If so, was effective action taken? Was he effectively expelled from the country and subsequently returned to the country or served the order, as for the majority of the illegals arrested, simply as identification, as paper to have in their pockets, and was no follow-up given? In the latter case, it is very difficult for agents to risk their lives for someone who should not have been in the country. There are still a lot of unclear issues that are being examined by the P Committee. Reference has already been made to Mechelen. The P Committee is also considering the tips already given to the federal judicial police in July 2014, the tips on radicalising and planning Abdeslam. In January, my group also encouraged them to ask for a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I now hear that Mr Dewael is very pleased with a parliamentary committee of inquiry and that Mr Degroote is also very much in favour of it. I am pleased with this moving insight, because in January they laughed at us. In March we tabled amendments to our own proposal, following new mistakes and blunders that emerged. So you can spare yourself the work, ladies and gentlemen, to draw up a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. There's already a document in the Chamber, with no. 1626. It just needs to be expanded with the mistakes that have been made. Today, in any case, we will not be able to get an answer to all the questions. I do, however, insist that the parliamentary committee of inquiry should not, like the committees of inquiry I have already experienced in this Parliament, in which attempts were made to launder a committee like the Dutroux Committee at the time, through some sort of cooling-off period and with delaying manoeuvres. Then indeed the bottom stone could be brought up and all mistakes and blunders uncovered, just to prevent them from being repeated in the future. The consequences are far too great. As is appropriate for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, all political responsibilities must also be identified. I am certainly very interested in the answers to the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u35	Mr President, I come back to the request I made at the beginning of the committee. I'd like to know what we're going to do after this meeting. We have been able to ask a few questions and we are continuing, but a lot of questions are still pending. Will it be necessary to await the establishment of a commission of inquiry? If so, the proposal should be drafted, submitted to the plenary, sent back to the committee and then returned to the plenary, etc. This may take several weeks. Or do we continue, in the wake of this meeting, to organize committees to answer the many questions that arise? At noon in the Committee on Terrorism, we were told that it is important to move very quickly to the level of legislation. But, on the other hand, with regard to the analysis of the dysfunctions which are the direct cause of the acts we have known, I find that there is apparently no urgency. Perhaps the Conference of Presidents will decide something else. I come to what I continue to call the "com" operation of denied resignations. I heard Minister Jambon, including on television, say: "It's not 'com', what matters is the fight against terrorism. We remain because the situation is serious." Why should we make known this request for resignation refused, if not for com? I also heard Mr. Jambon giving facts to explain his request for resignation, although there are still many questions. On the other hand, as far as Minister Geens is concerned, one finally wonders why he proposed to resign. As far as Ibrahim El Bakraoui is concerned, the question remains. All the elements were there to stop him in 2015. Why did Belgium not stop him? Turkey informed Belgium twice, once in June and again in July 2015, that it had arrested him and was going to hand him over to the Netherlands. What happened on June 29, 2015? We can ask ourselves the question because the information is transmitted, but we don't know what we're doing with it. Beyond knowing what happened, the main question is whether the fact that the information was not taken into account is a bug one shot or whether it is a structural bug in the transmission of information. Nothing was done at that time and nothing was done either after the expulsion! Why? The sum of the information we had about Ibrahim El Bakraoui (violent armed banditry, the use of kalashnikovs, the fact that he is a fighter in Syria, his brother's curriculum vitae, etc.) was largely enough to stop him. Minister Jambon tells us, "A person has made a mistake at this level." Is it a person or several people? If it is a person or several people, who are they? Are we not heading for a lamp operation, where we will find the fuse to blow up and thus be absolved of all responsibility? I tend to say, in the face of so much amateurism, as we see here and in other facts that we have not been able to talk about today (Malines, the police of Molenbeek, Schaerbeek, etc.). In the face of so many repeated errors, it is no longer an individual error but a structural problem. Minister Jambon intends to find solutions. It's always the flight forward. We will set up a PNR file in order to have all the data of all air passengers. We'll even know what they eat, etc. But when Turkey gives us the identity of a jihadist, no need for PNR file in this case! We have the information, but we don't do anything about it! Let us prioritise the problems and look at where the real shortcomings and malfunctions are rather than favouring the legislative run-off which is more a matter of the scramble than of the resolution of the real problems! We can also talk about the Abdeslam brothers. The Federal Judicial Police was aware of a risk of terrorist attacks with the Abdeslam brothers in the summer of 2014. Why didn't we do anything about this information? It has been reported that contacts with the brothers Abdeslam and Abdelhamid Abaaoud have long been known. A police officer collected information that he considered important enough to wake up in the middle of the night the boss of the anti-terrorist service. But no one seemed to want to consider this information with the seriousness it requires. These brothers have been in the sight since January 2015. It can be seen, for example, that the local police in Molenbeek obtained information that the Abdeslam brothers intended to return to Syria to fight under the banner of Daesh. An investigation is under way, but it is closed on 8 May. The case was dismissed on 29 June 2015. Why these repeated malfunctions? Today, we have to see that we are not faced with an individual cuiac, faced with a person who has committed a fault, but with a global and structural problem. The causes of the latter must be taken into account. One of these causes is the fact that we have too much information. In order to clear customs, the police also refer to the mass of information they receive and to their inability to manage them all. Maybe there are choices to be made. It is important to choose between sending military personnel to the streets, when everyone knows that it is of no use, other than to make the population feel illusory, and to take targeted measures against terrorists. With all the money that was put into the deployment of the military on the streets, it would have been possible to take many targeted measures against terrorists. We would have been better equipped to avoid what we knew. The Minister of the Interior referred to the fingerprinting of everyone. If we take the example of terrorists, we did have their fingerprints. This is another general measure that is of no use! It could be said that, in the end, it was thanks to pizza that Abdeslam was arrested and that it was thanks to a taximan that we were able to go back to the El Bakraoui brothers' safe house. I'm telling you this to show you that there's no need for a general label, but that we need to be more focused on actors in the field, such as the local police, the courts, the trackers and the indicators. However, this has not been taken into account. How can we explain, and this is another important structural problem, the lack of communication between the services – justice, state security, local police, federal police and even within the anti-terrorist unit where different baronies would shoot in their hands and hide information? Ministers have said that we will not talk about Malines, but this illustrates the problem I am referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u36	Colleague, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u37	Mr. Chairman, I started at 4:34 p.m., it's 4:43 p.m., so I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u38	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u39	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the thanks extended to the rescue and intelligence services who have done the work, even if there has been a coucac, which the future committee of inquiry, as I hope, will demonstrate or not. I wonder about the release of a well-known criminal, well-known for his handling of Kalashnikov. Perhaps, in the arsenal of laws that we are voting for, we should review the Lejeune law somewhat? It should be adapted to the gravity of the facts in question. I am making this suggestion to the Minister of Justice. I would also like to talk about OCAM. This organ places the level of threat from 3 to 4 and then from 4 to 3; it seems to be playing yo-yo. I notice that we move to 4 when the drama is consumed. Citizens see this position at four of the level of threat as coming a little too late. "After the hour, it's not time," as they say. In addition, Level 4 is particularly detrimental to the lives of the Brussels people. Would it not be possible to envisage an intermediate level between 3 and 4, less difficult than 4, but more sustained? We are at the time of the Internet and of the motorways of communication; according to the dates that the Minister of the Interior has told us, why did it take so long to send very important information from the Turkish police services to the office of a minister in Belgium? We're talking about the head of the Turkish police. In this future commission of inquiry, can he be questioned? Maybe it would be interesting to hear it. I would also like to associate myself with the request of several of our colleagues: we would like to be able to audition the liaison officer in question earlier. I would not want anyone to be condemned before even giving him the opportunity to defend himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u40	I propose that we now listen to the response of the Ministers. Who's gonna take the answer? Minister Reynders has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u41	Mr President, I have noted five or six elements. Mr. Nollet, who was there earlier, wanted to know the time line with regard to my end of day on 23 March and my night from 23 to 24. I confirm to him that, when I became aware of the e-mail sent by the embassy, which I read earlier, I asked my services to take stock of all the events that had taken place at the time indicated by President Erdogan. We have communicated these elements to the Prime Minister's Office as we move forward. For my part, I met the Ambassador of South Africa at the end of the day; I finished my day and went to sleep. Then, from 08:00, I had contact with the Prime Minister, who explained the situation to me, and we prepared the Kern which was held late in the morning. As far as the threat is concerned, I had the opportunity, after the Paris attacks, to talk about the fact that we were looking for a dozen heavily armed people. That was impressive. Since the Paris attacks, however, we have said that the fear that has placed us at level 3 is that similar attacks can be committed in Brussels. This has been repeated several times by the government. I have quoted ten people, but since then we have stopped - and sometimes shot - more people. A few days before Salah Abdeslam was arrested, we discovered heavy equipment during searches in Forest. As the Minister of the Interior pointed out, level 3 is not an ordinary level. This is a serious level of action because we feared such attacks of the same nature as those organized in Paris, that is, by several groups in several places. I would also like to thank Mr Dewael. I did not say anything about some individual: it is the task of a committee to go into this in more detail through a hearing with a few people. It was logical to sketch a complete story with the different moments when there was communication with Turkey. As far as I'm concerned, the liaison officer is one link in a very long chain. There may be more details about this, but I do not want to name individual specific errors of a liaison officer or anyone else in such a chain of institutions and people. As far as the information from Turkey is concerned, even if I have just heard that it was useful to work on the Internet, I would like to say that we do not exclude asking to work on paper again. We can give more details when we have gathered all the information, but for example, according to the embassy, we have on several occasions received verbal communications announcing the deportation to Belgium of people who had already arrived for several days. Information should be provided in a more direct manner. I read earlier that the Dutch Minister for Security is asking above all for direct contacts with the police. I repeat, it is not by chance that with my colleagues we went to Ankara in early March to try to strengthen these direct contacts between services, particularly between police services. I confirm, Mr Dallemagne, that the head of the post is obviously at the disposal of Parliament to give more information. However, once the information has been communicated to the department concerned, the activities of the position continue. The essential thing here was that the information should be in the hands of the liaison officer and that he could notify his central services in Brussels, which was done, as the Minister of the Interior said. Finally, for other information, Haaretz was quoted. I believe that this was primarily for intelligence services. I think these are intelligence-to-intelligence contacts. I do not have more precise information on this, but I am prepared to ask our posts what has been communicated directly by Morocco, Russia and the United States. The Prime Minister and I were still in contact with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry this morning. It is obvious that we have regular contact with the services. This often goes from intelligence to intelligence. But we can also look at what happened with our embassies. Finally, for the National Security Agency (NSA), I confirm that we coordinate this activity in Foreign Affairs and that at any time a security accreditation can be withdrawn. This has been the case in recent weeks for several accreditations in Tihange. This may also be the case in a number of other areas. Here too, it is of course quite possible to provide more information. We will certainly have the opportunity to return, including by hearing from those responsible for this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u42	Mr President, I shall first answer Mrs Onkelinx's few questions. You asked me what happened immediately after the Zaventem bombing. I have already mentioned this, but I will add a few points on the timeline. We started by bringing together the federal leadership unit. Immediately after, the OCAM decided to move to Level 4. This decision was communicated at 8:33 a.m. Secondly, we have increased the protection of all airports across the country by deploying police and military forces. We have triggered the FEB-alert for the companies located in the port and the Seveso companies. We stopped the movement of public transport in Brussels before the attack on the metro. Indeed, at 8:50 a.m., we chose to evacuate him preventively. A few minutes later, at 9:11 a.m., the explosion occurred at Maelbeek Station. Then we stopped the traffic of buses and trams and closed the stations in Brussels. The police and customs have established border control. We activated call center 1771 immediately after. You asked me what information DJSOC provided to the liaison officer. During the commission of inquiry, we can show you the fax or email. The fact is that we are aware through the databases of the criminal acts committed and the reasons why he was convicted. It was detailed in the fax. The liaison officer was asked why he was arrested in Turkey. He didn't know that at that time. As far as DJSOC is concerned, this is the responsibility of the judicial police. Minister Geens will be able to better inform you on this matter. Mrs Onkelinx, I certainly do not want to minimize what happened in Malines; an investigation was immediately initiated. The employer is the college and the police council of Malines. Perhaps it would be useful if I invited, but I am not the minister responsible, the chief of corps of Malines, to speak with him. Mr Ducarme, why did the OCAM take the decision to bring the alert level back to Stage 3? You have to ask them the question. They're making their communication. As you say, it's an independent agency. She's making decisions. I can only remind you of the definition of Level 3 and the difference with Level 4. You know them! According to the information they receive from the seven support services, from their international counterparts, if they do not have an indication of an imminent threat, the alert is reduced to level 3. It's always the same reasoning. Mr Pivin, with regard to communication via mobile telephone networks, Brussels is a special case in our country with regard to the level of radiation. Radiation is limited to Brussels. Of course, the operation is normal under the usual circumstances and our colleague De Croo has already started a project with the three communication companies to examine the solution in this area. But in exceptional circumstances, this is a problem. With regard to the alert level reviewed every quarter of an hour, at 8:30 a.m., we went to the level 4 alert. The attack took place at 7.50 a.m. and at 8.30 a.m. we were on level 4 alert. An evaluation was conducted every 15 minutes. Mr Verherstraeten, you asked if we've already started the disciplinary procedure against the liaison officer. No, we're still looking at the best procedure, but I'll start a procedure. In any case, a report shall be drawn up. About DJSOC, I just told you who's gonna answer. Since the arrest of Salah Abdeslam and until Tuesday 22 March, the threat level has indeed remained at 3. We were very concerned about any reprisals of IS or Daesh. Again, I repeat that Level 3 means that the probability of an attack is very high. At Level 3, however, we do not have concrete information from where and when. I can add the following. Personally, I think a level 4 is easier to manage than a level 3. At Level 4, we have information about place and time, which makes it easier. Level 4 is more intense, because the threat is very eminent, but it is easier to manage. If we don't have any additional data or any additional indications, we'll stay in level 3, expanding everything we have in the house, all over the territory. More specific questions have been asked about the number of Belgians. I would like to prepare myself for a committee meeting behind closed doors or to answer a question in the Committee on the Interior. Now I don't have that information. The same applies to the evaluation of the liaison officer. Perhaps it would be better to discuss this in a committee of inquiry behind closed doors than here. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions put to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u43	Mr President, first of all I would like to comment on what Mr Vande Lanotte and Mr Pas said about what I said yesterday about Ibrahim El Bakraoui. If my words in that part are misunderstood, I would very much like to apologize. Mr Vande Lanotte and Mr Pas, the only thing I wanted to say is that, as far as I can tell, that is speculation, and that is probably not sensible from the judicial past and the recent involvement of Ibrahim El Bakraoui, his situation has not been that of the leader of the team. If you've taken offense, I understand. I certainly did not want to hurt the victims, on the contrary, I tried to make it clear that this attack might not have been his initiative. That doesn't mean he couldn't have made a difference. I think someone who wanted to hear me correctly understood, but I want to sincerely apologize to those who have misunderstood me. When I said earlier that the two brothers had been followed up fairly correctly in the area of judicial and criminal execution, I did not want to minimize their criminal past. In view of the fact that the services only had knowledge of that criminal past, I should like to return to that in a moment. I would like to say that in circumstances these two persons have once again been relatively well followed up by the judicial services and the criminal enforcement services. I should not do that, because I could say that I was accused of wanting to move the ball through earlier, that is not my intention at all, Mr Van Hecke. I would even like to say that, although I am not at all responsible for the justice houses, the justice houses have, at first sight, been relatively competent in following up these people. I do not want to hide the issue, nor do I want to minimize it, and I do not want to say ten times, Mrs Pas, that Khalid served four fifths of his sentence. I just want to say that those who ask for a change to the Lejeune Act must realise that it is not only a question of how long one stays in prison but also of what happens in prison and whether the prison regime gives one a good chance of getting out better. At some point the question will come, I haven't heard them, but I may not have heard everything, whether these two people in prison have been radicalized. That is also what we need to talk about. However, this is not just a question of the Lejeune Act. Sitting four-fifths of the sentence seems reasonable in every country. I know Ibrahim hasn't been in prison for so long, Mrs Pas, I don't want to escape that problem, but he too has served longer than the minimum of one-third, almost half. The conditions under which provisional release was granted are numerous. I'm not going to give you a full reading of these conditions for the two brothers. There are always the general conditions and the specific conditions. I would just like to point out, as far as Ibrahim is concerned, that there was indeed a defence to travel abroad without the consent of the competent authority. To be quite clear, I read it to you: "prohibition to leave the Belgian territory for more than a month" – less than a month was allowed – "without the prior consent of the court". I thought I pointed it out yesterday, but you're right to ask me again to explain it well. When I am asked why I am assuming ministerial responsibility, it is because I believe that information about Mr Ibrahim El Bakraoui from Turkey has not been treated optimally. It could have been dealt with more actively and fed into the section of the sentencing court. Mr Nollet, it is clear that, when Mr Ibrahim El Bakraoui was tried by default on 21 August 2015, I believe, as to the failure to comply with the conditions of parole - on two occasions he had missed the appointment with the houses of justice - the sentencing court was not aware of the fact that he had gone to Turkey and had been arrested in Gaziantep. Colleagues, as regards the data banks of our police services and the data banks concerning the terro, very relevant comments from Committee P are being dealt with for the time being in camera by your committee. When I spoke earlier about the OCAM/OCAD data bank, I also said that the prosecutor's office did not have automatic access to the police data bank at all. I'm not saying anything new and we'll have to review the issue next Tuesday. I am only trying to explain that everyone knows that the first time that the services are actively receiving information about Khalid El Bakraoui's involvement in terrorism is after the attacks in Paris, when an arrest warrant is executed about him. It is at this point that the services notice that this is interesting, because they also know Ibrahim. The latter could be interesting information as well. The services believe that it needs to be reported internationally. Mrs Onkelinx, in August, when the court for the enforcement of sentences ruled by default that the provisional release was revoked, since he was not aware of it, it was normal for the report to be purely national. I know that there is an ability to report internationally, but it is rarely used and never in normal time. It is not provided for by law that you know well about the detainees' external position. To this extent, this option, which probably exists, has not been used because we were not aware of the facts. That's why I'm assuming. I think it should have worked better. I also believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that this data is integrated into the future. Even if Turkey only told us, on January 11, 2016, why exactly this gentleman had been arrested, we could have guessed it because of where he had been arrested. That is why I think that at this level of information integration, we could do better in this case. Indeed, on 14 July, for reasons external to us, he could not have been arrested, even if we had known later that there was a risk of terrorism. I believe there are extenuating circumstances, such as the fact that the Turks intervened so late, or the fact that our services, since the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, are overwhelmed with information. I'm sorry to say that, but there's too much for the staff present. But you know that we are recruiting more under the security provisions that have been made available to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. That is why we have not been able to do what is necessary when the time comes. The reason for this is a lack of integration of information. Mr Nollet, I hope to be clear on why I am assuming this. Mrs Onkelinx, with regard to your question on State Security and the information available to it, in view of the communications we have all read on the Internet and in Haaretz, I think I can tell you that it is not usual – and you know as well as I do, since you have been Minister of Justice – to transmit such information to an almost plenary meeting of Parliament which is not at all held in camera. We will have the chance to see each other on committees P and I. In any case, I can tell you that we did not have any indications of an attack on Zaventem, which were allegedly transmitted by foreign intelligence services. I won't say any more today. I hope that's enough for you right now. Ms. Lahaye-Battheu asked why a national report on Ibrahim El Bakraoui had not been issued earlier. I think it is very rare to do so before a revocation. It is certainly possible, but we could not know in May that he was in Turkey. This is clear from Mr. Jambon's chronology. Once again, I answer a question that concerns the houses of justice. We have to deal with the problems in an integrated way, without saying: "it is the fault of this one or this one". That's not my goal at all, I'll tell you again. In the approach to terrorism, police, justice and the courts should work in an integrated manner. With regard to the sixth state reform and the houses of justice, I do not feel that it should be pointed out that they would not have worked properly. We have also very easily received all the information from the French Community in this area. Unfortunately, Mr Verherstraeten, I cannot inform you of that account. I know that today the newspapers have circulated the message that the payment of EUR 25 twice a month that Ibrahim had to do to the bourgeois parties was made until May, when he left. He didn't do that anymore in June, but he did it again in December. I cannot give you any further details on this, but I will certainly communicate as well as possible in the context of a forthcoming meeting. At least it points out that at that time he hid his involvement in any terrorist attacks against our services, although at that time, because his brother Khalid was involved in the attacks in Paris, he was internationally terminated by the Schengen services. Mr Terwingen, you have asked a very detailed question about Turkey. I do not want to go into any more detail about the links, because I think my fellow Members have replied a great deal. I do not want to go into our relationship with Turkey either. I just want to say that there have been a lot of meetings between our liaison officer and the Turkish services after 14 and 15 July and that this incident has never been mentioned or raised. I repeat that only on 11 January did the Turkish authorities inform us of the reasons why they had arrested the person concerned, following repeated requests. I'm still not saying Gaziantep shouldn't have ringed a bell. I am merely trying to contextualize what needs to be contextualised in the context of the numerous information sent to our services during this difficult period. Mr Bonte, I have heard very well your question about cooperation in local cells in the field of foreign terrorist fighters. You know that, like you, I am very much in favour of a better flow of information from the judicial services and even from the judicial services of the federal police to the administrative services and ultimately to the mayor. We have just had a private meeting with the mayors, in which I have again strongly insisted. In the course of that meeting, a meeting was held in my cabinet on 23 February in which we invited all the competent services to encourage them to share more and more information, which resulted in a promise from the judicial services. On the basis of the provisions laid down in the law and also in the FTF circular and in the area of the shared professional secrecy which I have already mentioned several times in the Counter-Terrorism Committee, we are therefore currently working, in consultation with the Communities, Home Affairs and, very importantly, the OMCWs, to regulate the shared professional secrecy as best as possible. You will ask when it will come, but you know that when I promise that something will come, it will come. For example, the King's Attorney could bring an action before the OCMW's. However, you all know that there is a whole tradition to change here. I recently received a whole delegation of doctors who demanded that the police pass on all the information when they were summoned at night. The police are doing their best, but it goes without saying that this is a whole change of culture which must operate in the direction of doctors, lawyers and judicial services as well as in the opposite direction. That is a whole conversion of culture to which I would like to contribute. Ladies and gentlemen, questions have also been raised by several of you on the question of interrogations. Some also asked questions about Mr. Abdeslam's interrogations in connection with his arrest. Of course, I'm not supposed to talk about instructions in class and the secret is sacred. The federal prosecutor nevertheless allowed me, a few minutes ago, to tell you that after the attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek, he no longer wants to talk. I shall close that answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is how I have answered most of your questions, as far as I can now, in truth and as well as possible. I could go into much more detail, but that does not always lead to clarity. I am therefore waiting for a second round if you think that I would have failed on certain points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u44	Thank you, gentlemen ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only two questions for the second round at the moment. There's also the reply. May I suggest that we combine the remaining questions with the replies? In this way, I respect the size of the political groups once again, and any group where someone wants to intervene in the second round can have the opportunity to do so. I would also like to propose a time limit, namely five minutes for all the groups represented in the Bureau and two and a half minutes for the groups which are not part of it. Can anyone live with that? Mr De Roover and Mr Luykx from the same group, you have five minutes together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u45	Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the government have rightly shown great openness in these matters. We need to know why we were together today: this is not about the totality of the dossier, but specifically about the Turkey section, what preceded it, what happened there and what followed. It is obvious that a lot of parts of the whole will still have to be dealt with, which were not discussed today. I hope that this has set a trend, namely that we will not hide anything and bring out what needs to be brought up. I will not be the only one who, in a number of facts that have been presented here today, has found with amazement that the sense of responsibility was not as strong everywhere as one can expect in these circumstances. It is also clear that we must make a distinction in terms of errors. First of all, there are the personal mistakes. With an overview as given here, they come out explicitly. We must dare to point the finger at them. Secondly, there are also the structural errors. If bad procedures are followed, no personal mistakes are made but mistakes are made. May I give an example from the whole series? When one finds here at a certain point that a given international signal is not mandatory, no one can be accused of not doing what should not be done. Politicians must then ask themselves whether it is not high time that this signal was made compulsory. We must make a strict distinction between less good elements that do not follow good procedures, on the one hand, and good elements in the corps that do follow bad procedures, on the other. The consequences are the same in both cases, but the political responsibility is fundamentally different at that time. The next parliamentary committee of inquiry will bring out a lot of similar things. I may speak for everyone if I say that even after the two ministers' speeches there are many questions left. On how we fight terrorism, there are still many questions that need to be answered after today. The more mistakes made by the Counter-Terrorism Committee and the parliamentary committee of inquiry are brought up, it may sound strange, how much we prefer it. We must have the ambition to leave the device better than we have. I am pleased that I was able to see the willingness, on the banks of many opposition groups, and certainly of the majority and of the ministers, not only to look up the problems but to find real solutions to them. Ladies and gentlemen, this applies to all of us. The public will watch very closely the way in which we deal with these matters. And the public is right to assume that we cannot and cannot afford escape routes here. This is our interpretation of the political responsibility, Mr President, which I would like to make very clear to all of us in my reply. I thank the Ministers for their willingness to continue their work in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u46	Mr President, Ministers, first of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Minister of the Interior, for Malines. It is important that you have contact on this. This had already been the case in certain problematic events, particularly in certain areas of Brussels. This is all the more necessary since the consequences of possible individual or service misconduct are dramatic. As far as the subway is concerned, if I understand correctly, within a few minutes, all the subway mouths could have been evacuated. You will understand that, as Mr Pivin has said, the Committee of Inquiry will be keen to understand what happened every minute between 7.58 a.m. and 9.11 a.m., the time when the drama occurred at Maelbeek station. After listening to both of you, I am convinced that individual faults have been committed. I will not go back to that point. You almost named the person who showed little diligence. That's the least we can say! But I have also become convinced that, beyond that, there is a problem at the service level and that the fault is collective. For example, you said that the liaison officer had contacted DJSOC in June and that DJSOC had interrogated him asking him why El Barkaoui had been arrested. But he didn't answer. And nothing happens. In July, we know he was arrested for terrorism. We know that we are dealing with a dangerous fugitive criminal, who, moreover, is radicalised and who represents a danger in terms of terrorism. Who was warned? Who? Has a police service been informed? Did his profile end up in a data bank? Has an international arrest warrant been issued? The committee of inquiry will tell us. But for now, all this is still strange. Minister of Justice, on 21 August, the sentencing court, which clearly does not know what is happening in Turkey, which is not aware of the arrest – it's a bit strange, he doesn't know anything – decides to revoke the parole. For individuals such as Ibrahim El Bakraoui, who was sentenced to one or more custodial sentences of more than three years, according to criminal policy guidelines, an international arrest warrant was to be issued automatically. Obviously, this has not been done. There are still many other issues, but obviously there have been individual mistakes, there have been collective mistakes. We have the feeling that information has not been exploited. Of course, we are going to ask ourselves whether or not we could have prevented the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u47	Mr President, much of our discussion is about the notion of responsibility. Responsibility may be the dysfunction of services or may be of a political nature. At the administrative level, does a director apply circulars, memos? At the political level, are a minister, a government normally diligent and prudent? It is a definition that is generally given for this. The question is, according to the facts brought to our knowledge, to your knowledge, by the press, by the services, what initiatives, the impulses, the coordinations of the directorates and the politicians have been. We know the path from delinquency to Syria, which brings us back to terrorism. That is what we want to discuss. I will conclude by saying that about Verviers, fourteen months ago, the newspaper Le Monde, on page 3 of its special edition yesterday, told us that we had already found a note explaining how to blow bombs at airports, with a diagram that corresponds strictly to that of Zaventem. Have these facts been brought to your attention? If so, what have you done with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u48	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for the answers. As I indicated, I consider that we are here in a first round of questions and answers. We talked about the responsibility of the liaison officer, we did not come to the issue of the diligence of the Turkish authorities. There is always this question of why there is no contact between the liaison officer and the DJSOC between 29 June and 20 July, with confirmation of the motivations related to refoulement only on 29. It's quite incomprehensible, let's say! Other issues are also pending in relation to the fact that it was sent back to Amsterdam, that the communication by Turkey was made too late. Clarification will be required in the light of these developments. It will also be important for us to be clear about cooperation with Turkey in this type of case. We will also be able to take stock of the tools available to these liaison officers, the recommendations that have been communicated to them. In short, this is an introduction that we are waiting for in this committee of inquiry to make it clear. The government wants, like us, transparency on the direct, indirect, older, new causes, to take stock of the responsibilities to arrive at recommendations, which will obviously enable us to make the axes of work, of fighting radicalism and terrorism more effective where they are not sufficiently effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u49	Mr President, I shall be very brief. We have not received an answer to four questions or the answer was not exactly what we had asked for. First of all, is it true that Abdeslam has only been questioned once? Was that interrogation just about what happened in Paris? Minister, you have replied that it is difficult for you to say anything about it and that you only know that he is not talking anymore. Our question was whether it was right that there was only an hour's interrogation, as the press says, and that the interrogation was only about Paris? You answer that you can tell us that he is not talking anymore and that you cannot tell us much about it otherwise. That is, with permission, a faint argument. After the Paris Attorney first reports what Abdeslam has declared and after your colleague Minister Reynders has also indicated that his interview shows that there are still plans, my question is not what happened afterwards, but whether sufficient attention has been given to what the plans are. Secondly, I am not sure whether I made my second question clear. Is it true that both brothers weren't on the OCAD list until the day of the attack? We understand that this is the case, which is quite incomprehensible. I'm still extremely friendly here, putting it that way. We cannot imagine that they were not on the list. However, as far as we know, neither of them was on the OCAD list. We see who is on the OCAD list. We will not give details here. Were they on that list or not? Thirdly, the question about the police zones, which my colleague has rightly asked, has not been answered either. Fourthly, there has also been no response to the question of whether instructions have been given by the respective ministers to liaison officers, in particular to the officer in Turkey, so that a clear policy framework has been created. Those were my questions. My colleague would also like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u50	Mr President, I have a very precise question for the Minister for Security on the safety of Zaventem. An Israeli newspaper indicates that the planned attacks on Zaventem and Zaventem were targeted by the Western intelligence services as well as by the Belgian intelligence service. First of all, is that right? Secondly, are you or is your cabinet in the week that preceded the attacks, informed about security issues or about an increased threat to the airport in Zaventem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u51	I am addressing the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor, just like Mr Gilles Vanden Burre. Together, you have five minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u52	Mr Jambon, first of all, the link with nuclear energy has already been mentioned by my fellow Members. I read on the Haaretz website that the link between this offender group and initiatives in the nuclear sector is very concrete. I am thinking specifically of the story of the top man. Is that why additional measures have been taken? Or does that have something to do with the threat level? Secondly, without wishing to be too polemical, Mr Jambon, your answer has disturbed me. We, the opposition, have been trying all along to ensure that this debate is conducted in a calm and constructive atmosphere. There is no democratic party that has so far felt the need to say: Mr Jambon and Mr None must, by definition, leave. That debate is being conducted correctly. You do not have the decency we have as Members of Parliament with regard to an official. You said that the problem lies with that official, with that liaison officer. Mr Jambon, I say this with some restrained anger, but I find that indecent. I agree with Mr Reynders who said just now that it is not appropriate to point the finger at the one officer. You did. In addition, my and other colleagues have shown that since 29 June 2015, the Counter-Terrorism Division of the Federal Judicial Police has also been informed. Mr Geens, you said that it was not enough, but you did not say what they did with it. Did anything happen to that at all? After all, Mr Jambon says: if these people are found on the Turkish-Syrian border, then the alarm bells must go off. The same applies to the Counter-Terrorism Division of the Federal Judicial Police. What has been done with that? Thirdly, Abdeslam and the link with the terrible events. You said he wasn't talking anymore, but you didn't answer the question of how long he's been interrogated and how long he's been talking. It is suggested that the attacks in Brussels were brought forward by the arrest of Abdeslam. What surprises me, then, is that a number of members of the government, Mr Reynders, declared after the arrest of Abdeslam that he was planning attacks in Brussels. Mr Reynders said that, at least, he suggested that Abdeslam was talking about attacks in Brussels. Mr Reynders woke up the members of Abdeslam, so think about what is said and what is not said. Mr Reynders, why did you say that? How do you look back on that today? After all, what should happen now? In view of the many questions that remain open, we in the Conference of Presidents will have to consider what information we still need. And we should do that during the Easter recess, not pending the committee of inquiry. The Committee of Inquiry must be a genuine operation, with openness and transparency. I think that someone from the opposition, who does not have to be from my group, can take the lead of that committee of inquiry, because the citizens still have frightfully many questions and are frightened about the functioning of police and justice. That committee of inquiry must give a true answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u53	Mr President, first of all, I will repeat a question which has already been asked by my colleague Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and to which, ladies and gentlemen, you have not answered. What about the strategy to communicate about your decision to resign, not to resign, at the time of the tribute ceremony? Was it concerted or not concerted? What led you to make this decision? I think it would be important to answer this question about what happened this week. I would like to return quickly to three points. There is much talk of communication between Turkey and Belgium. Little has been said about communications between Belgium and the Netherlands. On July 14, 2015, a plane landed on Dutch soil. What happens next? Could you inform us about communications and information flows between the Netherlands and Belgium? The next point is the databases. We know that there are a lot of problems. Just before this committee, we discussed in the Committee on Terrorism the databases and their reform, their usefulness and their misuse. I read yesterday in De Morgen that the central federal police database was largely out of service between June 2014 and summer 2015. This will require greater clarity. I'm finishing with one last item. I refer to your answer, Mr. Jambon, on the decision-making process. You say that at 8:50 a.m., the decision was taken to stop public transport in Brussels. It would be interesting, today or in a future meeting, to know the full chain of decisions and what happened until 9:11 a.m. to understand the sequence of decisions at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u54	Mr President, the Minister of the Interior, you have tried to take the lead on a lamp player, when there is very clearly a whole chain of malfunctions. In the answers we have just heard, there is this liaison officer, the federal police, Mr Geens admits that at the level of justice, some information has not been processed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also admits that the Head of Post was informed. From the outset, there are four people who are informed and aware of the existence of this individual and of the fact that he is considered by the Turks to be very dangerous and a terrorist. It is not considered by the Turks by chance to be dangerous. Firstly, it is based on a cooperation agreement between Turkey and Belgium which specifies that this type of individual must be arrested. Secondly, it is because it is a Belgian who comes from Schiphol and everyone knows that Belgian jihadists are taking the Schiphol road to Syria. Thirdly, there is this statement in any case by the spokesman for the Turkish embassy, on which I have not received an answer. Maybe it's false information. According to the Turkish authorities, he was registered "in a register of possible foreign fighters established with European countries". I wish I had an answer to that question. Do not the Turks tell us the truth or, from the outset, is it entered in a register of possible foreign fighters? Finally, we did not get an answer on what happened after he arrived in Schiphol. What was the cooperation between the Belgian and Dutch authorities at that time? This is the case, but I repeat that there is obviously other very disturbing information that I mentioned a few weeks ago, particularly about the knowledge that some people had, it seems, of the dangerousness of the Abdeslam brothers as early as the summer of 2014. I conclude with this question to the Minister of Justice. You're telling us that Salah Abdeslam hasn't spoken since the attacks. I thought he was in secret and, therefore, he did not have access to news. Is this a new malfunction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u55	Mr President, there are still a lot of answers to be given. Not all the questions have been asked yet. Nor have we received an answer to all the questions asked, for example on Mohamed Belkaid. On what we already know, I have three brief elements of reply. First of all, it's not one mistake by one man, but it's the system that didn't work. The liaison officer who is endorsed today provided the information to the competent central service in Brussels, for the criminal who was arrested in Turkey and brought to the Netherlands. It is with that competent department in Brussels that there seems to have been insufficient responses. The information that we now have shows that the necessary alarm bells did not ring. So the system for which the Minister is responsible and for which you have to ensure that it works has not worked. Second, the brothers El Bakraoui. By the way, I am glad to hear that Mr Onkelinx now believes that they are serious criminals. When we discussed this in Parliament in 2010 and warned against those two brothers, her party dismissed us as a bunch of dumb-ass because we asked them to ask for severe punishment instead of doing it as a failure diverse. Minister Geens, you said that the judicial history of these two brothers is not as negative as it is now proposed. As an additional question, would I have liked to know exactly what their judicial history is like? They both have a criminal past. The longer their criminal record, the worse the decision to release the Brussels Criminal Court early and the worse it is that the competent authorities failed to follow up on the liaison officer's notification. So the length of the criminal record is definitely in play. Thirdly, there is the Lejeune Act. Thank you for your reply, Minister. If anything happens, the Lejeune Act always comes up. We have already asked for its abolition after the Dutroux case. Every legislative period we make a proposal to deal with conditional release, and we do so to this legislature. I hope that, despite your answer, you are prepared to do so at last. It will not be up to us, and I understand that there are fellow Members who can find them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u56	Mr President, first of all, as far as Minister Geens' remarks tell us that there is too much information about the staff available, this confirms what I said in my previous speech. Then we say that after the attacks! Is there a need for attacks to make this kind of finding? That's pretty scary! Moreover, are there any other fighters among the returns that Ibrahim El Bakraoui and for whom there are the same malfunctions? Is there a single case or are there others? After 29 June, why wasn't an investigating judge appointed to follow the case on the basis of the serious information in our possession about Ibrahim El Bakraoui? This is not just a discussion of the sentencing court. Why don't we set up an investigating judge to monitor the facts? With regard to radicalization in prison, an important issue because we know that it is a school for training terrorism, a law of 2005 is quite innovative in this area and it is not implemented. Why? As far as police war at all levels is concerned, does it exist or not? I invite you to observe what has been done in Spain, for example, by Judge Garzón, who has managed to grant all the services of justice, police and intelligence, including in the financial aspects to dry up terrorism. In passing, it can be pointed out that Spain has stopped military intervention and that positive results can be observed in the fight against terrorism. It would no doubt be appropriate to invite Judge Garzón to give us his experience, which lies at the opposite ends of the internal wars and the functioning of our country. In conclusion, gentlemen of the government, stop the measures that are only show and tackle the real malfunctions!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u57	I now give the opportunity, for the last time in this sitting, to the three Ministers to answer the supplementary questions. Mr Jambon, you have the floor. Mr. Secretary Jambon, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u58	Mr President, at the end we are all fellow Members. It's been two days, or we were colleagues!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u60	You are right, Mrs Onkelinx: if ever, after the answers of the ministers, a member asks for the floor, I have an obligation to grant it to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u61	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, I do not know if anything has come to the intelligence services on safety in Zaventem. Colleague None can say that. In any case, no information has come to us from the intelligence services which required additional security measures in Zaventem. We have also not been informed of a specific threat at Zaventem. This would immediately have led to an analysis by the OCAD. That didn't happen. Mr Vande Lanotte, you asked a question about the OCAD and why these people were not on the lists. That's a fair question. We need to find out. The OCAD has procedures and receives its information from the seven support services and from the international homologs. I think we should think about that. That name fell during a meeting and did not end up on the list. I believe that there has been a strict application of the procedures, with the information of those seven support services or of the homologs being provided. The question to which we must answer is whether information circulating in such meetings should be entered into its databases by the OCAD? Evident should be answered in the affirmative, but that information must also be validated. They are not allowed to be picked up, so I think we need to look more closely at that. With regard to additional measures for nuclear power stations, I did not reply to Mr Nollet's questions on safety clearance because it is a competence of Minister Reynders. The reason for additional military service at nuclear sites had nothing to do with a specific threat. That debate has started again after the photos with the boss of the SCK. Then we had another meeting with Electrabel. Electrabel then said he was prepared to pay for additional protection. They have paid protection, but that has nothing to do with a specific threat to nuclear power stations or sites. Mr Calvo, that my answer has disturbed you does not bother me at all. You are right that I should have answered that in my first reply. Look, I never said that the chronological order I gave was the only thing wrong with it. I have answered the question of what the facts are and what has led to the investigation of conscience that I have done on the basis of whether I should assume political responsibility for this. That's what it was about, nothing else. I'm not judging yet. You ask for openness, transparency and all the elements of the dossier. I'll give them to you. That, and nothing else, has led me to think about how I would best accept my political responsibility. I'd like to put that in context. Mr Vanden Burre, I am sorry, but I do not have to answer the questions that are asked outside the time limit. It'll be for the next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u62	Mr President, I will answer two questions. As regards the contacts that would have been organised between our Dutch counterparts and the Belgian services after the plane landed in Schiphol, I refer to the letter from the Dutch Minister of Security and Justice. It is available, but we can transmit it again. The details of the contacts that were taken the day after the landing were included. Mr. Nollet asked me more precisely earlier about the number of people who would have been withdrawn from accreditation. Three investigations that were under way were accelerated, as we had moved to Level 4. Three accreditations have been withdrawn in this context. Another was because the person concerned had reacted a little too positively to the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u63	Mr. Justice Minister, do you feel the need to give further answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u64	Mr President, if you would let me know that I should not feel it, I would like to hear it. Is that what you wanted to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u65	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u66	Good, because I just want to be of service. First of all, I would like to answer Mrs Onkelinx. Mrs Onkelinx, with regard to the obligation of an international arrest warrant, of which you are convinced, I could review my copy if you give me convincing arguments on this matter. As far as we know, there is no obligation in the law, nor in Circular 11/2013, as long as the services – I am talking about those who must launch the international arrest warrant – are not aware of the fact that the person concerned is abroad. As I explained to you, we didn't know. We should not have ignored it, but we were unaware of it and therefore I do not believe that there is an obligation. You probably know better than I do; you give the impression of it anyway. I'm coming to Mr. Salah Abdeslam. Vande Lanotte and Dallemagne, I must be brief about this – and I can only be – but as clear as possible. Mr. Salah Abdeslam, after the attacks, refused to speak. In my opinion, it can be inferred that we tried to interrogate him after the attacks. I can't be more specific. Mr Dallemagne, as far as the isolation in which he is concerned, there is a right of defence in our country. Is this answer enough? The viewers don't see it, so I guess I don't have to explain it any further. As far as radicalization is concerned, from 11 April, the wings of Ittre and Hasselt are opened to try to isolate people who are "contagious" and who make others more radical than they should be. But it is certain, and that is why I have proposed to talk about it again, that we have a long way to go in view of the importance of the risks of this radicalisation. Mr Vande Lanotte, you asked about the OCAD. You're right, they weren't on the OCAD list. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that, once again, the OCAD itself was informed very late, namely in December, of the fact that they represented a risk. In practice, however, this would have made little difference, given the exchange of services. Nevertheless, I think they should have been on the OCAD list. I don't want to ignore that at all. I just want to confirm that you're right. Mr Dallemagne, for the time being, 1,200 Belgians are on the Turkish non-entry list. These are persons who are not eligible on Turkish territory. The number we're talking about is huge. Despite our repeated requests, we do not know who is on this list and we do not know why. But we suspect that some of these people should not be there. It cannot therefore always be considered that, because a person is expelled from Turkey, he or she is necessarily dangerous. But I repeat that this does not mean that being arrested where Mr Ibrahim El Bakraoui was not an indication. That's the only thing I can say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u67	After Mrs Onkelinx's point of order, I will give the floor to all members who still wish to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u68	Mr President, in order for Parliament to have the last word properly, I would say that, in the context of this last salve, disagreements of interpretation have arisen. As far as I am concerned, I maintain that the text does not say what you are claiming, minister. But it doesn't matter! For the rest, many questions have not been answered. This is not abnormal, since the commission of inquiry has been announced and we will continue to investigate. However, in this second ministerial address, no clarification was given as to what would allow us to understand the reason for the attacks of 22 March and individual and collective faults. So I'll come back to that in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u69	I would like to thank the Minister for, among other things, the clarification on the OCAD. This has yet to be looked at, but let us not turn it into a central issue. I do not understand the problem of the question about Abdeslam; we will come back to that. What we are asking for is just how often he was interviewed in the interim period and what he was talking about. Why the questions? Firstly, because of the statement made by Minister Reynders, who said that this was planned. It would then be thought that more will be said about this. I should like to go into this in more detail in the Committee of Inquiry. We must not necessarily know what he has said. In view of the communication between the arrest and the attacks, the question is whether attention has been paid not only to his participation in the Paris attacks, but also to whether we should expect anything. Were you asked about that or not? The newspaper says, without us having put it there, that there was only one one hour interrogation during that period, and that it was only about Paris. We have simply asked for clarification on this. I don't quite understand what the problem is to answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u70	Mr President, I understand that we will not have more details on a series of elements today. We will have to go back and the Conference of Presidents that follows will allow us to see how we organize our work. Mr Jambon and Mr Geens, as regards the communication regarding the resignation, I have not heard anything in either your first or your second reply. Why does this communication fall just before the tribute? Did he agree that there was a communication or did he agree not to talk about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u71	Mr President, I fully endorse Mr Vande Lanotte's comment on the one hour of interrogation. I, too, do not understand that. It is clear that the person concerned stopped talking after the attacks. However, the question is whether it is correct that he was questioned only once in the three days before the attack, for an hour. If you do not know that, I agree with you that you are asking and that we will be given a ruling on this in the next few days. With regard to the role of the federal police in their own country, you state that it has not been dilapidated enough. The question was, however, what did the federal police do? You may not know that today. If you do, I expect an answer. If you don't know today, I expect to get an overview in a few days of exactly what the federal police have done with the information at the time she received it and who was contacted or not. If the answer is that the police didn't do anything, it's obvious. We expect some clarification on this at a forthcoming committee meeting, which will be decided at the Conference of Presidents after this meeting when it can take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u72	Mr President, at the end of this meeting, many questions remain unanswered, either because the ministers did not answer them or because we did not have time to ask them in the allotted time. The mass is so great that, of course, we cannot address all aspects. The question that arises is the continuation of the work. I know that the Conference of Presidents will meet. We are not there, and therefore we will not have our say. I think it is important, and I would remind you once again, that this committee of inquiry does not become a kind of funeral. We have to act quickly. If it is slow to set up, commissions such as today's must be held in the coming days and weeks, pending the start of a commission of inquiry. Finally, I fear that we will move forward at two speeds, only in the examination and passage of bills, we will move forward very quickly, without analysing the malfunctions, while the analysis and conclusions that we might draw from the commission of inquiry may show that we are standing by the plaque on the laws we are working on. I'm afraid we'd put the plow before the ox.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u73	Mr. Jambon. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u74	No, it was very close. On the issue of communication, I think it was not a communication plan. These are just the facts as they happened. On Wednesday night, we had some talks with the Prime Minister. The latter decided to meet the Kern on Thursday morning. As you know, before a kern, there's always a lot of reporters on the sidewalk. There, some members said why Kern was meeting. After Kern, we were asked questions and answered them. There was no communication strategy. We are careful, we should not be too close to the 2:00 p.m. ceremonies, but we still had to give answers to the questions asked, as I am now doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u75	I would like to say two more things. Firstly, as far as Salah Abdeslam is concerned, Mr Vande Lanotte is right. I understand he wants to know exactly how many hours he was questioned before the attacks. I don't know. Secondly, what I do not know to talk about it with sufficient detail and knowledge of the facts, so I have been careful about the flow of information, which you have felt is exactly what happened to the information provided by the Turkish liaison officer in Belgium. I know that at least it wasn't in the criminal court on 21 August. I wanted to make that clear. For the rest, I will give you more text and explanation as soon as the detail is clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u76	Mr President, I will be brief. Minister, I have already felt more convinced of your comments, especially at the beginning of the session when you attacked the liaison officer, than in your last answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u77	Mr President, on the order of business. A number of agreements will shortly be made in the lap of the Conference of Presidents. We will have the Integrated Report which will include the many dates. However, I would like to ask the government to facilitate our future work by committing itself to a timeline on which the various elements, including those which Minister Geens still wishes to examine, have been included. I hope that this committee can reach a consensus on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-25-54-commissie-ic373x.u78	That seems to me to be a fair question. It would be a good thing for the government to try to merge the information we have received, and in particular the two or three timelines, into one timeline, in which it will tell us when what happened. Can we leave it at that, ladies and gentlemen? Thank you for your positive cooperation.
