ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u1	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I was asking you, some time ago, about attacks of a homophobic nature that would be qualifiers of jihad. You then told me that, pending further investigation by the justice services, it was premature to provide precise answers on these facts. Vice-Prime Minister, today I question you for another drift which unfortunately joins the first one already set out. Homosexuals are assaulted because, in the street, their emotional behaviour towards their companion reports them to be gay. It is enough for them to hold their friend's hand so that the insults soon come, then the blows, whether or not the gays in question react to the insults. Some people even got out of their vehicles and beat up by young people working in groups. Every time the police are obliged to intervene and call the care services to provide relief and assistance to the unfortunate. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, have you received any further information from your colleague, the Minister of Justice, following the investigation, concerning attacks on the home of homosexuals by candidates for jihad? More prosaically, is there the emergence of homophobic attacks linked to the discourse and especially the horrific acts perpetrated by Daesh against homosexuals? A transgender was stabbed in Etterbeek a few weeks ago, and a gay man was killed at his house. Has the number of complaints in this regard increased and to what extent? You have reported that the police are watching on the ground and I thank you for that. Have you asked or are you going to ask the federal police to strengthen surveillance, at night and at night, in gay neighbourhoods not only in Brussels but also in other Belgian cities such as Liège or Antwerp? You also indicated the work of the LGBTQI information associations. Have you had any feedback from them on this issue? Have you set up or intend to set up periodic meetings or arrangements for exchanging information with the associations and traders concerned, in order to act as quickly and effectively as possible? Homosexual life in Brussels, particularly in the vicinity of an embryonic pedestrian and in a situation of Brussels businesses made difficult by the tragic events in our country, is an important element of Brussels' economic dynamism. Above all, our country must remain at the forefront of nations where the possibility of living its life, regardless of its sexual orientation, is a full and complete right and reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u2	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, on your first question concerning the instructions of jihad candidates for these attacks, I must refer you back to my colleague Koen Geens. With respect to your two following questions, because of the sensitivity of certain data that may affect privacy, alleged race or ethnic origin, political, religious or philosophical preferences, union membership or sexual orientation, these data are not recorded in the BNG police database. Therefore, it is not possible, on the basis of the information in the BNG, to provide a more detailed answer to the question of homophobic violence by candidates for jihad. The ordinary offence, e.g. intentional assault with a homophobic motive, is not repeated in this case. Moreover, the link with Daesh cannot be confirmed on the basis of the data in the BNG. The table below shows the number of incidents recorded by the police in terms of homophobia, but not only by jihadists, as recorded in the BNG on the basis of the national minutes, for the period 2011-2015. The data are from the data bank closed as at 22 April 2016. Here are the figures: in 2011, 87 facts are recorded. In 2012, 163 facts. In 2013, 142 facts. In 2014, 192 facts. In 2015, 168 facts. There was a sharp increase from 2011 to 2012, and then the number stabilized with some margin. These are offences registered by the police under the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination. This Act penalizes discrimination on the grounds of age, sexual orientation, marital status, birth, property, religious or philosophical belief, political conviction, language, current or future health status, disability, physical or genetic characteristics or social origin. In this case, they are discrimination based on sexual orientation and/or gender identity. For example, an owner refuses to rent an apartment to a homosexual couple because of their sexual orientation. This is an infringement of the Anti-Discrimination Act, which will therefore appear in the relevant statistics. As regards the fourth question, indeed, violent crime, attacks on the integrity of the person and discrimination constitute one of the ten phenomena of insecurity included in the National Security Plan (PNS) 2016-2019 presented on 7 June 2016 and to which the police and all other bodies concerned pay particular attention. This SNP is the driving force behind police operations and is translated into strategic and operational objectives in the field. It is important that the NSP be translated at the local level after scanning and analysis of local security issues. The alignment of the SNP with the zonal safety plans is envisaged. In addition, a regional security plan for the Brussels Region is being developed. These police commitments can be reflected in local plans. These commitments may also be part of the regular operation of local police services. The basic police functions are logically carried out by the local police forces. So I will not ask the federal police to strengthen night and evening surveillance in the gay neighbourhoods of Brussels or other cities in our country. In response to your fifth and sixth questions, I met the LGBTQI association in the course of 2015. I have not recently received a concrete return from him. The association actively collaborates with the Diversity Department of the Federal Police and with the network of reference police officers on discrimination and hate crime. The designation of reference police officers by the local police and for front-line units of the federal police has been provided for following Joint Circular No. 13 of 2013 of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General at the Courts of Appeal, circular on the policy of research and prosecution in relation to discrimination and hate crime, including gender discrimination. To date, 168 reference officers have been appointed to the integrated police force, including 36 for the federal police and 132 for the local police. In addition, I invite you to ask your questions to my colleague, Elke Sleurs, Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u3	Minister, I thank you for your particularly strong response. I will certainly ask your colleagues Mr Geens and Mrs Sleurs ad hoc questions. I would like to thank you for the fact that the presence of military personnel in the city during the day has had the effect of reducing the number of attacks, even if that was not the goal. Unfortunately, these attacks often take place in the evening and at night, in neighbourhoods where there are gay settlements. That's a big problem. Assaulters do not discriminate against nationality, and some of these attacks are also directed against French, British or Dutch nationals. Two days later, the press in these countries echoed this. This obviously gives a very bad image of our city and our country when we are "a champion" in terms of openness and emancipation towards sexual minorities. For this reason, dialogue must be strengthened, also with the mayors of the Brussels Region or Antwerp. In this context, it is important that the mayors realize that this phenomenon is worrying and unacceptable. It is absolutely necessary to cut the grass under the foot of all the ambitions in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u4	Minister, the task of maintaining public order places an important obligation on our security forces during every demonstration and every strike movement in public space. We had another example last week at the last national demonstration in the Brussels-Capital Region. In addition, we are still level three. What specific police supervision had to be mobilised for all these demonstrations and pickets on public spaces and channels of communication? What was or was the cost of this mobilization of the police services in the first half of 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u5	Mr. Pivin, it is not possible to distinguish between demonstrations and pickets. Indeed, these types of events are the subject of a single encoding under the general heading "manifestations". The table attached to the reply contains the commitment of the intervention force, the ICK, its hypothetical capacity and the special means of the federal police for the demonstrations that took place in the first half of 2016. For the special means, here is how many times the special means have been used: for the federal police, the number of police officers in the intervention force is 1,516. For the local police, the number of police officers in HyCap is 2,436. Here is the number of times the special means have been used: the sprinklers 50 times, the arrest team 2 times, the team proves 8 times, the video team 7 times, the Locom team 8 times and the ABC (armoured vehicles) 22 times. We do not have data on the specific engagement of the police areas in their territory, where the demonstrations took place. The calculation of the cost of this mobilization is not available. Taking into account the fact that an order service for a demonstration is on average equivalent to 12 hours of service for the federal police, the number of hours provided by the supervision of the demonstrations that took place in the first half of 2016 amounts to 18,192. For the local police's HyCap engagement, the number of hours provided for the supervision of the demonstrations that took place in the first half of 2016 amounts to 29,232.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u6	That's impressive, Minister. I assume you don't have any indications as to whether this framework has been changed because we're in Level 3. In other words, does level 3 alert have an impact on the number of hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u7	Certainly, because this level 3 – we had a level 3 after Verviers and then Paris-Charlie Hebdo – is justified by the fact that we targeted soft targets, which by definition corresponds to the demonstrations. This means that in the situation of "terrorist" level 3, there will be more accompanying measures for these events than at the lower levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u8	Mr Minister, I asked this question this morning to your Defence colleague, but it obviously also concerns your department. Since the beginning of 2015, our military have been supporting the police to maintain law and order and ensure the security of our public spaces. A Memorandum of Understanding dated March 2015 between the Interior and Defence governs this collaboration. While the primary purpose of the military is not to guarantee public safety alongside the police, it is clear that this presence is part of his profession and supports security at this time of extreme threat. Operationally, support appears to be effective. We also see this in opinion polls among our compatriots and, of course, through the testimonies of the police and the military. We were also able to observe it when the acts to which we were subjected in Zaventem and in the metro were perpetrated. During defence support missions, are police services still present, on patrol or on a static mission, alongside the military or are they sometimes located in locations other than the military? What exactly is the scope of the military's support to the police? Your colleague told me earlier that, in any case, the military must obey the instructions of the police and cannot take any initiative without being validated by the police. Finally, how do military patrols communicate with police and relief services? The Minister of Defence informed me this morning that we were using the ASTRID network. Do you confirm that? Is this currently the best procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u9	Mr. Pivin, missions are preferably carried out in the presence of a police officer, under the command of an administrative police officer. If such presence is not possible, the necessary police means of communication will then be made available to ensure the immediate communication and exchange of information. Second, the mission of the military detachment is limited to the security of persons, posts, places and buildings and the prevention of unauthorized intrusion. These detachments are also empowered to control access to the buildings, places or posts assigned to them. In the event of a suspicious situation or an incident in the premises, posts and buildings under the supervision of the military detachment, the military detachment shall immediately notify the responsible administrative police officer by radio. The military uses the ASTRID network very secure for this purpose. On March 22, we had problems with this device, not because it broke down but because it was saturated. In the meantime, we have dramatically strengthened the network, in particular by providing training to its users so that fewer users use this means of communication. We have taken the necessary steps to avoid what happened on that dark day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u10	Mr Minister, this was obviously one of the lessons of the first part of the committee of inquiry. Thank you, I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u11	Minister, I have been able to ask you several times about the need for optimal communication and information to the federations of traders and all retailers in the context of the terrorist threat. A communication platform for FEB and Unizo is in place as part of the missions of the Federal Crisis Centre. I do not know, however, whether the members of the Comeos federation are also integrated into this communication platform. Minister, what procedure was initiated in terms of communication and information to the merchants in the Rogier neighbourhood on 21 June, as part of what was initially analysed by the security services as a threat of a bomb alert in this area? Have some criticisms been made on this subject by representatives of Comeos? What guidelines have been communicated to these traders in terms of the accessibility of their staff and customers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u12	Mr. Pivin, with regard to corporate information, a communication structure has been agreed between the companies represented by FEB-VBO and the federal authorities in order to communicate to the federal authorities any suspicious behaviour and facts related to terrorism around companies, and to issue warnings and recommendations from the federal authorities to the FEB. The messages depart from or converge to the Crisis Center and pass through a central contact point at Belgacom. A specific FEB-Alert message for the events of 21 June was not considered necessary because the immediate threat had disappeared before the stores opened. The person with an explosive belt had been arrested at 0640 hours. A perimeter was established at 0536 hours. The Explosives Removal and Destruction Service (EDEDS) detonated the explosive belt at 0806 hours to prevent any risk. The established perimeter was maintained until 10:21 a.m. to allow a sweating to rule out any risk. The perimeter was lifted at 1021 hours and staff and customers were then given access to the complex. Local police contacted City2 management to keep them informed of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u13	Thank you for your full answer. I have no comment to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, the operational capacity of the Federal Police to support police areas, and more specifically the six police areas in the Brussels-Capital Region, is a crucial issue. You have taken strong initiatives in this area, including the federal reserve and the increase in the number of police recruitments each year, particularly in 2016 with the 1,400 police officers recruited taking into account the needs but also the shortage of recruitment in previous years. In view of the commitments that have been made at your ministry level, could you please tell me what the operational means of the Brussels dirco are currently in order to be able to support the police services of the Brussels areas? Could you tell me at what level, in terms of financial resources and operational capacity, the investments for the Brussels dirco in 2014 and 2015 were made? What are the planned investments to ensure support for the areas? Finally, with regard to the Federal Reserve, you indicated that you wanted to strengthen it, which you have begun to do. At what stage are you in the process of strengthening this reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u15	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the answer will also be communicated to you in writing because it contains many tables and figures. First, Circular GPI 44ter recalls that the ICK is the non-specialised intervention reserve of the Federal Police and is responsible for replacing, to the extent possible, the hypothecated reserve of the police areas for administrative police and judicial police actions in the fulfilment of the priorities of the security plans. It is therefore security support. In its desire to provide quantitative and qualitative support in the field of GNEP (negotiated management of public space), CIK Brussels provides daily reinforcements of specially formed, trained and equipped GNEP units of the order of a platoon, i.e. 40 police officers. It also provides, during special periods in accordance with Circular GPI 44ter or during peak days of event activities (major protest events, European Union summits, major festive events, etc.). and in accordance with the binding MFO-2 directive, the reinforcement of specially formed, trained and equipped GNEP units of the order of two platoons, i.e. 80 police officers, which corresponds to half the capacity of the ICK personnel, and while still providing structural missions, such as support to the police zone for the Brussels courthouse, for example. In general, CIK Brussels stands ready to support police areas with two platoons but, since the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem, its availability is reduced by a very regular commitment to secure the Brussels metro and, to a lesser extent, the Zaventem airport. Secondly, with regard to the specific financial resources allocated to the Brussels dirco in 2014, 2015 and 2016, I give you a table showing the figures for the years concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u16	Minister, I imagine that this table will be given to the commission. We know that the MR is in power with you, but I imagine that the committee is also entitled to all transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u17	It's for the committee's report. (...): Mr. Pivin took the text and already put it in his pocket!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u18	Mr Minister, instead of getting the figures in the report, it might be easier to mail them to the committee. The commission will then ensure that they are sent to all committee members. That'll be easier than including them in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u19	Yeah, we do that systematically. I address myself here to those who asked the question, we are going through everything for the report, of course. Thirdly, Mr Pivin, the Federal Reserve of Intervention of the Federal Police consists of two main elements: on the one hand, the intervention force (CIK) distributed throughout the arrondissements and, on the other hand, the Directorate of Public Security (DAS) located in Brussels. In the context of the recent optimisation of the Federal Police and the development of its organic table TO3, the theoretical capacities of these two entities have been increased as follows: the IKC has increased from 450 to 591 FTE; the DAS has increased from 235 to 377 FTE. In addition, as part of the Canal Plan, the federal government decided to further increase the capacity of the following entities in order to strengthen the general reserve, i.e. more than 325 FTEs, of which 180 were allocated to the DAS, 120 to the CIK in Brussels and 25 to the CIK Halle-Vilvoorde. Finally, the federal government also decided to add an additional capacity of 40 GTFs within the DAS as part of the migration approach in order to create a mobile treatment team for transmigrants and asylum seekers. For DAS, this translates into a total additional increase in its organic framework of 220 FTE compared to the initial capacity foreseen in the TO3 of 377. In the long term, the SAD's capacity is expected to reach 597 GTFs. These various increases in the capacity of the entities involved in your request must be translated into a real increase in the capacity actually available. This is achieved by the publication of vacancies within the framework of mobility within the integrated police in order to allow potential candidates to apply for and join them. You will find in the documentation provided an overview of the jobs published as well as the jobs actually allocated. As far as the intervention force is concerned, the current capacity is 149 FTE, without the 50 people of the Canal Plan in Brussels. In order to achieve the expected number of jobs, various initiatives have been taken which have resulted in the publication of jobs and/or the assignment of staff according to the scheme available to you. The following data relate to the recruitment of operational staff of the Public Safety Directorate directly involved in the management of public space throughout the territory. These data are processed by mobility cycle. Pending the 2016/3 mobility figures, the Public Safety Directorate can count on the arrival of at least 133 new employees. Their actual implementations are expected to follow the following schedule, depending on the elements that are known to date. These new staff include 3 Commissioners, 9 Principal Inspectors and 121 Inspectors. As the organic picture of the DAS is not actually filled, we hope to be able to open up operational jobs in the future and future mobilitys. At present, we are confident that 25 inspector positions will be opened within the framework of IPM 63. In the meantime, the integration of these 133 new employees will follow the following pattern: welcome (welcome word, explanation of the DAS, presentation of documentation and welcome gift), guided tour of the installations, logistic supervision, HRM supervision, training and retraining (GPI 48), training, transition, MP9, ISLP training, etc. As soon as the new employees have followed this integration path, the duration of which varies according to the size of the groups, they are available for operational services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u20	This is a path of integration which is indeed more followed. I have nothing to add at the moment: the answer is extremely dense and deserves to be deepened in the light of the figures provided. Perhaps I will come back to that, but I welcome the concrete and positive nature of the reinforcements that you are providing, Minister. Your vous and remerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u21	Mr President, Minister, in 2012 and 2014, the ISLAM party put forward candidates for the municipal, regional and federal elections. This political movement defends as a programme proposals that run counter to our democratic values, the separation of the Church and the State, fundamental freedoms such as equality between men and women and defends the primacy of Sharia over the justice of our country. This movement carries political Islamism and tries to use our fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of association or expression, to reject and suppress these democratic freedoms based on the humanistic values that unite us. As I have already said, this party that advocates religious communitarianism has no place in our democracy. It is imperative that our Constitution can be amended in order to make punishable, through the concept of abuse of law provided for in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, this type of political program liberticide and enemy of our democracy. The MR Group is committed to this and has, moreover, made a specific proposal on this subject. We hope that the latter can be adopted by all. On the other hand, another element remains rather cloudy. Indeed, it seems that this party has links with Islamic mobilities and foreign states. I had therefore put a question on this subject to the Minister of Justice, since the very funding of the ISLAM party could be problematic in the context of compliance with the rules in force in this area. I am thinking in particular of the law of 7 July 1994. Indeed, you know that Article 13 of the Constitution provides that legal persons cannot finance Belgian political parties and all their components and, therefore, their candidates, their elected representatives and their local sections. Minister, would you please let me know if any control of the party's spending and funding has already been carried out? If so, what methodology and when? What services and bodies have controlled the financing of this party, its components, its candidates and its elected officials? Is screening carried out to ensure that the law in force, including its provisions prohibiting donations of legal persons, is respected? If so, by what mechanism and by what methods of investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u22	Mr President, Mr Pivin, it seems useful to me to focus your questions in three points. First, with regard to the submission to elections of political formations that call into question our democratic values and fundamental freedoms, this issue should be compared with articles 19, 26 and 27 of the Constitution and article 11 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. When reading these provisions, freedom of association, and therefore freedom to form a political party, cannot be called into question if it is not the restrictions provided for by law which constitute necessary measures in a democratic society for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others in particular. It is therefore for the legislative power to initiate such a reflection of the restrictions if it deems it necessary. Secondly, with regard to the control of the expenditure and financing of the ISLAM party in the control of election expenses, it is the Parliamentary Commission for the Control of Election Expenses of the Federal Parliament which carries out this control for the federal elections, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Act of 4 July 1989. As far as regional elections are concerned, it is the regional parliament or the body it designates that carries out the monitoring, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 19 May 1994. I therefore invite you to contact these parliamentary bodies for further details. With regard to the financing of political parties represented in the Federal Parliament, as provided for by the Act of 4 July 1989, Article 15bis of the Act stipulates that such funding in the form of grants may be granted only if the political party in question includes, in its statutes or programme, respect for the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Similarly, Article 15ter of the Act provides that the payment of these endowments may be abolished if that political party or one of these components (elected, candidate or other) shows a clear hostility towards the rights and freedoms I have just mentioned. Finally, it is the responsibility of the Parliamentary Committee on the Accounting of Political Parties to monitor the financial report of the political party on an annual basis. Thirdly, it should be mentioned that legal financing has now been authorised since 1 January 2015 in the form of sponsorship, by the laws of 4 July 1989 and 19 May 1994, during European, federal and regional election campaigns. At the federal level, it is the responsibility of the Parliamentary Commission on Election Expenses and the Financing of Political Parties to monitor the sponsorship records introduced by political parties. In this regard, the Act of 7 July 1994 deals with election expenses in provincial, communal and CPAS elections for which the federal authority is no longer competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u23	Mr. Minister, thank you for these complementary elements that feed into an approach that is, of course, only at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u24	Mr Minister, this is a very short question. If police people experience psychological problems or are unstable, the Chief of Staff may decide to take away the service weapon of those police officers, inter alia, to prevent accidents with the service weapon, such as suicide or family dramas. During the holiday there was much to do in the press about whether or not to take a service weapon home and the question of who can give the command to do so. In this connection, Minister, I would like to ask a few questions for clarification. In what way is the number of service weapons taken from the police chiefs recorded? Is there a record of this? Can you give an annual overview of the number of service weapons that have been taken down by the Chiefs of Staff in the last five years? For what reasons were these service weapons mostly taken away? If there is no registration, do you see any possibility of dealing with it or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u25	No centralised data are available on the number of service weapons withheld either federally or locally. I cannot therefore give an answer to these questions or give a numerical explanation of the circumstances or why. When a service weapon is withheld or taken, as you call it, it will always be mentioned in the personal file of the person concerned. Follow-up to this measure will be carried out by the local chief of police or by a Director General in the Federal Police Department. A consultation with the occupational physician is always a must. The procedure on how to withhold a service weapon is set out in the regulations. With regard to your last question on the need for compulsory registration by the Chief Constable, I honestly do not see the added value of organising another administration at central level. The police themselves are not, to my knowledge, a asking party either. HR policy shall be an autonomous competence of each corps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u26	Agreed, but I think there should be the possibility for the federal police to know the reasons. Now suppose that these questions are also raised in the zoning councils, and that there would also be an answer like here, namely: 'We have no idea, we do not know how many cases it is.' I still think that the authorities should be given information on this. I'm a requesting party by zone or federal. What one knows, one learns from it. Now it seems as if even if it is not intended to include this information in the personal file. Zone chefs will not be able to discuss what the problems of these people are and why that happens. Perhaps it could be investigated whether a system in which this information is kept centrally would not be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u27	Minister, since the tragic death of a Stib supervisor, Iliaz Tahiraj, in April 2012, several measures had been taken at the time by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Joëlle Milquet, to strengthen the fight against crime and insecurity in Brussels public transport. These measures consisted in the actual arrival in 2013 of 400 additional police officers assigned, as promised, to the security of public transport in the Brussels-Capital Region: 250 police officers assigned to the six Brussels police zones, 50 additional police officers for the Federal Reserve, as well as the 100 police officers who came to join the ranks of the railway police. Last June, you announced that your services were going to conduct an assessment of the measures taken under the Milquet Plan in April 2012, and the relevance of their continuation, in response to an inquiry by the Brussels Minister responsible for mobility. You also informed us that some of the personnel seconded under the Milquet plan had already been redirected to other services under Organic Table 3 (TO3). Minister, among these re-directed personnel, what share will be allocated to the Canal Plan (disaggregated according to local police areas, central services and DJSOC)? What is the share dedicated to LPA/BRUNAT? Furthermore, can you communicate to us the contents of Mr Smet's reply mail announced during your previous speech on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u28	Mr. Kir, the letter you requested will be forwarded to you. With regard to the situation in the Brussels-Capital Region, the first phase for the Brussels-West area, the planned strength is 50 FTE. As of February 2016, there were 50 secondees; on September 1, 2016, there were 46 secondees on the ground. In the second phase, 66 seconded inspectors were designated and distributed as follows: Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone, 25; Midi police zone, 18; Brussels-North police zone, 23. On 1 October 2016, Dirco Brussels received 63 inspectors' diplomas on secondment from the GRG. Thanks to this, it will be possible to fill the current deficit of about 20 people and thus achieve a complete Canal plan. The 27 GTFs have been planned for SICAD and are distributed as follows: 5 police inspectors, 5 principal inspectors, 11 inspectors, 4 of which are level B and 7 are level C. In the case of police inspectors, in the absence of candidates in the various mobility cycles, an internal reassignment was envisaged for 4 inspectors in the context of the establishment of staff in TO3. Vacant employment will be offered to senior police inspectors in July 2017. The framework will be completed by 1 July 2017. As far as the 11 inspectors are concerned, only one job is provided within the framework of these various mobilitys. Information sessions are organised for members of CIK Brussels as well as in police schools to attract potential candidates. 10 jobs have been published in aspiring mobility. Aspirants are scheduled to arrive on May 1, 2017. Until effective members can complete the operational framework, secondments will be requested. With regard to levels B, no candidates in the mobility framework. External recruitment is under way. All members seconded under the Canal 1 and 2 plans are part of the general reserve of the Federal Judicial Police: 20 persons for the DGO for a one-time mission from 1 June to 30 September 2016. What happens to Mr Vanden Burre's question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u29	These are joint questions. The questions were asked and the answers were given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u30	Mr President, I will answer these two questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u31	Minister, Internet crime in our country has more than quadrupled in just five years. Over the past five years, the number of crimes committed via or thanks to the Internet has increased by 342 %. The Antwerp Attorney General Patrick Vandenbruwaene complains that the government has increased the number of investigators at regional computer crime units, the RCCU, only on paper. On average, almost a third of the frameworks are not complete. For example, the computer unit of the federal police in Brussels has to do with 34 people, which is 61 percent of the necessary capacity. The federal computer crime unit, the FCCU, has only 28 people or only 64% of the foreseen framework. In addition, more and more local police services are facing cybercrime. That's why Attorney General Vandenbruwaene pleads for the establishment of local computer crime units in the local police zones. Another idea of Mr Vandenbruwaene is a decryption order. That means that suspects can be prosecuted if they refuse to unlock their data. In fact, 75% of cybercrime investigations run counter to encryption, which makes the investigation difficult. Finally, Mr Vandenbruwaene called for consultation with internet and computer giants such as Apple, WhatsApp, Telegram, Facebook and Twitter. The following questions were asked to the Prime Minister, but referred to you. Can you confirm that the RCCU and the FCCU are suffering from a shortage of personnel? What efforts are being made to increase the number of staff? What is your opinion on setting up local computer crime units? What possibilities are there? What is your opinion on entering a decryption order? Has the government already consulted Internet and computer giants in the context of Internet crime? What is the state of play in the legal framework around the responsible disclosure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u32	Mr President, Mr Top, with the OT3 or Organic Table 3, the theoretical capacity of the CCU, both regional CCU and FCCU, was strengthened. Overall, theoretical capacity was increased from 228 to 301 members, or an increase of 13%. It can't be. When going from 228 to 301 members, that is more than 13%. That's not right. There is therefore an increase of many percentage points. The number of members has gone from 228 to 301. On 6 September 2016, that capacity was effectively filled in with 243 staff. There is therefore an increase from 228 to 301, of which 243 was effectively completed, i.e. 80.73 %. We give you the table about all the different elements. You will then find that the figure is from FGP Brussels with 62.5 staff to FGP Limburg with 133 staff. Some are fully filled in and some are different. So nine RCCUs or regional computer crime units, DJSOC, FCCU and DSU are not fully filled in. Five RCCUs are fully completed and two RCCUs score even above 100 %. RCCU Brussels, DJSOC and FCCU are indeed CCUs that are the least filled out. The actual implementation of the staff is difficult. As a result, several CCUs are currently suffering from a serious shortage of staff. The difficulty of staffing is due, inter alia, to the staff turnover and the lead time of recruitment and training, which lasts for two years, as specialised operational staff are recruited to do so. Other factors have to do with the differences in pay and working conditions in the private sector, which are better or appear to be better than police. In fact, information scientists or people with an information technology attitude are being brought in, which are also wanted in the private sector. A working group was set up to review the recruitment of CCU staff. In addition, places for CCUs are opened up as a priority in mobility. The results of the selection procedures for mobility 2016/3 are currently awaited. A new assessment of the situation will then be carried out with a view to taking measures to fill in the CCU capacity. We are following the situation very closely. After all, that gap needs to be filled. The emergence of local CCUS is a reality that we cannot ignore. The local police are right to seek their own solutions. This, on the one hand, has to do with a clear need at local level. On the other hand, it may also have to do with specialised support tasks, where the federal police do not fully fulfil its role due to staff shortages. A local CCU can, in my opinion, work in perfect synergy with regional CCUs at federal level, mainly in dealing with accessible files of crime on the Internet or carrying out quick, superficial forensic analyses of seized computer material and mobile phones using specialized software. This allows the local police to move their local investigations forward quickly and allows the RCCUs to focus on the own investigation of facts of serious computer-related crime, and on carrying out in-depth, specialised forensic analysis of complex files. In this context, good coordination between the two levels is crucial, as well as the guidance and certification of LCCU staff and equipment to ensure a quality of service. As far as your fourth question is concerned, I regret to refer you to Mr Geens, since this is his domain of competence. There has been no consultation at the moment and this is not planned in the future. Integrated police generally have good partnerships with Internet giants, for example in the context of identification claims. We do not take initiatives ourselves, because in the long run everyone is talking to everyone. At European level, however, these contacts are the responsibility of the Commissioner for security. We receive regular reports on this at the meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers. As far as your final question is concerned, the Centre for Cyber Security falls within the competence of the Prime Minister. I contacted him and got his answer for you, not to keep pinging. The Centre for Cybersecurity has prepared a draft brochure on the responsible disclosure of ICT vulnerabilities in Belgium. This brochure has been submitted for advice to the various parties and federal services involved, including the group of cybercrime experts from the College of Attorney General. On receipt of these opinions, a final version of the brochure will be published in two versions: a summary for the technicians and a full version. In this brochure, the CCB proposes that computer system managers be given the opportunity to apply a responsible disclosure policy. In that case, these administrators would give tacit permission to access their system within the meaning of the Criminal Code. However, the whistleblower will always have to respect the law, in particular the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, or the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. First of all, I'm glad I got the numbers. Like me, you're saying there's a shortage of staff. We must continue to look for solutions. Perhaps you could clarify something. You replied to my question about the efforts being made to resolve the shortage of staff, that this is difficult and that training takes two years as specialised operational staff are recruited to do so, with the link to mobility. So is it true that these functions are not actually open to non-policemen? Can citizens also be candidates for these posts? Did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u34	Let me say that citizens can be candidates, but then they have to be policemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u35	First the basic police and then the two years of specialization?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u36	No, that's full training, basic training and specialization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u37	That'll take about two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u39	Thank you for that clarification. I am also pleased that you are making the link with the evaluation of the measures to be taken, whether the implementation can be processed more quickly or better so that the capacity of the CCU can be increased in the short term. After all, no one should doubt that cybercrime will increase in the future. I would like to comment on the link between the local CCUs and the federal CCU. You're referring to the fact that the federal police can't perform their role optimally due to lack of personnel. I would urge that this be followed as closely as possible in the future so that the federal police can. The local police zones are also making efforts. I refer, for example, to my own area where we also buy equipment and software to read from mobile phones. However, more and more tasks and assignments cannot be transferred from the federal police to the zones due to lack of staff and resources. I would therefore urge you to keep the difference between federal and local police optimal. Finally, there are two reservations. Of course, the consultation with these computer giants must go beyond our heads and our own country. Every country in Europe is confronted with it. I would urge our own country to urge Europe to consult with these Internet giants. That's how Apple does everything to stop that decryption. They constantly insist that they want to keep that encryption. One final point is actually a return to my previous question about whistleblowers or reports of people reporting security errors. It's a double-edged sword. We must try to protect those who report with good intentions facts that are poorly secured or have gaps on the government's website. We must try to use all means to protect whistleblowers as effectively as possible and use the data they provide to increase our own security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u40	Mr. Minister, following a scientific publication, a study from a while ago came to the attention of the public. The conclusion was that children under 14 years of age growing up in a 15 km radius around the Mol-Dessel nuclear waste site could have leukaemia two to three times more often than their peers. According to the researchers commissioned by the FANC, there is also a link between the distance to the nuclear waste site and the wind direction in which the radioactive gas emissions are blowing. I have seen a number of reactions from the FANC and from those responsible, but I would like to ask you a few more questions. What exactly was the role of the FANC in this investigation? What initiatives did the FANC take to achieve a broad and transparent return to results? I was somewhat surprised that the debate on society really did not break loose until after the scientific publication. What is your response to the findings? Has a follow-up been initiated yet? This was the case. What role does the FANC play in this? Finally, what measures are you taking to improve safety and health around Mol-Dessel's site? Even if the results were to be nuanced in one way or another at a later stage, I think this is a problem that deserves attention. In the past, safety reports have already been published on the sites, so I would like to draw attention to those sites in addition to the safety of nuclear power plants and the health of the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u41	Mr Minister, the results of a German survey carried out on the Mol-Dessel site show that there would be two to three times more leukaemia findings in children from 0 to 14 years of age than in their peers elsewhere. We have seen that, among other things, this was taken into account by the FANC because, in the small group we are talking about, one additional case could already have a huge impact. So it is not so clear whether there really is a link, but, as Mr Calvo rightly says, we need to pay sufficient attention to this problem. If there is a link or if there are certain causes associated with it, we must draw the necessary conclusions and, if necessary, adjust them as regards prevention. We know that additional studies were ordered, including a follow-up study, also mentioned by Mr Calvo. My question is, therefore, what is the state of play in this additional investigation? Will you take specific initiatives in the field of prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u42	This research was carried out at the request of the then Minister of Health. The research project was led by the Scientific Institute for Public Health, which was also responsible for the epidemiological aspects of the study. The data on the prevention of new cancer cases were provided by the Cancer Register Foundation. As the intention was to investigate a possible health impact of living in the vicinity of large nuclear installations, the researchers of the WIV were also able to count on the cooperation and input of the experts of the FANC. At the time when the results of the study were available, it was the task of the WIV and its custody minister to communicate with the press and Parliament on this matter. They did, with the active involvement of the FANC. On 25 April 2012, the FANC published a press release which clearly identified the main results and provided the necessary explanation. Finally, the FANC has also cooperated with local information initiatives, such as in Dessel and in Farciennes. As the researchers themselves explicitly mention in their publications about this study, this was a first exploratory study. The aim was to take a first look at possible health risks arising from life in the vicinity of nuclear sites through a national epidemiological study. In some places near major nuclear installations, differences were found between the locally occurring cancer incidence and those expected on the basis of the national average, or, for thyroid cancer, on the basis of the regional average. However, it is crucial to bear in mind that this study was based on the limited data available from 2002 to 2008. Fortunately, because the cancers investigated are rare, the number of cases occurring during that short observation period is limited, especially within a small and relatively sparsely populated area, such as the Mol-Dessel area. A few cases can affect more or less than the analysis completely in one direction or another, without having to mean more than mere coincidence, a statistical variability and instability. A longer observation period results in more cases, with this phenomenon gradually decreasing, the values stabilising and the determinations becoming reliable. In addition, no causal link was established between nuclear activity and these preliminary findings. After all, the type of research that has been carried out does not allow this. For the answer to the question of whether and when a follow-up investigation will take place, I refer you to Minister of Health Maggie De Block. In any event, the FANC has already notified the partner organisations, the Scientific Institute for Public Health (WIV) and the Cancer Register of their willingness to cooperate. The initiative should be based on the Minister for Health. There is another study currently under way, the 3xG study which follows the health of the inhabitants of the municipalities of Dessel, Mol and Retie from birth. The 2015 report does not reflect an increased occurrence of leukaemia. At present there is no reason to believe that the Mol/Dessel site would be less well equipped with the safety and health of the population than elsewhere in Belgium. The radiological impact of this activity on the environment is continuously monitored and shows nothing abnormal. The nuclear plants located there must meet the same high requirements as the other nuclear facilities in this country. The FANC inspectors shall make no distinction in this regard. The standards are the same everywhere. No deviation has been observed in the vicinity compared to other nuclear power plant neighborhoods. We will cooperate fully in a new investigation to determine whether these are purely statistical or other elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My fellow Members or myself will return to the Minister for Health for a follow-up study, because that is indeed an important aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u44	Mr Minister, since the inventory of nuclear liabilities was completed, it is known that Belgium has identified several landfills and areas affected by radioactive pollution, far beyond the perimeters of nuclear power stations. For example, large volumes of radioactive waste are stored on the Antwerp site of Umicore, a dossier considered by the ONDRAF boss as extremely difficult. International requirements are very clear in this regard. Each Member State must have transposed, before February 2018, the requirement of the Euratom Treaty to have a regulatory framework for the remediation of soil contaminated with radioactive substances. Where are we in Belgium? Has the AFCN already finalized a project in this area? If so, how long has it been available to the successive government(s)? At your level, when did you get to know about this project? What did you do with it? Have you had any working meetings with the AFCN on the file? Do you share the substance of the file proposed by the FANC? How do you possibly diverge? What are the financial mechanisms proposed by the FANC? Are you going to follow them? What is your schedule of work in this area? What are the steps you still need to take, and by what time frame? More specifically, given the nature of the waste present at the Umicore site in Olen, and in particular its lifetime of 1,600 years, should the latter, or some of them, not have the same destination as the waste of Class B nuclear power plants? What are the provisions set up by Umicore to clean up this site? Are they considered sufficient by the competent bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u45	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I have already, in the previous legislature, interviewed your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, on the state of play regarding the rehabilitation of radium landfills. That is a parliamentary question that dates back to 12 February 2014, to which I referred in my question. Among other things, it's about the radium collapse in Olen, but it's not the only one. The FANC Decision of 30 November 2015 listed some 20 risk zones. The Minister gave me a state of affairs at the time, but this seemed to me to be the time to move on to the new state of affairs. I have the following questions. Can you provide an update on the planned or non-planned reorganisation of the risk areas listed in the FANC Decision of 30 November 2015? What is the FANC's position on whether or not to clean up the collapse in Olen? Have criteria already been defined for the low-radioactive waste present? If so, which one? When was the Flemish Government informed about these criteria? You, as a big fan of federalism, will certainly understand that question. What is the status of the study commissioned by Umicore? What is the FANC's decision on whether or not to clean up the surrounding radioactive contaminated sites in Olen? What are the further plans for the approach of the site in Olen? When will the FANC provide information on the long-term management of radium-containing waste in relation to NIRAS? What is the state of play with regard to the financial aspects of waste management, such as commissioning by Umicore? I look forward to your answers. If a number of aspects are answered in writing, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u46	The list of risk zones of the FANC Decision of 30 November 2015 includes radium contaminated sites demonstrating significant radon concentration. If a site is considered to be an anthropogenic radon risk zone, this does not necessarily mean that a reorganisation is necessary. However, if built on these plots, appropriate prevention measures against radon should be taken and radon concentration monitored. The FANC organised a consultation on this issue with all the municipalities concerned and with OVAM. For several sites, the FANC also advised OVAM on the radiological aspects of their rehabilitation. For the main sites there are also monitoring measures, either by the operator of the site itself or through the FANC radiological monitoring programme. In its letter to the Department of Environment, Nature and Energy Policy, dated late 2014, the FANC confirmed its view that the reorganisation of the D1 landfill in Olen is necessary. This position was already expressed in 2001 in the common position of the FANC and the NIRAS on the radiological aspects of the rehabilitation of radioactive pollution in the areas of Umicore in Olen and in the vicinity. AFCN established a working group in 2007 to develop this regulation with the participation of ONDRAF. The essential principles of this regulation were presented to the guardianship office of the time – this was the time of Mr.Dewael – on 14 May 2008. In spite of the lack of positioning of its trusteeship, AFCN continued to develop these regulations and a draft law on the implementation of interventions on sites contaminated with radioactive substances was forwarded to the then AFCN trusteeship (Ms. Turtelboom) in March 2011. This project was then reintroduced to successive trustees. The proposal regulates the approach to the reorganisation of such sites by analogy with the rules for the reorganisation of chemically polluted sites. The latter should facilitate coordination for both radiological and chemically contaminated sites. The preliminary draft was recently adapted to the changing regional rules. A meeting on this draft law was held on 22 April this year between representatives of the Interior and AFCN. The draft legislation proposed by the AFCN defines a holder of the remediation obligations as well as, in regional soil remediation regulations, the holder of the obligations is responsible for financing the characterization and remediation of a contamination. However, if the holder is exempted from his obligations or fails to fulfil his obligations, an ex officio remediation must be carried out. The AFCN proposes the following ways of financing ex officio interventions: to secure an allocation for the purpose of financing a fund linked to the remediation of contaminated sites or to provide a fund through sectoral taxes. As far as the Fund's track is concerned, AFCN refers to what is being done in Flanders: it is financed by OVAM and mainly by the MINA fund financed by the polluter-pays principle. In Wallonia, the clean-up of 21 sites between 2014 and 2020 is financed by the European ERDF fund. On the other hand, there is the trail of taxes that would feed into a sectoral fund financed by the sector concerned by the contamination. For example, BOFAS or PREMAS (Belgian oil pollution fund) was set up in the Flemish and Federal Government Agreements. Given the small number of actors involved, these options are not directly applicable to the problem of contaminated land. A specific scheme must therefore be developed in order to maintain the principle of 'polluter pays'. Within the framework of the FANC-NIRAS cooperation agreement, the FANC is working with the NIRAS on a methodology for the evaluation of the various quantities of radioactive contaminated substances that may result from the rehabilitation of radioactive contaminated sites. The aim is to identify the volumes of contaminated substances to be managed, which are the management options for this and for which volumes the NRAS will have to manage as radioactive waste. It examines the impact of the criteria and the nature of the materials on the possible options and volumes. In the context of the VLAREBO, an initial phased soil restoration project concerning the landfill sites D1 and S1 was commissioned by Umicore in 2015. It is only when the legislative proposal has been adopted that the KBBAs are in place and the NIRAS has made a proposal for a national policy measure on the management of radium-containing waste and when it has been adopted by the government that the Olen site can be completely renovated for the radiological part. It is up to the NRAS to propose a proposal for a national policy measure on the management of radium-containing radioactive waste on which the FANC will then issue an opinion. Financial aspects of waste management such as commissioning by Umicore are not the responsibility of the FANC but are followed by the NIRAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u47	Minister, thank you for this long answer that I will take the time to analyze before replying out of respect for timing. We are already far beyond that. I would just like to make one point: the first texts concerning the Dewael Act date back to 2008. We are in 2016 and this is not yet realized. For the rest, I'll come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I am largely in favour of this. I hope that the potential effect of demand is that the file is again a drawer higher on different desks. I shall perhaps come back to the concrete aspects by means of a written or oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-05-54-commissie-ic505x.u49	Questions Nos 13638 and 13639 by Mrs Van Cauter will be converted into written questions, as will Question No 13755 by Mr Dallemagne.
