ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u1	I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Social Affairs and Business Committees, also on behalf of my colleague and co-chair, Jean-Marc Delizée. I would also like to welcome the people of ING, both the CEO, Mr Vandenberghe, and Mr Pareyns, HR director, as well as the people of the trade unions, Mrs Maes and Mrs Verstraeten for LBC-ACV, Mrs Desmet and Mr Cappoen for BATK-ABVV, Mrs Martine Léfèvre for ACLVB and Mr D'Antuono for the NCK. As a joint committee, we do not need our test piece. A few weeks ago, following a similar tragedy at Caterpillar, we also asked the management and trade unions to speak to us. That was refused by the management of Caterpillar. They used the excuse of the Renault Act. You know that legislative proposals were tabled by the opposition and the majority. We will also deal with them, but as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I appreciate the fact that the management of ING has responded to our question in order to discuss here in full transparency the reasons for the decision taken and its consequences. I would also like to say that, following this exchange of views with trade unions and management, we will also have a discussion with Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, who will join us after this debate. We will also be able to ask him questions so that we also know from the government what the intentions and plans are for this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u2	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our guests. History repeats itself! Almost a month ago, day by day, we met in joint committees on the Caterpillar issue. There are certainly differences between the two situations but also similarities: the job losses announced as part of a restructuring. Employment is an essential challenge for Members of Parliament. The joint committees expressed their willingness to hold another meeting this week to discuss the situation with the company's social partners. I thank our guests for their presence and the management of ING who accepted, unlike Caterpillar, our invitation. I therefore thank you for your presence today in order to present your point of view and allow this exchange with colleagues. I also thank the representatives of the trade unions for their presence. I do not think that I should dwell further on the general presentation of the debate. We will come back later on the organisation of the debate with the Members but, as a first step, we will hear the management and then the organisations representing the workers. Mr Vandenberghe has the floor for a first presentation of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u3	Mr President, representatives of the people, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the invitation to come here today in the Joint Committee on Social Affairs and Business. I will try to explain as transparently as possible our intentions, which we submitted to the social partners on Monday, and try to answer all your questions within, as you have just said, the limits of the laws in force within which I must navigate. I can tell you that our employees, our customers and our company have had an eventful week. I also admit that we underestimated the emotional impact of the way in which our announced intentions would be perceived. At the same time, I would also like to say that ING, with regard to the intentions we have communicated to the social partners and to our employees, has not gone over the night. Through the history of companies that, decades after decades, have been successful, without any exception, we have managed to anticipate changes in time. As you know, the heart of our business has not changed for more than a hundred years, and even for three hundred years. The same will be true for the next hundred years. As a universal bank, we play an important role for the economy and for households and at any time we support their dynamics, whether the economic situation is rising or decreasing. On the other hand, the way in which we provide our services will be reviewed in depth over the years, as a result of major technological and social developments. To say that our bank is evolving today in a context of great challenges is an understatement. We are faced with different market trends that hit our business model at full speed, not only at the same time but also at an unprecedented speed. The main difficulties are the low rates - never seen in six hundred years - complex regulation, high taxation and, above all, the changing behaviour of many consumers as a result of digitalisation. However, we believe that this digitalisation is at our doorstep and is already part of our daily lives, not only at home, but at our customers, whether it be public authorities, companies or individuals. Companies that plan their actions and pursue a long-term policy understand very well that it is impossible and even inconceivable to deny this reality. We must welcome digitalization with open arms and give it an important place in our strategy. Does that mean that ING will become a "robot bank", as I have often read in the press in recent days? No, of course not! I've spent my entire career at ING myself. I know this bank on my fingertips. Personalized advice has always been and will always remain of the utmost importance to us. More than twenty years ago, I met with SME and individual leaders every day. I started in the vicinity of Groot-Bijgaarden and Dilbeek to really help these customers. I can assure you that this will not change. In 20 years, ING employees will continue to value personal contact with customers. But today, I'm also CEO. As CEO, my main task, once the situation is over in the short term, is to ensure that tomorrow ING is ready to anticipate what is inevitable and is already happening in many sectors. I'm talking about this digitalization that's really disruptive. I am fully aware that our intention to carry out a wave of redundancies and downsizing has fallen like a bunch on Monday, all the more so as our company continues to achieve good results. But, in my opinion, it's always better to make a transition when you're in a strong position than to wait for the knife to be under your throat. In the short term, our intentions are very poorly experienced by some of our employees, but in the long term, this strategy will allow us to preserve the interests of our company, our employees, our customers, the company and any other stakeholders. In future negotiations with our social partners, we will assume our responsibilities to our employees and to society. We will support as much as possible, both financially and in practical terms, those who will leave ING. We will help them reintegrate into the labour market. The current legal provisions on collective redundancies, however, prevent me, unfortunately, from extending to the exact details today. However, I would like to point out that job cuts will be spread, both over time, that is to say until 2012, and geographically, across the country. Moreover, I would point out that this decrease in the number of employees will largely be achieved through monthly departures. In concrete terms, this means that, within the framework of our intentions, we are talking, and that is a large number, I know, of a maximum of 1,700 dismissals spread over five years, spread over the country. Of course, we will discuss with the social partners whether and how we could further reduce this number. I know that I repeat myself, but we, as ING, will assume our responsibilities, both to those who will leave our company and to the more than 6,500 workers who will remain at home, because they too will probably have to face many changes. Our employees are our most valuable capital. Our intention to reduce our workforce in order to meet the new demands of the market, therefore an economic reality, does not change the fact that in the future our employees will remain important to us. To act in a changing context, we must always question ourselves first. We want to be a flexible company, with a less burdensome structure. We want to offer a lot of freedom and responsibility to our employees, even if they will be fewer in the future. If we want to innovate for our customers, we must have the courage to innovate ourselves. Finally, I would like to clarify two points concerning our future commercial plans. Firstly, our ambition as ING Belgium is very clearly not to evolve into a purely digital bank. Our advisory function will continue to be maintained and will be strengthened even further. Today ING and Record Bank together count about 1 250 offices, by far the majority of all universal banks in Belgium. I refer here to a recent statement by Peter Praet this week during a speech to the IMF in which he states, and repeatedly reaffirms, that the current high number of bank offices in Belgium is a millstone that weighs on the sector. ING intends to evolve into a network of 650 offices in the future, all under the name ING. This means that ING Bank's own customers hardly change anything as regards the number of offices they have at their disposal. Today there will be about 700 and tomorrow there will be 650. This also means that Record Bank's customers will receive more than a hundred offices. So we're really gonna keep a dense network. In addition, we will also provide more staff in our own offices than is the case today. Today we have an average of 5.5 employees in ING's statutory offices. This means that sometimes one is limited in opening hours because some offices have less than 5.5. In the future, the average of the statutory offices as the intentions are realised will evolve to 8.5 employees. So on average 40 % more. Customers stay close to them have an office for personal contact with their banker. There will be room for all generations, just like today. For all generations there will be room at ING. To achieve this, we will be sitting together with the organisations of seniors, families, consumers and vulnerable groups in the coming weeks. In the future, everyone will be able to choose how they want to bank with ING, from only completely personal to the other extreme fully digital. Entrepreneurs will also continue to have an extensive network of offices with specialists and also of liaison officers, i.e. contact persons to whom they can contact. Our office staff will also receive new resources that will help them to spend less time on administration and more on advice, more time really for their customers. A second element I would like to mention is the following. Together with ING Nederland, we will develop the same digital offer, a real omnichannel bank, which responds to the new digital normal that we all get used to in a fast pace. We all think it makes sense that when we use Netflix today in Belgium, Italy or Germany, the user experience is simple and exactly the same. Why should that be different for banking? Our digital offering of the future must be complete, inviting, easy and extremely intuitive to use. By wanting to create scale with ING in the Netherlands............................................................................................................. A major investment in the digital and omnichannel is really needed. I would also like to stress that ING paid EUR 355 million in tax in Belgium last year, corporation tax, and EUR 199 million in bank charges. Our estimate is that these levies will increase further this year, from 199 million last year to 255 million this year. This means that we have contributed more than 550 million for 2015, and here I do not charge the social contributions nor the corporate tax on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There is a good chance that this amount will exceed EUR 600 million or around EUR 600 million as a result of the rising levies for 2016. ING clearly contributes every year. I think I can say that we are even contributing a great stone. We are a bank from here, deeply rooted in Belgian society. We also intend to stay here for a long time and really support the economy and our customers. But that promise means that we can remain a healthy bank in the long term. A healthy bank must also be able to make sufficient profits. The transformation that we have set out as our intention this week is not simply because we want to become a bank of the future. It also happens, and above all, because we want to be a bank with a future, including for its employees. Those staff members will be very much aware of this aspect of the problem. We also want to be a bank for its employees of the future and for its customers. Of course, I do not want to underestimate or deny in any way the heavy emotional impact caused by the intention to resign, which was announced with that intention to transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u4	Thank you, Mr Vandenberghe, for your presentation. She's the basis for our meeting. I now turn to the trade unions, the workers' representatives. I shall now give the floor to the representatives of the trade unions, beginning with Mrs Elke Maes and Mrs Anetta Verstraeten, who will be able to speak for a total of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for leaving us the floor today. We heard the CEO of ING talk about strategy. We can only note that the only strategy that he is able to implement is that of the shock not only in terms of communication, but also in terms of facts and acts. We were pleased to hear from the CEO about his intention to stay in Belgium and to continue to support our economy. However, if we consider the tax rate of less than 13 per cent that it receives, the deduction of 1.9 billion in notional interest that it receives, and I pass by, we are entitled to ask ourselves who supports who. As far as I am concerned, I would tend to say that in Belgium ING is an extremely well-assisted company. On Monday, at the initiative of the Prime Minister, we were also invited to participate in an exchange. On this occasion, he invited us to be creative in this matter, to get out of the box in our reflections. He invited us to practice the "out of the box thinking". Yesterday, I discovered, perhaps like you, on social networks, a small rather friendly video of one of our fellow citizens, of a young Brussels comedian, Abdel in real life, who, in four minutes, proposed quite a few alternatives to this government to prevent multinationals from continuing to carry out collective redundancies and to carry out social massacres in our country while they are beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u6	Thanks for the reception and for listening to us. In order to avoid repeating ourselves, I would like to state our main message. The board said the plan would be presented on Monday. I am concerned that the board members say that they underestimated the emotional impact of the plan. I don't know, but if you announce in your company that you will take out one in three employees, you shouldn't be alarmed that emotional reactions will follow. I am sorry that it has to be said again in this way. We have just come from the action at ING. The emotional reactions are indeed very high, because of the reasons which Mrs Verstraeten has already mentioned. ING is a good company. ING makes a profit. ING gets a lot from the state, so a lot of us all. However, such measures are being taken. For us, there is only one word for this: it is scandalous. We hear the CEO, Mr Vandenberghe, saying that we must prepare for the future. That's true. From the trade unions, we want to play our part in this. In the past, moreover, we have proved that we are doing so. With the social dialogue in the company, we are contributing step by step to the future of ING. We want that too, because then we will have a future for the employees in that company. So we are not opposed to that. Does that mean that such a plan must be presented? We believe that digital can also be social. People can make a difference. It can't be like this. We note that ING customers received an e-mail last week stating that they do not have to worry, because nothing changes for them. That e-mail said that the bank offices would all be there, with more people and more opening hours, and that customers can always go there. I like the comparison: the people of Record Bank get a hundred contact points. Of course, it's just how people explain it. If one drops from 1 250 to 650 outlets, that actually says enough. There may be more staff in ING's remaining offices, the final impact on employment is enormous. We think it can be done in a different way. We could have worked on that together, but not in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u7	Thank you, ladies, you have fully respected your time. I now turn to Mrs Pia Desmet and Mr Jean-Michel Cappoen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u8	Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, today we are in an information phase in relation to the plan of this undertaking. I'll give you some details. The goal is to give you our feeling about the announcement of this plan, which impacts, for us, all staff. It affects not only the staff at the employment level, but also, in the long run, the working conditions of the staff. We are national representatives of the sector here. We have had a history of the financial sector for several years. Indeed, we follow not only ING but also all the banks in this country. So we think we still have some expertise and a knowledge of the situation. There was a shock. This shock is induced by what is known everywhere as digitalization. For us, digitalisation is certainly not synonymous with systematic job losses. It actually leads to the transformation of functions and certain professions. It can also be provided by the bank's current staff; it should be noted that all employees in the bank have a high level of expertise and qualification. The problem is that, in the light of what appears in the plan, we want to move towards this digitalisation, but there is no line on the conversion or training of the staff currently employed in the company. That's one of the gaps in the plan. We believe that, in this plan and in this job announcement, there is, in addition to digitalisation, a concern for better profitability for shareholders. Whether or not we want to transform people who are currently employees of the company in the networks of agencies, this has absolutely nothing to do with a digitalisation problem, it is a change in the status of the workers of this company. For us, it is clear that this plan is a pretext for inflating the number of redundancies, in particular a very high number of redundancies: 1,700 people. It's huge. We are experiencing the problem of digitalisation in other banks but which use other methods, and certainly not those which are currently used by ING, which has very little consideration for its staff. In conclusion, after this phase of information, we, the trade union organisations, are going to work together to demonstrate that this plan is indeed about digitisation, but on the other hand, it is about improving the income of this company so that shareholders can recover rates above 10% return. We will demonstrate this in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u9	I wish you a good morning, too. I think we need to get a few things straight. A number of things have not been said. For example, in the plans, in addition to what my fellow Members have already explained, there is outsourcing. It's about outsourcing outside Belgium. Contacts have been established a long time ago and training is already under way. There is, firstly, an education and hence outsourcing to Manila, and secondly, this may still prove to be to Bulgaria or Hungary. So there is also a whole plan for outsourcing. I shall then be very happy to give Mr Vandenberghe a calculator, because I really do not know how he calculates. If we go from 1 250 offices to 750 or 650, then of course we can do so with the recording of the Record Offices; 650 offices means that there are 150 fewer at ING. How they get a number of 600 and say that there will be more than the 500 offices that already exist at Record Bank, that is a mystery to me. The fact is that the customers who are served today in the offices are not all willing and not all can move to digitalization. The number of servants per office is increased from 5.5 to 8.5 on average, and this amounts to an average of 3 servants more per office, but hundreds of offices are abolished. Why is it so emotional? That is because it is yet another round, Mr Vandenberghe. While we have already lost 1 115 jobs in two years and as trade unions have been willing to turn in and moderate wages, you are now giving us the same thing again: a large round of discards, a large round of savings, a large round of transformations. We will actually implement the invitations we received from the various ministers on Monday afternoon. We will take the necessary time in the information phase, in accordance with the Renault Act, to investigate everything and to assess the correct effects on employment of the proposal you are putting on the table. Immediately linked to this, we will propose new initiatives based on our vision of the matter. We will have to do this together, because it is your responsibility, your total responsibility, including the entire banking sector, to see how we can give every servant a dignified place in the bank, with fewer discards, in the banking sector, as well as, unfortunately, in other financial sectors and perhaps even in markets other than those of finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u10	Dank u wel, mevrouw Desmet. I thank the two representatives of SETCA-FGTB. And I now give the floor to Mrs Martine Lefèvre, who represents the CGSLB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u11	Presidents, representatives of the people, of the management, of my fellow Members, thank you for the invitation. Last year, ING's CEO said: "I am proud of the efforts and determination of our more than 8 500 employees at ING Belgium." How can we reconcile that with what is happening today? How can one shout "hoorah" yesterday and say today: "Sorry, staff, you are not needed?" That statement is a year old and now we hear the story of mass redundancies. This is hard on the staff. It is an outright blow to the face of the ING employees. But ING's summit still has another huge credibility problem. Pronunciations such as the roof must be repaired when the sun is shining are downright hurtful. CEO Ralph Hamers saw his salary rise by 360,000 euros last year. What will it be this year? Will he receive an additional management bonus to further boost profitability, in other words to remove x number of employees? I also heard CEO Rik Vandenberghe say he was awake. I think the staff has been awake for a long time. Moreover, they have to go home and tell them that the many deliveries, all those savings rounds that have been there, have actually all been for nothing. Their commitment, their drive, their loyalty to the company are all based on a great lie. Returning to the planned works council of Monday. In one of the first slides, it's about profitability. The profitability will be under pressure. How the hell does that rhyme with numbers? Last year there was a billion profits. Now, for the first six months, there's 588 million profits. The profitability under pressure? The reason: impact of taxes and regulations. The banking sector needs to realise that in 2008 both customers and staff were urgently in need of protection. Too many dangerous products were sold. Maintaining low interest rates. What about the high interest rates a few years ago? What did they do? Didn't they put up some savings? Or has that disappeared with the crisis, for which top management was responsible? The competition, another thing they say is putting pressure on their profitability. Competition has always been and will always be there. Digitalization: our customers adapt quickly, but studies still show that a quarter of the population is not involved in PC banking and still has a lot of trouble using an app. Who helped save the bank in 2008? Who's been talking to the client? Who turned it in? This surrender means a reform of group insurance and hospitalisation insurance, wage moderation, an index-stop and abolished premiums. It's always the same: the staff. It can never be enough. For the last five years, ING Belgium has distributed no less than 7.2 billion euros of dividends to the Dutch parent company and now ING employees are simply dumped. From 2017, 3 150 people have to disappear, of which a maximum of 1 700 are fired naked. Is your account correct? There is still a need to integrate Record Bank and ING. And there are people who have to apply for their own job.. is the function compatible? So there is still a lot of work to be done to obtain correct figures. What about the offices? Which office disappears and which stays? The independent offices and their employees are sometimes forgotten. Yet there are two thousand. It is not just the employees who will lose their jobs, but there are also leases for buildings or buildings purchased. So, what's happening? That is an additional disadvantage. ING Contact Centers: from 262 to 0, that really cannot be understood. There are even large banks that now have contact centers and there is even one that wants people to work on Sundays, without evaluating the current call centers. The extension is allowed, during the week and on Saturday. Without evaluation, they now say they want Sundays. The top management has an idea and it has to be carried out. They think in the short term, but they do not forget or consider the long term and the evaluations necessary. What else did I find? CEO Vandenberghe becomes President of Febelfin. Ambition: to get the Brussels fair higher on the ranking list. What does ING do? They're moving their markets to Amsterdam. That therefore weakens the position of Brussels. Maybe there's gonna be other big banks. IT, from 1 200 people to 632. The cause is digitalization. As Mrs Desmet has just said, it's not just about digitisation, there's already been a lot of outsourcing in the IT industry within ING. Does this not have to do with the IT platform in common with the Netherlands and will we not do so? There are other departments. As trade unions, we can only conclude that digitisation is not really the cause, but the cost-to-income. It was written this morning that ING is aiming for a cost-to-income of 50%. At present it is at 56 %. So I don't get it anymore. I can only say that the staff is a very easy victim to keep the difficult shareholder friendly. I have one final message, also addressed to the government. Uw leuze is jobs, jobs, jobs. We have to note that the more you give to an employer, the less this goes to the employee. Profit has been given a bitter aftertaste to the staff. It is not a guarantee of maintaining employment. Only shareholders and top management are making progress. That is why I conclude that large companies, which suddenly turn up the hatchet to put capital over people, are a bad development in a lot of large companies. This just has to stop!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u12	Mrs Lefèvre, thank you for your intervention on behalf of your trade union ACLVB. I now turn to Mr Leonardo D'Antuono, who represents the CNC, the representative organisation of management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u13	Mr President, my name is Leonardo D'Antuono; I am a member of the staff, a business advisor and a spokesperson for the national confederation of executives at ING. We are the fourth union present at ING. As I speak last, I will try to avoid repetition. Everything has been said, and very well said, by my various trade union colleagues. Maybe I'll try to focus on other directions. One axis: the climate at ING. I will remember two words: emotion and anger. Emotion, of course. I was present on Monday at the corporate council. I can tell you that the emotion at the staff level was enormous. Most staff did not expect this at all. They were still a little bit in their bubble. They were warned, but well, obviously, it didn't work. They didn't expect that. So the emotion was huge. When President Vandenberghe says that they underestimated, it is a sweet euphemism to say that it was just an underestimation. Then anger. It is clear that after emotion came anger. Anger why? The hardness of the numbers, of course. We're talking about 1,700. But there will be negotiations starting again on Monday and it is clear that I will not go into the details. You know very well that obviously we can't talk about everything here. But these figures are huge and, in my opinion, still underestimated. We will prove that they are even more important than that. There is also anger in communication; my colleagues have talked about it. You've read all this in the press, on the internet. Communication was, to use a nice word, "failure", really failing at the management level. A small example. On Monday, under emotion, a few union delegates pass through the corridors and say: "Listen, we suggest you leave your place. Show that you are not happy." Some people are leaving. And the only thing we do is impose a half-day strike on them, which was really anything from a certain type of management. Yes! Yes! I see "no" on the other side, but yes, it was done, and more than once. In fact, we will return to that during the negotiations. So, huge anger at staff level. In view of the time given to me and in order to avoid the repetitions, I will prefer another axis. In fact, you, the legislative power, how can you act? How can you be helpful? You can act on several axes. The first is the fiscal axis. What if collective redundancies were to be taxed, in a retaliatory way, in companies that make a lot of profits, as is the case with our company? At the level of people, outplacement and taxes, you know that, at the level of allowances, since a new law, we withdraw a month. It's a training fee. And if we did not withdraw this month, allowing the employee to use it, for example, as part of setting up a business, that would not be taxed at that time. It is a matter of innovation at the level of taxation. You certainly know that there are huge flows of capital coming out of Belgium, loans, entry fees into society,... Is this all reasonable? At the ethical level, for example, the role of banking could be reviewed. It is high time to see him again in the light of the various crises that have occurred. I would even say that in terms of the security of the country, it is important. Banks, like energy, are a strategic sector. Can we accept that large Dutch and French companies, which I will not mention, have control over part of our economy? This is your role. You must ensure that this is no longer possible. Maybe a little word for my union. We're a very small union. Open the social system! At present, the social system is a little "cadenassé" – the term may be a little hard – by three organisations that do their job very well and we thank them for it, but let us also participate a little more in the social dialogue in the creation of business and other agreements. I won't take any more of your time. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u14	Thanks to the unions for giving us their point of view. Dank u voor uw interventies. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed to the debate with the Members of this House. In order to ensure that this is done in order, I have agreed with Mr Delizée that we will, of course, give you all the opportunity to intervene, but limit the speaking time of the first speaker of a group to 10 minutes and that of the second speaker of the same group to 5 minutes. In this way, we are giving everyone the opportunity to intervene. We have agreed to speak with the management and with the trade unions. Everyone's kept to that. It would be neat if we did. I shall first give the floor to the N-VA and then to the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u15	Mr President, can the first ten minutes be divided into two times five minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u16	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers for their openness in the explanatory statement we have received. Mr Vandenberghe, I was not surprised that the trade unions reacted so shockedly. After all, it is a huge number of jobs that are lost, much more than could be expected at first sight in the context of the continuation of an already existing strategy. We might ask whether you have waited too long to respond to the new trends, which means that you now have to come out with a real shock theory. What's going on, making the shock so big right now? I am not surprised that there is an evolution in the sector. For the sake of clarity, the general comments that are repeated today, but which have also been made when it comes to AXA Insurance or other financial players, we have heard before. The role of the ECB and the low interest rate policy are very damaging. Perhaps you could comment on the exact impact of this low interest rate policy on this decision and on ING's general policy. I repeat, from an enterprise perspective, I can only welcome the fact that the bank is trying to prepare itself for the future. However, questions arise as to whether such a shock should occur. A company like Nokia has made monster profits for years. Still, that company doesn't work for anyone anymore today. In the debate, I would like to ask for a little bit of reasonableness from all sides, taking into account all the sensitivities that there are, of course. Many questions remain open today about the practical implementation of the whole reorganisation. I understand that you cannot go into all the details today. I get a lot of questions, not only from ING's employees, about which the trade union representatives have largely already spoken, but also about your very large self-employed network, to which Mrs Lefèvre has already referred. Both at Record and under ING there are a lot of independent office owners, who have made heavy investments in a number of cases. Sometimes these independent office holders also employ staff. They are now faced with possible closures or mergers of offices. So they have an additional problem: not only do they have to find a new job, they also have a socially passive job and investment in buildings and infrastructure. Can you give me an order of magnitude yet? How many people do you expect to work in the self-employed network after the reorganisation and how many ING names? What's that distribution gonna look like? The self-employed network will undergo mergers. Self-employed persons from both Record and ING will work under the heading ING. There is also a big difference today. They work with different baremas, with a different product range and the like. There are also many questions about this. After all, not only the employees in the financial sector have been turning in for years, but also the role of all possible intermediaries in the financial sector has been under pressure for years. The fear of a further squeeze effect is particularly great. This week attention has also been paid to the specific problem of pre-contractual information. Are there any plans to self-employed existing servants' offices today? That's not entirely clear to me. There are fewer servants' offices and self-employed offices, but will existing offices also be self-employed? If so, how can you ensure, if those people disappear from your payroll by becoming independent, that within a few years they do not appear to be faced with an impossible task and then throw the towel in the ring themselves? These are a few general concerns about the network. I have a general question. I said yesterday in plenary that employment in the sector is terrible and I understand your feeling that it is fundamentally falling. I believe that the trade unions are also aware that this will deteriorate. I believe that we should place a particularly strong focus on the deer job. How can we lead those people, who are often well-educated but with specific knowledge, to other sectors, because digitalisation creates more opportunities and additional jobs? How can we lead them there in a good way? Very specific about the planned discards. If I see the personnel policy of the last few years, there has been a decline in employment for ten years. In recent years, however, mostly low-skilled people have died. Will that also continue in this round? In other words, are the people without a higher degree thrown out first? How do you guys see that? So much for the first round, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u18	I now give the floor to the members of the PS group whose speaking time is ten minutes in total. Mr. Massin intervened in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for coming to the House and taking into consideration the consideration we have given you. You'll excuse me, Mr. CEO, if you don't sleep well, my support will go to the workers anyway. Because, given the brutality with which you acted, if there is a category of people that deserves our support, it is not the shareholders or the managers but the workers. Beyond this, I will allow myself to recall certain things that lead us to an incomprehension and therefore to an obligation to respond, beyond the discussion you have in the Renault procedure. Mr Jan Smets, recently, said that banks were doing well in Belgium. Real estate loans are on the rise and defaults are relatively stable. Minister Van Overtveld said, when he took over his ministry, that he was happy, that the area was ragaillardi. Banks, since 2008, had reduced their balance sheets, reduced risks and increased reserves. There was profitability, the sector had regained colors, the profits are there and make the happiness of the mother houses. Historically in Belgium, there was an agreement on the distribution of productivity gains between workers and shareholders. I feel like we're a long way from it. Today, billions are distributed in the form of profits, while at the same time workers are laid off. I would like to comment on your statement this morning, Mr Vandenberghe: "We are going to take on our responsibilities as an employer, we will not use the statutory pension system. The bank must be healthy, for it, for its customers (manifestly not for its workers). We don't want to come back every year with plans." You argue your decision about digitalization. I have given you the explanation shared by Messrs. Smets et Van Overtveldt. I hope you will criticize her and tell us that they were wrong. But digitalization isn't the only thing and I think the workers put you at the foot of the wall. I hope you will discuss this because announcing 1,700 dry layoffs when they declare that they are ready to work tomorrow, at tomorrow's bank, for the benefit of the bank, the workers, the customers and therefore for the benefit of digitalisation, I think there were other announcements to make. I am not talking about flexibility, but about retraining, training. Indeed, you have highly qualified personnel. This is not about blue collars, but about white collars, that is, people who, tomorrow, could have continued to work for your bank and advise the customer, as you said. I'm glad to hear that you're developing. In view of the announcement made, it seems to be rather a question of recession. Sometimes two different bank agencies are set up in villages, but this is not a generality. Previously, a bank agency was located 1.5 kilometres from my home. She just closed. Today, I find myself having to travel five kilometres to go to an agency. Now I live in a big city, namely Charleroi. How do you intend to do this tomorrow for pensioners, social beneficiaries, all those who do not necessarily contribute to your profit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u20	Mr President, Mr Vandenberghe, you are proceeding with a system which is beyond your control but which you are also an accountant for. It must be said, because the press has discussed at length the fundamental parameters of your company. [[The return on equity is 10%, which remains considerable.]] Dividends reached $7.2 billion over the past decade. And good year, bad year, in recent years, you have presented a positive result after tax, of a billion euros. ING Belgium therefore remains a very profitable company. In addition, according to 2015 figures, your accounts provide €116 billion in customer deposits, including €43.3 billion in savings accounts, €45.8 billion in sight deposits and €9.3 billion in term accounts. I imagine that of these 116 billion, many of these customer deposits are savings or investments of Belgian residents, public authorities or private savers. This means that Belgium remains for your group, a very fertile land, where you draw what will allow you to do your business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u21	If you share the observation that of these 116 billion, the bulk comes from Belgium, do you not think that you should have a little more consideration for the Belgian social fabric? This includes having more consideration for maintaining employment in Belgium. Do you really think that you will penalize your shareholding in the long term, by reducing the wage bill and creating a social distortion that will be detrimental to your employees but also for your image and especially for your dealings with a country from which you derive a large part of your profits? Finally, I do not like the process of intent, but we can read, following your annual reports, that ING practices fairly broadly, stock options plans. I would like you to reassure us that in recent weeks or months there have been no options for the management, the management committee, the board of directors and the management in the broad sense of ING Belgium. I will be happy if the answer is negative. I hope that you will be transparent on this point. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that we have tabled a bill on redundancies, which aims to make them more difficult. A tax trail was mentioned. We will take it into consideration, it seems interesting to me; but I hope that there will be a majority in this House to quickly adopt a legal framework that makes it more difficult to lay off stock exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u22	I pass the floor to the MR party, and, to begin with, to Mr Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u23	Mr President, first of all, as we all know in this joint committee, we pass on Fridays which, unfortunately, are similar. To be confronted with situations such as those experienced today by ING workers deserves the word drama, which has been spoken many times. Social drama, economic drama, human drama. I'm glad we could hear you today. I wish I'd listened to you more. I wish you could have spoken for a longer time, but it's probably just a first contact. I hope that we will have an opportunity to follow the negotiations in the future. I am not going to thank you, but I would like to point out that unlike others, the management of ING is present. We have clarified the situation with a proposal which states, Mr President, that coming to Parliament is completely compatible with the Renault procedure. That probably allows us to have this exchange today. I didn't want to thank you, it's rude, but I was so shocked. You said you underestimated the emotional impact. I want to tell you, but what planet do you live on, in the direction of ING? Because beyond this plan, your communication was incredible. John Fitzgerald Kennedy quotes: "It is when the sun shines that the roof needs to be repaired." I don't know if he would be very satisfied with this exciting change in internal e-mails. My God, but what a lack of empathy with regard to the reality of thousands of workers who are going to lose their jobs! I have to admit, I didn't come back. And indeed, you seem to have underestimated the impact of these decisions. I do not understand in which ivory tower you have been able to stay too long to underestimate the justified reaction, of course, of a number of workers, who still do not know what their future will be done. In order to know a number of them, I can tell you that you must be careful to develop, if I may allow myself, throughout the negotiations, empathy with regard to what this decision causes. You heard the Prime Minister yesterday in plenary. He said that there would be a common front of Governments, trade unions and with legal support, to make every effort to minimize redundancies and ensure that those who would be dismissed could be supported and properly compensated. I have several questions to ask you: why now? I know the sun shines, but why now? I noted earlier what was said about digital. There are indeed banks operating in this way without causing such large redundancies, because 3 154 agree; but, since 2007, if I have done the right calculation, it is still 6 000 jobs that have been abolished by ING, 13 000 for Belgium as a whole over the same period. Indeed, I think you are in good health, as several colleagues have said. I would like a number of details. We talked about the 7.2 billion transfers to the parent company, but I would like to know how many dividends, in general, were transferred over the same period. You have the ambition, as indicated by Hamers, the CEO, to take first place in Benelux in terms of market share. What exactly is the situation today? We know that the context is difficult. We have all read the IMF report and the ECB's replies, but we do not understand such a brutal stance now. Before leaving the floor to my colleague to ask a number of questions, I would like to conclude. The Prime Minister has indicated that with Caterpillar, we reach the limits of the system. I think this sentence also applies to the case of ING. Why should tax support continue to be provided to a number of businesses that make profits, transfer dividends and sell off? It is clear that we will follow closely, both for Caterpillar and for ING, the Renault procedure and we will only be able to draw a number of lessons from the limits of this system, which seem to have been reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u24	Mr President, I would like to return to three points which Mr Vandenberghe has put forward. First, in the new business model of the bank, he says that more time and importance will be given to the customer, that the advisory function will be strengthened, that more will be focused on contacts with companies to be better able to help them. Is it compatible to reduce staff by 40% and want to place more emphasis on the client? Secondly, we know that certain functions will go abroad. There'll be outsourcing. When we look at the number of redundancies in Belgium compared to what will be in Holland or other countries, it is much higher. Does this digitalisation not also serve to hide, to hide all these other functions that will go abroad and that will no longer be in Belgium tomorrow? Finally, we talked a lot about toxic products. What about your balance sheet? Are there still toxic products or has the balance sheet been completely cleaned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u25	I would first like to address the representatives of the staff, the trade unions, and say that I fully understand the feelings of the staff and also of the representatives. They have feelings of incomprehension, with feelings of anger, certainly because they face this terrible news from one day to the next, while they have given the best of themselves for years. When no wage increases could be granted, they cooperated. When asked to be flexible, they cooperated. Yet all of a sudden, while everything is going well, while there is no leak in the roof, Mr Vandenberghe, they are confronted with the fact that one colleague in three has to disappear, that the job of those people is at stake. I understand those feelings. It is about more than three thousand jobs directly, not counting the indirect jobs yet, a thousand or perhaps even two thousand jobs in the independent offices, as we have heard today. It concerns four thousand to five thousand families, who lose their bread overnight. One would be worried for less and angry. More than that, I share that anger, not just as a Member of Parliament. I'm also a customer at ING. Also as ING's customer, I'm very angry. I like human contact. I don't go to the bank that often and, when I came, I was always advised to do this through internet banking. If that is because the staff could now focus on other things or better services, then I want to go along with that. However, if that is in order to ultimately increase profits or dividends for shareholders, then I cannot go along with that. That is why I am angry and I feel deceived as a Member of Parliament. After all, we in Parliament have adopted measures to reduce the burden on wages. The banks have also been able to enjoy this. You have also received a huge amount of resources, including through the theoretical deduction. We have taken these measures because we believed that by lowering the burden on labour jobs could be created. For us that was initially aimed at creating jobs. For those sectors that didn't have a hard time and couldn't create extra jobs, we assumed that at least the number of jobs would be retained. What do we see there? The reduction in charges is apparently not appreciated, because we get the lid on the nose. Instead of keeping jobs or creating more jobs, there are jobs flowing away, while your bank, at ING, actually has no reason to do so. They seem to want to achieve a return of 10% to 13% on equity. That's a lot, that's a lot. Crelan wants to go to a 6 % return. All right, they are not listed on the stock exchange, but according to the IMF's advice, a bank should have a profitability of at least 8%. Between 8 % and 13 % there is still a big difference, Mr Vandenberghe. Why? How far do we have to go? The resources given by the government to maintain and create jobs, where possible, were not intended for shareholders. That was because we want people to be able to keep their jobs. If people have a job, consumption is also, then the economy is on full swing and that is good for society. That's where we want to go. I don't see the point. So I'm disappointed, and I'm angry. I want to express that here, too. I have a few more questions. Mr Vandenberghe, you co-signed a letter from Voka not long ago, at the end of August. The caption of the letter was: "These companies created more than 10 500 jobs in 2015 and 2016. Why did you sign that letter if you knew this was coming? Do you think it's appropriate that you co-signed such a letter? You say you want to continue to digitize and innovate. Then why are so many jobs in the ICT department being removed? Can you explain that? Can you also tell us about the share of older workers? You wouldn't use SWT. Is that right? How many older employees are there? What will you do for the redundant workers? I follow Mr Ducarme in that. The government will be a front to ensure that the number of redundancies is reduced to a minimum, because this cannot be done. The plan before us is shocking, not only for the families but also for us. What will you do for those who have to leave anyway? Do you take your social responsibility in guiding you to new jobs, both from your own staff and from those jobs that will disappear indirectly at the independent offices? That's between a thousand and two thousand jobs, too. Finally, I also have a few questions for the trade unions. Social dialogue should be launched soon. You will then have the opportunity to submit any alternatives. Are they there yet? Are you working on some slopes? Which are the slopes you're thinking of? And how can we support you in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would in turn like to thank the trade unions and the management for their presence. This is, of course, a very delicate stage in the dossier, which has a huge social impact due to the number of people affected by this intention for collective redundancies. We note from the statements made by both parties that we are at the very early stage of the Renault Act and that social dialogue must now be given every opportunity. That procedure has now begun, in accordance with the Renault Act. It must therefore be fully used for what it is intended to be. Mr Vandenberghe, I think that Mr Lanjri goes a little too far in her reasoning when she asked you what you would do about bridge pensions and all kinds of other matters. The first thing I care about is which jobs you can save. You have announced the intention to fire x number of people, and you confirm today that this is an intention, and not anymore. I hear strong arguments from the trade unions and the question whether it is a viable model, if so many people disappear from the organisation; whether ING can continue to work in a good way if so many people have to leave the workplace. I hope that you will make a commitment to this in the first instance. I hope that in the debate you will be holding together in the works council you will try to reduce and adjust the numbers. After all, this is a very drastic decision, in which, apart from the independent office network, we are talking about almost half of the staff. Even if we go to digitalization... digitalization has been going on for a number of years, a lot of people are already banking digitally, not just at ING. In the coming months or years there will not suddenly be a drastic change that can justify you doing it with half your staff. I understand that low interest rates are a huge challenge for the entire financial sector, not only for ING, but their impact, this year or perhaps early next year, will gradually be felt in the products offered on the market. I therefore have the urgent question: I have heard a certain openness from the management and I hope that they will work on it to at least try to reduce the number of redundancies that have been announced. I really hope that you will work together in the coming period to examine, as the law requires, alternatives and to look at proposals that will come from the employees' representatives and the secretaries, and that the management will give a fundamentally sound answer to them. It would not be the first restructuring in which very drastic decisions were announced and perhaps even implemented, but it would have to be established after two years that it was necessary to re-enlist, because the plan that had been put the company's market position at risk because it would no longer be possible to carry out certain tasks. Banking remains a business of trust for me and the bank will still have to make it clear to the customer, after the negative publicity at the moment, that the confidence is there and that the service continues to be guaranteed. At least I think it's a good thing you're both here from the board. I have a better feeling about that than Caterpillar, whose people didn't come here. That was a sign to me that they regard it as completely drowned at the moment. Now, on this matter, I feel like a conversation is possible. I therefore place my hopes on both sides to work constructively together in the coming period to see what is possible. If the intention is confirmed, hopefully with updated figures but even with what has been announced, I hope that we can work together with the government to make the best possible use of activation. You will understand that it is very important for my party to lead people back to a job as soon as possible. Should the intention become more concrete, I would like to propose once again and urgently that people who find a job should leave as soon as possible, perhaps with a part or a large part of the package that would end up in a later social plan, so that those who find a solution can also seize it and not be pushed into unemployment. It is a good thing that the bank does not think first of all of a bridge pension. I always find it a pity that this is the first method to be taken, because it certainly pushes the elderly off the labour market. That's a last resort, if there's nothing else. My message is to please bet on what the law allows you. In this way, I hope that we will succeed in establishing a sustainable model for ING, not only for accounting and financial purposes in the short term, but also in the long term in competition with the other banks, with sufficient staff and sufficient quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers, especially Mr Vandenberghe. I think it's brave that you've come here. You're doing better than Caterpillar's management. Mr President, I do not need ten minutes to express my indignation. Mr Vandenberghe, the workers should be a priority, your employees who worked faithfully for years for you, who did their best, who have already experienced savings rounds and who were flexible. You underestimated all that. You thought it wouldn't be so bad, but every human being knows that there's a slaughter field, that this isn't human. Digitalization is a priority for you, okay, but I think that's a lame excuse. I think you're just trying to create more profits for your shareholders. Apparently, computers and shareholders are more important than employees and customers at ING. The unions want to help. They want to contribute constructively to and co-think about digital evolution. However, it is clear that you underestimate the impact of this. This leads to job losses, especially in the lower framework and middle framework. Do you think, Mr Vandenberghe, that computers can offer better service than people? Why are you doing this so brutally? Not because the employees do not do their best, not because they are not flexible or because your company has suffered losses, because you have made beautiful profits that you could generously pay out to your shareholders. Why couldn't you do this in an elegant way and more spread over time? My impression, Mr Vandenberghe, is that there is talk of advertising. You say you will use more computers and work more flexibly for young and old with better services. Will you be able to do that with fewer people? I don't think so. I have a question. The government was informed by you earlier about this operation. Can you tell me when this happened? How was the government and by whom? Finally, Mr Vandenberghe, you assume that the roof must be restored when the sun shines. However, Mr Vandenberghe, your house will collapse when the foundations are removed. That's what's happening here now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u28	Mr President, we have asked for these hearings, on the one hand, to hear the workers' representatives and to express our solidarity with them; on the other hand, to hold ING's management to account – and that is what I will do in a few seconds – and then to seek solutions. Because I hear compassion and lamentation from some members of the majority, but – and this is the work we will do with Mr Peeters – at one point, we will have to say stop and decide on the legal tools that prevent these repeated dismissals. Caterpillar, ING, cannot be subjected indefinitely to companies which make significant profits, Mr Vandenberghe, and which nevertheless decide to terminate. First of all, I would like to better understand this decision and the role, your role, the role of Belgium, in this choice of ING to dismiss. Who made the decision? How have the interests of Belgian workers, the societal interests of a bank of Belgian origin, been taken into account? I have the impression that you are a little (excuse me, I don't want to be unpleasant) the sales representative, the one who has to go and announce the bad news, sometimes with the awkwardness that limits to the cynicism of slogans. How has ING's social responsibility, the former BBL, been taken into account? You represent a bank that makes significant profits, has societal importance, a bank that, like others, had to rely on public capital at the time of the financial crisis, because it had made mistakes. You're distributing dividends worth billions of euros. And nevertheless, you decide to dismiss. For example, has the image risk for ING been taken into account? Because we do not believe that Belgian citizens, the public authorities and the associations will stand by and continue to leave their savings in a company that does not respect social interests or employment in our country! In ING, is anyone interested in these questions? Is this taken into account? Or should we, and this is our conviction, add legal tools to curb this logic of redundancies in case of profits? I hear what you say: the priorities of the future, the willingness to prepare tomorrow. I believe, objectively, that all companies must do so. It's something I can respect on principle. It's not about keeping your arms crossed, not thinking about ten years. But there's also everything you don't say. All that is the offshoring, the outsourcing of your front line functions. I have heard the trade union representatives say: there is a series of things that are no longer done here in Belgium, despite the benefits, which are sent to other countries. You're saying, we're going to prepare digitalization. Where will this happen? EUR 450 million will be invested here in Belgium or the Netherlands? Are you going to create jobs with us? You say: we will strengthen the advisory function, which is the trademark of ING. The advisory function is indispensable. It is essential for both our SMEs and our citizens. And not only for our fellow citizens who have the means to invest in financial products, but also those who have few resources and who want to buy a home or save. How will you maintain a banking service for all? I hope that ING, following the reaction of this Parliament, the government, can reconsider its decision to dismiss or, at the very least, mitigate the shock. Before I give the floor to my colleague, Kristof Calvo, I would like to know how far you agree to be creative in this area, depending also on what the unions can put on the table. I hear proposals for a different allocation of working time, to move to four-day weeks to keep a maximum of workers on duty. My first priority is, of course, that ING should reconsider its decision, but in the event that it is maintained, are you prepared to show creativity, openness, in order to maintain as many jobs as possible at home as possible, but also a sufficient local anchor? These are the questions I would like to ask you. I reserve a few of them to the representative of the government who I regret is not present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the representatives of the trade unions. These are difficult and also very busy times for you. I appreciate your commitment and your openness. You acknowledge very actively that that world is changing. You have often been part of the solution and you would have liked to have had the chance to be that again. I would like to underline that. Mr Vandenberghe, I try to be careful. Your statements surprised me. If you say you underestimated the emotional impact, I understand that for 0.0%. I say it in percentages, because that is the language you speak. Are you really surprised that firing thousands of people causes such shock? Are you really surprised that there is a great deal of indignation about this decision when you see that you have spread 7 billion dividends to your shareholders over the last ten years? Are you really surprised that your collaborators and Members of this House will not stand for people being put on the streets cold and cold with such profits? That statement bears witness to an incredible world alienation or an incredible chill. You have a lot of stakeholders. It's not just about your shareholders, who are the people you talk to, who are important to you. The employees are also your stakeholders. They have also paid your state aid and tax discounts. That statement has offended me, as has my colleague, Mr Ducarme. I would like to ask you specifically to use the openness you have heard from the trade unions, to get to work with it, to exploit the commitment and creativity of ING's employees. In that respect, I expect a commitment from you. I expect you to be willing to investigate alternatives and minimise job losses. I agree with a number of colleagues who say that they do not accept the reported figure. Alternatives should be examined more actively. These possibilities are provided for in the Renault Act. I do not expect you to say today that you change your mind, but you must say today that you are open to alternatives, that you will really engage with the staff and that you will respect them, because you have underestimated the impact. You must also put your hand in your own bosom. After all, the Internet was not invented yesterday. The bank transfer hasn't been backed up since yesterday. It was therefore also your responsibility and the responsibility of ING's management to prepare more actively for this disruption and technological change, so that it did not have to come to that. Why have you not been more active in this area over the past few years? In doing so, I take an abstract view of the steps that have already been taken. I would also like to ask you about this. Finally, I have one final question. I would very much like you to be transparent about outsourcing and moving certain activities, I understand towards the Philippines, Bulgaria and/or Hungary. It makes sense that something like this is shared in the conversation we are having. Those data have reached me, too. Employees are looking for a place where they can tell their story. Those stories have reached me, too. I would like you to be transparent here in Parliament and here in the hemisphere about what you are already doing, but above all about what you intend to do. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I see the same indignation here in committee as after Caterpillar. Nevertheless, I would like to call for this indignation to be maintained and for the necessary consequences to be drawn. Our group has tabled a proposal to limit the dismissals of the stock exchange and, above all, to limit the transfer of wealth towards shareholders. It is time for some reciprocity, whereby we make tax reductions, state aid, training aid and all forms of support to multinational companies dependent on job creation and job retention. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take these steps in order to be able to look straight into the eyes of the employees who have stuck their necks out and who are still open to the conversation in a year's time. Otherwise, today's outrage is really not much more than crocodile tears. A dossier such as ING deserves a sustained political action as well as political actions that really show that we are learning something and in which we, together, majority and opposition, make it clear that we do not accept such things. The fact that people are angry about that news makes a lot of sense. Mr Vandenberghe, you should not be surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u30	Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome the presence of each other, but also, and above all, to express my support for each of the people who, today, are potentially affected by this dismissal, which gives rise to major uncertainty. Indeed, given the large number of redundancies that are announced, every person working in this bank thinks that they could be affected. This concern is particularly difficult to live by. If I were to remember two words, it would be the words "violence" and "brutality", the violence and the brutality of the announcement. Indeed, the dismissal of 3 158 out of 8 131 (all persons employed by ING Belgium) constitutes a huge figure: 40% of all staff. Yesterday, I was again able to see the violence and brutality in communication since the staff received an e-mail – obviously, digital is passing everywhere – in which they let them know that they are fired, but that they cannot complain about it. Forgive me for telling you, gentlemen, that this is an extraordinarily divergent, paradoxical and brutal way of doing things. In my view, brutality can also be seen in the context. Indeed, how can we announce the dismissal of 3,158 people (40% of the staff) overnight, without any anticipation or warning. What are the pre-warning signals that have been discussed with trade union organisations? What elements have been put on the works council table, over the last 12 months? How can such an announcement be heard when we know that EUR 1 billion a year has been repatriated to the Netherlands over the last three years? How can we hear words of such brutality? You gave a series of explanations. You talked about digitisation, high taxes, low interest rates. How can you highlight these elements, while justifying the repatriation of your profits to the Netherlands and when the facts do not date from yesterday? Indeed, as president of Febelfin, you have spoken on several occasions in recent years about the challenge of digitisation and what needs to be done to show anticipation at your company level. You are telling us today that it fell on you and that, potentially, 3 158 people are going to be affected. I note that there is a discrepancy in the figures cited by both of them with regard to taxation (ISOC...). We will not be looking at the figures here, but we will have to go back to these elements, in consultation with the government, because decisions will have to be made in this area, in terms of legislative and fiscal tools. We have heard the figure of one billion a year over the last three years, but you have not yet advanced the dividend for 2016 and we would be interested to know what option will be taken at this level. Despite the difficult context and the digitalization problem that has not taken place today, you have decided to maintain a high dividend, which is particularly challenging. I would also like to know the signals that you have discussed with the government. The latter spoke out and the Minister of Employment said, as soon as you announced, that he suspected, that he knew, that he had predicted it. Have discussions taken place with a member of the government or with government firms? What initiatives were you able to consider upstream rather than coming, almost under the pressure, as you say, to have to dismiss? I would now like to address issues that directly affect staff. The priority is to help each of the people concerned and to try to save every job that can be saved, both for the paid staff and for the self-employed who work with ING and who are hardly ever mentioned. What will be the impact for the latter? Are they in addition to the 3,158 people you mentioned? How can you associate them with the ongoing discussions? Will you assume your ING responsibilities and guarantee the professional future of each of the people who will be laid off tomorrow? You are talking about 1,700 redundancies, and I hope that together – you, trade unions and employers – we will be able to see that number down. Do you agree to see him again? Will you condition the fact of reviewing this number down and how? But there are also, out of 3 158, you say, almost 1,500 people for whom they would be natural departures. I hear some colleagues say that you are absolutely not going to use the pre-pension mechanism for "natural departures". Do you confirm that? Are these pension or pre-pension departures? What is the age pyramid within ING? In recent years, you have continued to communicate on commitments. I would like to make it clear, in recent years, about the movements that have taken place at the staff level. How many people have been hired? How many of them have been dismissed in the last three years? Are there other unsaid factors that explain your decision? Have you done projection calculations by saying to yourself: "In view of the changes in future pre-pension rules, it is now that we have to lay off", because it would cost you less by using the pre-pension mechanism, given the evolution of your age pyramid? Have you decided to lay off older staff, even though there would be younger employees? As we know, the cost of the company has a significant impact. Still at the staff level, what percentage of the payroll you have allocated annually in recent years to training? Because we're talking about digital transformation, but it's managed in terms of human resources within a company, it's anticipated. If this is anticipated, it is also with a series of developments in training and work organisation. So, the government decided to blow up the 1.9 per cent budget rule to be allocated on the payroll to training. What did you actually put on the budget table for staff training? I would like to make one more point, ladies and gentlemen. This concerns customers and small savers. I have two comments. The first is that you actually announce the reduction in the number of agencies, justifying it by the association. On the other hand, you say that this will not change anything for the customer, especially since the customer is delighted to do pc-banking. That's right. Let's recognize him! There are a lot of customers who are delighted to do pc-banking. But there is also a digital divide in Belgium which is not negligible. It is not a question of recalling here the reasons why there is a digital divide. Of course, I'm talking about the customers. The challenge is therefore to maintain a sufficient number of agencies, not only to do the investment board, but also to do the little things of everyday life for people who are directly affected by the digital divide. This is a challenge for the future. My second comment concerns small savers. What is still in their savings account, when one billion dividends are announced to go back to the Netherlands every year? These little savers, in the background, don't have much. Of course, I imagine you will refer to the decisions of the European Central Bank. The legal minimum rate is 0.11% and I hear the representatives of the banking sector say that they do not even want this legal minimum rate to be maintained. That's what they say. You want to make him disappear. Again, of course, this is particularly shocking in the face of these repatriated profits. Finally, on the long-term strategy, you say that ING Belgium is also facing decisions that are taken in the Netherlands. There is a fundamental question. Tomorrow, what will ING Belgium still weigh in the big house ING? We know you're going to potentially amputate him by 40% of his staff. The decision-making centre is obviously not in Belgium. Isn't it time today to have transparency on the more general strategy of the mother house in the Netherlands? Yes or no, does your mother-house still really want to keep ING in Belgium? There are still many questions, especially to the government and colleagues of the majority. These are important points that I will address with the government earlier, and even more in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u31	Mr Vandenberghe, I was at the demonstration this morning at the headquarters of ING in Marnix, where trade union representatives were also present. That's where this hat distributed by the trade unionists and this badge for employment came from. The hat represents the beneficiaries of these plans that will sacrifice employment. The staff were in numbers, as well as the staff of the other banks, and were doubly angry. The most serious fact is this massive loss of employment, but there is also this employers' dictatorship which prohibits them, for example, from speaking on social networks. ING workers cannot speak out. They have a fundamental shock and they cannot express it on social networks. They got e-mails, threats. They were banned from being on an emotional strike on Monday. Today, some received text messages from their leader asking them where they were while they were officially registered as strikers! It is a truly intolerable intimidation policy that is in addition to the ignoble manoeuvring against employment. This staff was warned by making it clear that those who rebel will be on the departure list! It's clearly announced, you can do no head, that's what I was told today! You said, "We underestimated the emotional shock." I'm not surprised when I hear your supreme CEO, Ralph Hamers, say that "exciting things are going to happen." When you only work for profit, for shareholders, you don't expect more than 3,000 job losses to create an emotional shock! I'll tell you where this emotional shock comes from, Mr. Vandenberghe. It comes from what you practice as social vandalism. There's no other word. You're a social thug, a mercenary. I would also like to know how much you earn to do the dirty job, to eliminate more than 3,000 jobs in Belgium. That's one of the questions I'm asking you. You're giving us plenty of arguments for restructuring. I think the main reason, as we have seen in Caterpillar and we are back today, is the cost of capital. The government is always talking about the cost of work. I think there is above all the cost of capital: 7.2 billion dividends distributed by ING Belgium to its parent company in ten years: this is the real reason for restructuring! I'm not saying there are no secondary motives. You were invoking interest rates, bank taxes, too low capital and, on television, I heard you talking about digitalisation. You give us a series of factors. We know how many job losses you're planning. Aim for these job losses! Tell us that such a factor has such an impact, another such impact. Otherwise, how did you determine the number of job losses? Tell us how you got to that number? I hear you talking about the fact that you need significant equity to face the challenge! In any case, excuse me, but Belgium's own funds have run out of $7.2 billion in recent years. This argument therefore seems surprising to me! You're talking about the bank tax. This must be weighed against all the gifts you have received. For example, notional interest and other corporate tax deductions that have allowed you, in ten years, to pay only 12% of taxes and have a tax rebate of $2.3 billion! All the exemptions in respect of professional discount, the reductions in social contributions, not to mention all the overtime provided free of charge by the staff without having been declared to the Social Inspectorate. Make us a list of all the public gifts you have received, we'll balance them with the bank tax and we'll see which side is on the balance! Is that what you received or is this bank tax that you invoke as an alibi a little easily? It should not be forgotten that workers not only have the social shock today but they have made sacrifices for ten years. Tell me if it's true or not? In the last ten years, there has been no single collective agreement to review the baraemic increase in staff. It has been ten years of wage sacrifice to achieve the elimination of more than 3,000 jobs. That is the reality! Digitalization. First of all, when I hear you, Mr. Vandenberghe, you didn't say it today, I think, but you said it on TV or in the newspapers, "It's the client who wants it." The customer asks for digitalization! So, actually, if we cut 3,000 jobs, it's not us, it's the client's fault. Excuse me, Mr. Vandenberghe, but it's a little serious! I'll give you an anecdote. A few days ago, I was taking money from the Bancontact. An old gentleman came there with a Bancontact card from a woman, an old lady, who had asked her to go and withdraw to her savings account. Because withdrawing to the savings account with a Bancontact card is not so easy, she didn't know how to do it. That is also the reality. It's the digital divide. So digitalization, you also know that internally, it makes staff laugh, when you know that at ING Belgium, you have an old computer system running on an old IBM Cobol technology. So where are the IT investments you're putting forward today, when you haven't actually invested and you're still turning on an old system? And above all, the fundamental question: when digitalisation occurs, it brings productivity gains. Who benefits from these productivity gains? That's a question to ask. Does this lead to redundancies? Or, perhaps, since it brings more profits, more profits, should this cost of capital be reviewed? When a customer does pc-banking at home, who is paid? Do you pay the client? What compensation do you give to the client who does the job himself? Nothing. Is it the shareholder who does the work on pc-banking? No. Then why is it he who touches profit? That's another question to ask. Of course, if there is digitalisation, and I would like to see it in part, it is a historical process that is known in all sectors, and particularly in the banking sector, if there are productivity gains, just share these productivity gains and reduce working time. At the PTB, it was calculated that only by going from 35 to 30 hours/week at ING Belgium, there would be a way to save 1,000 jobs. So, why don't you look at this lead? I'm asking you the question. Are you considering it? If not, why not? Outsourcing, offshoring, we know that projects exist. We know you've already made progress in this area. That is, in fact, what you are already doing, and going to do even more, is to relocate to far west social (Philippines, Poland, Bulgaria), underpay the workers there and create a social desert here. And again, when I say from there, we also know that you bring Indian subcontractors to Belgium, that you subpay in Belgium. But obviously, you're going to say, "Ah, but it's not us, it's the subcontractors." But the result is the same. Not to mention this department of ING in the Philippines, Philippines which are still a country today chaired by a former member of the death squads that compares itself to Adolf Hitler. I don't know if it's the best choice in terms of offshoring either. In conclusion, I believe that this plan is unacceptable. This plan will require the mobilization of all forces in Belgium to withdraw it. Not to amend it, not to say, "Here we are, we're going to make pre-boards, we're going to do this, we're going to do this to reduce the shock." I think we need to remove this plan. If this plan passes, first of all, it is a disaster for all the people concerned at ING. Then, if this plan goes to ING, it is clear that it will follow in the other banks. It is clear that the other banks will say: "ING has done so, we, today, are obliged to do so too." We already have a social disaster today. Then we'll have a tenfold social disaster. So I think this plan is not acceptable. The workers are mobilized, as we saw today. The political world, I hope it is mobilized to reject this social plan. In any case, that is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u32	Mr President, I have heard a lot of economic arguments and comments from my fellow Members on business logic. As a member of the Social Affairs Committee, I will try to highlight the social side a little more and put questions in that context. First of all, I have a great understanding of the disappointment, fears and frustrations of ING's employees and their families involved. The most important question we need to ask at the moment is how to proceed with the workers who will have to leave. How can we ensure that they can still work in our labour market in a different way? At the moment, it does not offer any comfort to the staff involved, but I would like to point out that figures have been published today in Trends that indicate that net jobs in our Belgian labour market, including drama events such as ING and Caterpillar, are adding more than 40 000 jobs every year. According to the National Bank, this rate will be maintained in the coming years. Now that does not offer any comfort, but it does open up a number of opportunities for those involved to get back to work. Two things are very important and ING must accept its responsibility. Mr Vandenberghe, I heard you say a few things about this in relation to which I would like you to clarify a little. You say that you will do everything with ING to ensure that employees can find new jobs. You also say that you will not call in the bridge pension system. ING will take responsibility, you said. You will discuss this with the social partners. I have two questions about that. Can we conclude from your statements that older workers, i.e. over 50, will not be more affected proportionally than the other age groups when it comes to redundancies or other redundancies? What do you mean when you say that you will not call in the bridge pension stricto sensu, in the legal sense? Are you thinking of a more conventional exit scheme, type Canada Dry? You have also said that you will actively help the employees to find another job. Could you be more specific about that? What initiatives are you thinking of?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u33	First of all, I would like to share the words of my two colleagues, Eric and Ahmed, in their earlier remarks. It is clear that we share your emotion, your anger, your indignation at this announced decision. As parliamentarians, it is important that we be as informed as possible about what has been announced and what is being prepared to be able to take, as has been said earlier, the best initiatives to protect the workers concerned and prevent this from happening again. I'll ask a few questions to feed my knowledge of the situation. So you're announcing more than 3,000 job losses. And you mentioned, at the level of trade union representatives, that these figures may not be definitive and may be even more important. I would like you to confirm that this is a maximum negotiating figure, which will fall within the scope of this one, and that it is a gross figure and not a net figure in relation to future commitments. It is clear that all job losses are rejected, either by natural departures or by dismissals, but this is obviously even more difficult when it comes to dry layoffs. The restructuring plan is accompanied by a financial forecast, a financial plan of the company. How much will this generate additional benefits in the coming years between the restructuring option and the non-restructuring option? How is this additional benefit divided between natural departures and dry layoffs? In other words, with the profits generated in future years – I didn't hear that ING was afraid of being at a loss – are these dry layoffs really a necessity? That a company must constantly adapt to the changing society is normal, but I would have liked to know how high dry layoffs were to generate additional benefits. I would also like to know, and other colleagues have asked the question, which will be concerned, and why, in particular, IT workers. Finally, last question, because I don't want to be too long. You're talking about accompaniment. I hope that there will not be any, because there will be no dry layoffs at the end of the negotiations, but if there are any, what support do you envisage? It may be too early to give the last details, but as has been expressed in the press, I think you can already express a few main points in terms of accompaniment. And when I say accompaniment, they're two guys. Accompaniment in terms of finding a new job for the people concerned: what support and how long will you give to allow these workers to put in conditions - I was going to say the best or the worst - to find a job? And what kind of compensation, what kind of financial support do we need to avoid putting these workers and their families in a state of precariousness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Daerden. Mr Van Quickenborne, chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, also wishes to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u35	First of all, I would like to thank the people of the trade unions for expressing their anger and their concerns during the difficult times in which they are here, and to enable us to hold a debate openly. Mr Vandenberghe, when the third largest company was announced after Sabena and Ford Genk, I was very indignant when I heard your CEO say: "The whole company is going on the shovel." You know what the word "kicks" means to us: kick people out. I have the impression that, with the Dutch method used at the bank, you call that cutting to blossom and such, bringing out the axe is going to be very drastic. In addition, we know the Belgian way. We'll do it another way. The question I would like to ask you is whether you as CEO have had sufficient impact on the plan, so that it can be digestible here as well? A second concern is the fate of our older workers. I said that yesterday in plenary. I cannot get the impression that business closures and slimmings are being used to put on the door massively older workers who would be too expensive, who would not be sufficiently productive. How can you guarantee that this will not be the case with you? My party introduced the proposal of an age pyramid to respect it. I also see support for this from various parties. Are you going to practice that age pyramid? Will you take into account the age element in your staff? A third question is the sustainability of your plans. You will merge two systems ING Nederland and ING Belgium. You're going to merge Record Bank and ING. You will do that by slimming down the number of offices and creating one platform. Are you sure about those strategic choices? Specialists say this has never been shown in the banking world. I agree with what Mr Lachaert has said about this. Are you sure that after the mass redundancies announced today, you will not have to reapply in the long term to correct any mistakes? To what extent has the banking tax, and the banking tax reform, contributed to the decisions you have taken? The recently reformed banking tax also takes account of the branches. The conversions in the financial market room are currently included in the calculation of the banking tax. You know that ING has an important market room. I read that two out of three employees from that market room will have to disappear to other countries. Is that a consequence of the reformed banking tax? Can you clarify that? As far as the period of uncertainty is concerned, there have been speculations about possible mass redundancies at ING for a long time. You confirmed that Monday morning. I imagine there are a lot of people on the floor with individual questions: "What will my fate be?" What's happening to me? Can you end this period of uncertainty as quickly as possible, tell us what the plans are and what future the people are waiting for? You're also President of Febelfin. I would also like to ask you a few questions in that capacity. I have heard that there would be plans to introduce a financial transaction tax instead of the speculative tax, which is the reality of the Treasury costing more money than it costs. In other words, we would tax all financial transactions in our country. Can you, as President of Febelfin, tell me what the effect of such a financial transaction tax on employment in that sector would be? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on all of you. It is clear that the drastic changes caused by the digital revolution, among other things, have a huge impact on employment, on our economy. We have discussions about Uber, we have discussions about the banks and there will be discussions about them. It seems to me that it would be a good option for Parliament, with the cooperation of my fellow Members, to order a special committee, if necessary, to look at, examine and see to what extent the challenges and opportunities are associated with the difficulties and threats that exist. Mr Laurette Onkelinx asked me a question about this a few months ago. I think it would be a good thing if we in Parliament were to be able to give an answer in the light of what is now changing. That is a proposal that I would like to pass on to the Conference of Presidents, so that it is dealt with. Voilà, Mr President, I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u36	I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for their intervention. Thank you all for your interventions. Having said that, I would like to say here that the quality of the debate is inversely proportional to the speaking time allocated. I note that, when speaking time is limited, everyone is much more to the point. I would like to thank all members for their efforts of synthesis and brevity. I would now like to go back to ING's presence and what has been said about the Renault law. But before that, I would like to thank the representatives of the trade unions for their presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you take note of the support of the Federal Parliament, the House of Representatives. Mr Vandenberghe, you must know that we appreciate being able to have an exchange of views with the management of ING. Indeed, considering the Caterpillar case, the Renault procedure was only a pretext for not facing such a public debate. Yet, in my view, transparency is the condition of democratic debate, which, of course, can be difficult. A number of expressions have been used by trade unions and parliamentarians because the shock is harsh. But, in our view, it was useful for you to be able to hear them. Finally, Mr. Vandenberghe, you talked about dry layoffs. The President Here, the expression uses prunes to grow. But there's a change, there's also oatmeal blood to grow. And that's exactly what's happening here. Of these 1,700 redundancies, you said, "We'll see to it that we reduce that number." I retained that sentence. Beyond what has been said in this debate, social dialogue will continue with the social partners and with governments. It is worth considering this as an opening so that the social shock of what has been announced can be reduced. I think it's worth spending time, energy and intelligence on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u37	I have noted a lot, because a lot has been said. I will do my best, as always, to respond as transparently as possible to the questions I can answer. Again, there is a law and I cannot deviate from it. I have also heard here that there will be close monitoring of the application of the law. Sorry about that, but I will abide by the law. The first thing I want to say is that I am very well aware of the enormous impact on people, on our employees. I said that a year ago, but I will say that: I am proud of what our employees have achieved. I am very aware of the impact of our declaration of intent. If we quote statements from colleagues from Amsterdam and if they are misunderstood, then I apologise in their name, quite clearly. At the same time, however, I also support ING's vision today. I think we should have the courage to do things when we can do them, and not put our heads in the sand. There are many quotes given here from all kinds of people. I have heard over the last few days, and I hope that you will also follow what Mrs Lagarde of the IMF said yesterday or the day before yesterday in an interview on the dossier concerning Deutsche Bank. In fact, one should follow the whole interview. She said: "Digital banking: look what ING has announced." It is going to happen to many banks." We are ahead and we have the courage to deal with things when we can deal with them. I think it's important to look forward, to have a vision for the future. We are indeed a profitable company and we want to keep it that way. By being profitable, we can also do everything we want to do, and this is also my commitment to make things work as best we can for our employees. By which I mean that we will accept our responsibility. When I am asked what I mean exactly when I say that as an employer I will not apply to the legal bridge pension, I think this is a clear statement. We will accept our responsibility. We are prepared to do so, and that is an absolute must for me. A lot has been said about the dividends we pay. I can certainly say something about that. A lot of questions have come up. We have been talking about the support we receive. Firstly, ING has never invoked State aid in Belgium. ING has received state aid in the Netherlands and we could only be grateful for that. We have received state aid and we have repaid it in full. I think we have received EUR 10 billion and repaid EUR 13.5 billion in the Netherlands. We have never received state aid in Belgium. That's what I'm saying. I am talking about state aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u38	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u39	I am talking about state aid that we received in 2008. As ING, we have applied legal measures, including the notional interest deduction. We have made the analysis and I repeat that ING is never said here in 2012, 2013 and 2014 at number 1 or 2 was in relation to the payment of corporation tax in this country, all sectors together. You can check that, those are the correct numbers. I didn't start here with a story where I was talking about bank charges. I just said that in our case, bank charges will increase from 199 million euros to 255 million euros between 2015 and 2016. That's all I'm saying, that's just facts. I believe that our company, as I said at the beginning, really contributes its stone to Belgian society. Those are some examples I give you. There are 7.2 billion dividends in ten years. That's right, I'm not gonna deny that. Those dividends didn't go outside ING. A group such as ING has also had to increase its capital ratios and will probably still have to do so. The dividends have served that purpose. We are part of a group, as many other colleagues in other countries are part of that group, and those dividends serve, among other things. Now we are talking about dividends that ING Belgium has paid to the group. This year we have not yet committed a dividend, because we do want to see what scope we have for doing a number of things within the framework of the intentions we have now announced. On these intentions, there has been a question of whether we have discussed this with certain members of the government beforehand. I can tell you quite clearly: no. We have always said: if legislation may apply to us, the legislation on collective redundancies in this case, then we cannot and will not discuss it. So that did not happen, I want to make that very clear. Again, all kinds of figures have been quoted in connection with the offices. I'd like to say a few words about that. I know it's complicated sometimes, but I try to give the numbers very correctly. I said that ING Belgium now has more or less 700 agencies in the country. Record Bank has about 500. With this network of more than 1,200 agencies, we represent, and by far, the bank with the largest number of agencies. We intend to integrate the two networks of agencies and move to 650 agencies, allowing us to be present throughout the country. Many banks have the same number of agencies. Record Bank customers who now have access to 500 agencies will have access to 650 agencies in the future. It's not a magic calculation, it's just a reality. It was asked whether Belgium's influence in such decisions was sufficient. I'd like to put things in context there. I did not compare the impact on employment with the ING Group for ING Netherlands, but I did compare the impact on employment with ING Netherlands. For ING Nederland's staff and teams working for customers in the Netherlands, between 2011 and 2021, the period of the plan we have laid down will decrease by about 50% of the workforce. If the intentions are implemented, there will be a decrease of just under 50% for ING Belgium in the same period. The two countries are thus affected in the same way. That is the reality. It's balanced. It's a lot, it's huge, but it's not like Belgium is making a much bigger effort proportionally than the Netherlands. I know that yesterday or the day before yesterday there was a debate in the Dutch House of Representatives, where the Dutch Minister of Finance was also interviewed on this matter. The Dutch are a bit more blunt in the way they say business. I referred to this at the beginning of my speech and apologized for it. The Minister of Finance has said that we will have to get used to what is happening at ING, because this will still happen. That's the way he answered. I can quote other quotes. A number of renowned economists say that if ING or any other bank does not do what it wants to do today as a transformation it is really a transformation of the bank to play its full role in personal and digital advice, that it may then be a dinosaur tomorrow and then the management will be blamed for not doing what it had to do in time. I have also heard the question of why we have not done so before or why we have been too slow. Let's be clear. Who could have estimated two or three years ago that digitisation and low interest rates would evolve so dramatically? No one can predict that. The following question was asked: "Do you think that the project you put on the table, as an intention, is sustainable?" Is that project sustainable, because it hasn't happened yet? We are indeed pioneers in what is on the table. However, when we look at the big digital players... If you look at the big digital players, they work with a unique platform for the whole world. What we want to do is also done regularly in the industry, in any case by the companies that are there for the future. We want to do this at the level of ING Belgium in partnership with our colleagues at ING Netherlands. We want to create this platform. It is clear that we have thought well before putting this on the table. I understand a lot and, those who know me know, I'm someone who's always been close to the teams. I also visited the teams on Tuesday morning. It wasn't to provoke anyone. I insist that it was about listening to people, talking and explaining things. And I will continue to do this, to play my part, but I also believe that we must have a vision for the sustainability of this enterprise. Otherwise, if we don't have the courage to do the right thing at a time when we know how to do it, one day we may not exist anymore, like other companies that have certainly been mentioned here. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u40	I am now addressing the trade unions in the same order, Mrs Maes and Mrs Verstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u41	We hear here that our indignation is shared, especially when it comes to subsidies, reductions in charges. I have heard Mrs Lanjri and several other people say that. Then we hear that there is such a drastic cut in employment. That is also our question and one of the things we are looking at you Members of this House for. Indeed, make those subsidies, those cuts in charges, those gifts, don't give a rat's ass. Please make demands on employers. They now receive gratuite gifts without any guarantee of employment. We are looking at you for that, and try to do something about it. It must stop the employers saying that it is far too expensive to keep the employment here and ask for measures. Something is being done about it and what do we see? That one company after another keeps cutting jobs and making jobs disappear drastically. Training and training must also be a major priority. I've heard that say too. However, much more work needs to be done on an individual right to education and training. We have seen in Minister Peeter's plans that a collective right to education will now be achieved, but we have known this collective right for several years in our sector. That's nothing new. We cannot say that we have not worked on this in the sector, but as long as that right remains collective, it often goes to a limited group of people and not to those who need it most. We are looking at you for that too. If you really think education and training is important and want to work on it, then we want to play our part, but then we will have to take much more concrete measures and not let them be managed collectively in the company. Individual rights to education and training must then be developed. I come to the labour redistributing measures. We've heard it say it, too. I think this is very important. The possibilities for part-time work have now been drastically reduced. That's not a good thing. Work redistributing measures must be put in place so that more people can remain at work. I would also like to add something about SWT. The management says that they will not use SWT, but that 1 700 employees will be fired naked. Some of them are likely to end up in unemployment, and ING is no longer responsible for this. When it comes to taking responsibility, I think there are other things to do than to say that no use will be made of SWT. Digitisation can also be done in a social way for us. That's what I said earlier. We are absolutely aware that banking today is going to be very different from two or three years ago and it will probably be different in five years' time. After all, the computer can take over a lot of tasks. However, a lot of things will never take over a computer. Providing good advice to someone who wants to invest must be done by people. There is therefore no need to cut such a drastic cut in the first-line customer service. Many measures have been taken to prevent another crisis, as a few years ago. It is about risk prevention, about risk profiles for each customer. Anyone working in the banking sector knows that a list of questions needs to be filled out. It is necessary to check whether the customer understands everything and sees the possible consequences. Is that gonna be left to a computer from tomorrow? Then I would like to see again which risk derivatives will result from this. The people in the offices can really bring added value in this respect. That is why we want to convince everyone that digital can also be social. People can make a difference. In this respect, we are counting on you to work with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you also asked us what our intentions were. First of all, we intend to call the Belgian directorates to reason. The question of whether the plan was sustainable and sustainable was also raised. Our analyses show us that running a business like the one that ING wants to run, that maintaining a quality of service by removing 3,158 jobs between 2017 and 2021 is certainly not sustainable. On the other hand, it is again shocking and irreverent to hear Mr Vandenberghe say that with a restructuring of this magnitude, he wants to be the pioneer in the sector. What do these job losses represent over time, over a period of 2017 and 2021. This represents no more than 790 jobs lost each year. Does this management realize the magnitude? I would like to add here that between 2006 and 2016, ING has already experienced a decrease of 4,000 jobs. In this context, our first objective is to call this direction to reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u43	Mr President, the advantage of being on the common front is that we do not have to repeat what others say. Indeed, we have the same opinion with regard to workers, since we have a duty to defend people. Above all, we were asked what we were going to do. I think I can say that this question has already been partially answered. Our idea is indeed to check the credibility of the plan which is proposed at the level, in particular, of the problem of digitalisation. You have been able to understand today, through a new light, that there is indeed a digitization factor. We have never rejected it and we work throughout the banking sector in which we support this digitalisation (this happens at BNP, KBC and Belfius). But we must note that the way in which social consultation is organised in these banks differs in particular from that practised at ING. In the coming weeks and after gathering all the information, we intend to distinguish between what really concerns problems related to digitalisation and conversion, and training in-house. I reminded you earlier that this is one of our great challenges, which is absolutely not reflected in the plan presented. We don't talk about it very much. It seems to us that there is little willingness to work with staff in-house or that this issue was quickly eluded in the context of the notion of dismissal. It is clear that we, trade union organisations, will come with counter-proposals because we cannot accept that the problem of digitalisation is linked to purely outsourcing, job displacement and functions in other countries. It's not a digitalization problem. We will make the distinction and demonstrate that we want to work on digitalisation, but we will not let ourselves be caught up in the problems of outsourcing or better remuneration of shareholders. We ask ourselves the same question as Mrs Fonck when she raised the question of what has happened in recent months to put this plan on the agenda? Indeed, before the holidays and for the last two years, we have been working with the company's delegates on a series of plans that concern job losses that have been announced. And nothing has filtered in recent months about a plan of such magnitude regarding digitalization. At this stage, we have seen that there is a huge gap in communication, that we have deliberately hidden the fact of revealing this plan. And it was only through the insistence, with the rumours that were circulating at the level of some members of management, that the management finally announced what you all could see, namely this social tragedy, only through the insistence of the trade unions. It is clear that we are certainly not resigned, nor are the staff. It is a clear fact that we have met with you and the government today and that, as part of this distinction between working on the future of the company with regard to digitalization, we fully agree to negotiate with the employer; but there are points today that we cannot accept. So we will come with counter-proposals and that is where we will ask for your support and the support of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u44	In addition to what previous colleagues have said, I would like to comment on the question of whether everything suddenly happened and how social dialogue is proceeding. For one of the major parts of the restructuring, in particular the agencies, I can tell you that offices have been closed for many months, including the first months of 2016. Lists! Charleroi is one example, but this is the case in all regions. Or there are mergers of autonomy, where, as we know, there are always major problems. These were also put forward in the newspapers by a federation other than Febelfin. A socially passive self-employed person is then built up, especially in the case of self-employed persons, and forgive me for the expression "small self-employed persons'. This social passiveness is becoming very large and a huge increase in capital is needed in the case of a merger. After that, the major problem of social passiveness may emerge. There will be a social massacre within one or two years. Is there a sustainable plan in this area, but in fact with all competences? No, there's no sustainable plan. You ask the management whether it is minimum or maximum. Well, in this company, and in this sector, one never, ever, has the chance to say that it is minimum or maximum, or that it will be for so much time. That is the reality with which we live and on which we will inform our people as soon as we receive the information next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u45	I thank the two representatives of SETca-FGTB/ABVV. I give the floor to Mrs Lefèvre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u46	For a union, it is always very important to give social dialogue every opportunity. We have done so in the past. Now we will do it again. We have seen as a trade union in 2009 and in 2013 that we have actually done a lot of difficult exercises at that time. We have succeeded and I hope that we will now be able to do so again. However, I would like to send a message to ING's management. Let us sit at the table, and we will certainly do so, but let us first of all clarify the figures. It is very important that there are clear figures. Especially in the case of the naked layoffs, the numbers have to go down. We really need to look together to get these down. I have another message. More and more is included in cost-to-income. It's the cost-to-income thing that's so high and needs to go down. Now it's about digitization, but under this restructuring, the cost-to-income comes back up. I'd like to give you the advice: get rid of those numbers. People are not numbers, they need them within a company. In 2008 and 2009, these workers played an important role. They had to explain to customers what happened in those offices and agencies. Now those same people are being treated like that. More specifically to the workers, and to all of us, I would like to say that we must show and give real solidarity, because we really must tame that lion. We must make it clear to the Netherlands that we Belgians are good students here. We need to be aware of that. And I hope that the Netherlands will join us in reviewing this plan and reducing the number of naked redundancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u47	Mr D'Antuono has the floor for the CSC.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u48	Mr President, Mr Vandenberghe, for anyone aware of the current challenges (the speed at which the world changes), it is clear that no one will ever blame you for taking the bull by the horns and for taking the steps that must be taken to ensure the future. No one will ever blame you. But you were talking about digitalization. When I see what we've done to the IT lately, in recent years, we've emptied the IT of its substance. How? In India, for all that is development. In Romania, for everything that is machines and databases. And the Belgian staff, he had only one thing to do: provide his know-how; he had six months left, more or less, and then he was fired. That's how we did IT, for example. This is not ahead of you. It is totally scattering a major asset which is the IT everywhere, at the expense of Belgian workers. Maybe to put a little balm on your heart, I don't think you're the one who's the most critical of attitude. In the face of Dutch cynicism, it is clear that we are a bit destitute. It's really cynicism. It's worse than cynicism. I would also like you to call to order a large part of your executive committee, which, through its statements, has only put oil on fire and created uncertainty. On the other hand, you rightly said that we did not have any direct aid from the Belgian State. But the transfers to the group to help them pay the famous 13 billion we had to pay, I would like to know the number. In parentheses, have 10 billion and pay back 13 two or three years later, nice operation for the Dutch state!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u49	In Belgium, for KBC, we did the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u50	I'm just making a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u51	KBC does not have a subsidiary in Holland of the size of ING Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u52	At the network level, I fully agree with what Ms Lefèvre said about the involvement of people in the network, who are now in the front line, in fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u53	Again, I would like to thank all stakeholders in management and employee representative organizations for their responses/replies. But there is a great tradition in this house, that Parliament always has the last word. In agreement with my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, I propose a reply of no more than three minutes per speaker, taking over the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u54	Thank you for the additional explanations. I have a few brief comments in the few times we have been given. I really understand a lot of the concerns and comments of the trade unions. I think they should, in the first instance, sit with the management and try to reduce the number of redundancies, let that be clear. I do not follow the trade unions as much, Mrs Lefévre, and I say this with all the empathy in the specific case of 'cost-to-income' objectives. A company must, of course, continue to innovate and be with it in order to avoid the problem getting bigger. I have just given the example of Nokia, a company with a huge number of employees worldwide with huge profits. No one's working for that anymore today. Sooner or later, Google Bank of Apple Bank will come to Belgium and drama events will take place. Is that why we're supposed to be cheering? No, but it's a reality that we have to take into account. I would rather have a bank that is well capitalised and with slightly less employees than no bank or bank that we need to save again, as Deutsche Bank may be doing again. I wanted to draw a little attention to that. Then I think there are a lot of questions left, including for Mr Vandenberghe. Mr Vandenberghe, I did not hear you say anything about the self-employed network. A number of practical questions have been asked. I understand that you cannot answer every question in detail at a hearing, but that is a voice that is heard much less throughout the media story. Those people are a little weaker than the employees. I would like to call for the necessary attention to be paid to this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u55	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Klaps that he would do well to listen to his Minister of Finance, Mr Klaps. Van Overtveldt. He says he prefers a well-capitalized bank. Mr. Van Overtveldt, in 2014, as I said earlier, said that the sector was ragaillardi, that the banks had put their business in order, eased their balance sheet, reduced risks and increased their reserves. That is what Mr. Van Overtveldt in 2014. So come and say today, Mr Vandenberghe, that it is in order to recapitalise the bank that these savings must be made, that is not the case. It's just to ensure the payment of dividends and nothing else. Nothing else! You tell me, "How could we know, five years ago, what would be the evolution?" Google banks, we're talking about it. Do you know a gentleman named Frank Stockx? He works at your house. He is managing director at ING and said, "Deaths have passed and we have rested a little on our laurels." So come and say that, if you don't make decisions today, tomorrow, you'll be dinosaurs... It's not five years ago, it's 15 or 20 years ago that you had to make those decisions. In 1978, Mr Minc said: "Attention to the bank if decisions are not taken by the banking organisations, it will be the steel industry of tomorrow". That's what Alain Minc said in 1978. I guess you read that book. He is a great prospector in terms of evolution, in this technological understanding. You will now allow me to have great frustration. "We're going to take on our responsibilities." If the only way you can take responsibility for the 3,000 workers is to say, "I won't use the pre-pension system," I think you're not at the end of your sentence. And I am sure that anger is not ready to stop expressing itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u56	Mr President, Mr Vandenberghe, the feeling that I live in listening to you is that, in fact, I do not think you are the decision-maker at ING Belgium. I think you've been sent orders and instructions from Holland. You were asked to execute them and then, above all, to try as much as possible to defend the indefensible. We see it: you're uncomfortable. You do not necessarily understand the questions you are asked or you do not answer them. You say you show empathy. Actually, you're not the real decision maker. I believe that, in front of us today, we do not have the real interlocutor. The real interlocutor is the General Staff in Holland. Maybe we'll have an opportunity to hear it, but I think it's with him that we're gonna have to talk. Second element. Again, there's nothing convincing in your explanations. You are set a return on equity target of 10% minimum and above, if possible, and according to this target, you are asked to reduce the wage bill linearly. It is only in a second phase that you are trying to dress the case with a number of reasons that are not on the road and on which a number of inconsistencies have been shown, including the relocation of the IT. Finally, you have not answered some questions, including management's interest in the results and dynamics of your company's results. Are there any options that have been granted to management members, both in Belgium and Holland, in the weeks or months prior to the announcement of this massive restructuring and layoffs? For you, Belgium today is a savings pump, 116 billion deposits collected. This allows you to feed the group's business on a global scale. It's also a dividend pump, but don't imagine we'll let you drain the Belgian economic and social fabric without reacting. You will face a political reaction to the damage you cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u57	Mr President, we thank the management and the unions for this exchange. I think it has brought us a lot. The problem is now much better known, apart from what the press has been able to say. This will certainly not be the last exchange because the problem is being raised today, but I think it will take many more months to resolve it. As far as we are concerned, the objective will be to minimise the number of redundancies, and that is why we will be very attentive to how this will all happen: the part that will really be taken by digitalisation, but also the part that will be taken by transfers of sectors abroad and the part that will be taken by outsourcing. For us, this is something extremely important. Many questions remained unanswered, but this is probably a good war. That is why we will still have to go back to it. The questions ran for an hour and a half but the answer lasted ten minutes. She could not necessarily cover all the questions asked. I have one last question about ING's strategy in the future, based on this business plan that has just been tabled, and which certainly leaves us very sceptical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u58	I would like to thank the speakers, both the trade unions and Mr Vandenberghe. We all appreciate that you are here today. I have to say, I've stayed a little hungry. You did not answer all the questions. I hope that in future we will get an answer to some of the questions that we have asked through the consultations that will also be held with the government and with the trade unions. I am also sorry that you are making a bit of a pun. You're saying you didn't get state aid. I don't think I used that word. You say you've just used the legal means. Well, you should also know, Mr Vandenberghe, that we in the government and Parliament have provided precisely those legal means to enable companies and entrepreneurs to retain and even to create jobs. We had to fight for that, too. In the end, this is about government money, taxpayers' money, which we want to see going to jobs effectively. So let us not discuss a particular word, let us note that you have also been able to enjoy effectively the efforts made by the government to retain and even to create jobs. I want to end with a positive note. In any case, it is clear that everyone here wants further consultation in order to be able to drastically reduce the number of naked redundancies. We cannot afford to have five thousand families without bread on the shelf. Finally, and I think we will hear more about it later on, there will also be a reform of the Renault Act. I believe that we will do everything in our power, including from Parliament, to see how we can meet the aspirations of the affected workers as much as possible, whether they are ING or other companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u59	Mr President, very briefly. Thanks again to all those present. We cannot, of course, get answers to a number of questions because the intention must first be confirmed that the collective dismissal of the announced number will be effective. Together with many fellow Members of this House, I really hope that we can continue to work on this number and that, apart from the rhetoric, there really is a negotiating margin. I would like to express the hope that there will be maximum energy in that. In any case, I hope that this will be an energy source. I have also heard a number of political statements about legislative changes. I think that this is a little less timely in this forum, where we should mainly talk about ING people. I hope that the social dialogue is successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u60	Mr President, I hear that the trade unions are very constructive in this nasty situation. Chapeau before that. I also wish you every success in the negotiations. That's gonna be a tough time. I hope you can save a lot of jobs. Mr. Vandenberghe, do something with it. I have one more question. How do you see the reorientation fund launched by Minister Peeters? Will ING contribute to this? Will other banks contribute to this? Finally, I know that letters have been written to the government, in particular to the Minister of Finance. I'm sorry you're not telling the truth here. Why don't you tell me letters were written? Why do we and the workers not have the right to transparency? That's what's causing suspicion, isn't it? I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u61	Mr President, we are really here, after Caterpillar, before a new school case. I do not know how much it will take for there to be a reaction and measures that change paradigms. I point out four elements. The first is the loss of control over decision-making levers. Clearly, the decision was taken in the Netherlands. Clearly, the profits generated by ING in Belgium were used to repay the public aid received in the Netherlands following the banking crisis. Obviously, you have very little – and I'm still nice by saying "very little" – ability to influence the course of things. You're a bit of a sales representative in a difficult role since Monday to come and explain on TV sets, in front of the unions, here in parliament – you have the merit of coming – what's going on. There are a few slogans. But in terms of decision-making, we lost the decision-making levers at ING at the time of the merger, as we did with Dexia at the time of the merger with Crédit local de France, as we plan to do with other companies tomorrow. I'm thinking of Belfius and Belgacom. We therefore need a Belgian capital mastery if we are to maintain employment and activity in our country. Secondly, the question of the conditionality of aid. "Maak of gifts niet gratis" is obvious! We must stop, and that is what we are told: new incentives, notional interests and reduction of social contributions, without any counterpart to companies. You must maintain employment and create activity in Belgium. If we do not change our shoulder rifle, we will be ruined, there will be no more jobs in Belgium and we will only have served to increase the dividends. The third obvious point is the lack of economic anticipation. Today, we are told that it is in preparation for the digitalisation of the banking service that these redundancies are being carried out. But what have we done over the years? Losing the mastery, here in Belgium, of this digitalisation. I feel like it's too late. You have not answered the question of where this EUR 450 million will be invested. Is it in Belgium that you are going to bet on our young people, who are computer specialists? Is it in Belgium that you will recreate surplus value and position your bank as at the cutting edge? No, I don't believe it. This money will be invested, again, outside. Fourth element. That is why I wanted this to really happen with the Finance Committee, in the presence of the Finance Minister, we have to imagine the bank of the future, with a service of close proximity maintained, with customer support, whether it has capital or not, whether it is an SME or a larger company. To imagine that we are only facing an economic problem, but not a financial problem, is a fundamental mistake of our colleagues, who refused on Monday that the debate should take place in the Finance Committee and that the Minister of Finance should be present here. But we will continue this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u62	Mr Vandenberghe, first of all, I deeply regret the fact that your workers' outstretched hand towards the active search for alternatives remains completely unanswered, and that apparently the outspoken indignation in various political formations does not encourage you to make a stronger commitment. I don't understand. Secondly, I fundamentally disagree with Mr Lachaert, who is in favour of not talking about legislative initiatives in particular. There's a world before Caterpillar and ING and there's a world after that. I do not think it is a very strange idea to develop new legislative instruments to limit dividends subsidies and aid to multinational companies of this kind. Thirdly, our role does not end today, which you did not suggest, but I would argue that we should not keep to it in this regard. The advantage of this setting is that you have to come to account and not to each other in a meeting room, but that this is followed by the representatives of the people and by public opinion. I think you should not be alone in three or six months, so I would like to invite you to let us know when a new meeting such as this could be useful, to stand on the side of the staff as representatives of the people. And then I hope, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, that we can re-plan that session. Otherwise, it is easy to organise a ceremony of indignation here and to allow them to fight only for more social justice and for job opportunities for their employees when there are fewer cameras and less attention is paid to them. We may not be able to record that second appointment in the agenda yet, but I am counting on you to indicate that. In any case, you have to come back here further in the process, and that also applies to Mr Vandenberghe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u63	Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers. If I sum up your remarks today: you have no other choice because no one could have foreseen this digitization two years earlier. I sum up your remarks, that's about what you just said. Let me tell you that I absolutely disagree with you. Indeed, it is clear that the banking system must evolve, just as much as the digital shift must succeed. But this cannot explain the day-to-day abolition of so many workers, 40% of the staff, while for two years the profits have been repatriated to the Netherlands. If this announcement of layoffs cannot be explained, it is clear that there has clearly been no anticipation or constructive work with staff to try to find out how decisions could be made to avoid such a waste. Personally, I find it incomprehensible to arrive at such an earthquake without mentioning digitalisation within the company or having sought alternatives with the staff to make it evolve. There is a whole series of questions about the conditionality of tax aid, individual training, the future of the banking sector and, more broadly, the digital evolution of our economy which we cannot undergo but which we will have to anticipate in order not to find ourselves in impossible situations. On the other hand, negotiations with all staff will begin. This is a major issue. Today, we are discussing. But what matters to me is to recall the personal situation of all those people who are potentially affected. They don't yet know who will be fired. This worry, this sword of Damocles that they all have above their heads is extremely difficult to live. Gentlemen of management, you have said on several occasions that you will assume your responsibilities. That's good to say, but now we have to take action. Indeed, these are actions that all staff are waiting for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u64	Mr President, earlier I concluded my speech by saying that if the ING plan were to pass, 3 158 jobs would be eliminated and that things would follow in the other banks that would refer to ING to do so. Mr Vandenberghe has, moreover, confirmed my fears by quoting the Dutch minister who said that we should get used to this kind of thing. No, I don't think we can get used to that kind of thing. This must be fought now, before the other banks follow this example. Mr Vandenberghe, you said you had to have courage. Excuse me for telling you that the formula is unfortunate. Indeed, you show courage with the jobs of others. It's easy to have courage when you're not directly concerned with yourself and you're acting as a mercenary. It may not be you who made the decisions, but it is you who will apply them in Belgium. It is easy to have courage with the employment of workers. In my view, that is not the definition of courage. The problem is that having a bank that makes profits is not enough for you, is not enough for management, is not enough for shareholders. You must have a 10% return, a return that is close to that of economic growth. Normal growth is not enough for you. It is this thirst for profit that banks have become accustomed to for years that poses a problem. We know they've had incredible returns at some time. And obviously, you have to maintain these yields. But this is not socially responsible. It is even suicidal socially; we see it today. You tell us that ING Belgium is among the most tax-paying companies in Belgium. Excuse me, but you may be paying, in absolute terms, a certain amount of tax. But it's mainly because you make huge profits: a billion a year, excuse me for a little bit. But in relative terms, 12% taxes don't seem astronomical to me when you know that the tax rate is 34%. And then, we come to all these social and tax gifts that are granted in the name of employment; moreover, it is a former leader of ING Belgium who is considered to be one of the fathers of notional interests. But all these gifts given in the name of employment, where are their effects today? 3,158 less jobs, is that the virtue of notional interests? Is that the virtue of professional discount exemptions? Is that the virtue of social security reductions? I don't see. And so I think that we will not be able to ignore this debate, especially when it comes to the employment stimulus measures that the Prime Minister is going to talk about on Tuesday, and the reform of ISOC. I'm finishing with digitalization. There is obviously a reality, which you exaggerate, I think, but there is a reality. And indeed, we need to think about the bank of the twenty-first century. But the thought is to know: do productivity gains due to digitalisation have to go to shareholders or should it go, in particular, to safeguarding employment and also to another way of working? Because we know that the burnout epidemic affects a large number of sectors and that the banking sector is not spared by this epidemic. So on the one hand, there are people who kill at work and on the other hand, there are 3,158 jobs that we want to eliminate. This is a contradiction that will have to be resolved, and this can only be done by sharing work and wealth and by not redistributing productivity gains to shareholders. The decision centre is in the Netherlands and I wonder if we should not withdraw the title of Baron to Albert Brother because it was he who sold the BBL to ING. There are two problems: the decision-making centres are in the hands of the foreigner and they are in the hands of private shareholders who do anything. I remember that for 130 years, the CGER operated smoothly as a public bank and without having to take this kind of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u65	Firstly, I regret, Mr Vandenberghe, your hyper-prudence, your lack of transparency and the lack of answers to many questions. Secondly, you have repeated that you are going to assume your responsibility, in particular by not resorting to pre-pension. In my view, it would be unacceptable for your pseudo-generation to take place at the expense of worker protection. Thirdly, I wish to conclude by supporting the workers' representatives for their courageous attitude in these negotiations, which are expected to be difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u66	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone who has come here to testify. First of all, the people of the trade unions who have defended their cause in a dignified manner and for whom, of course, it is just beginning. That's obvious. That message has arrived. I also thank the board. Thank you, Mr Vandenberghe, for coming. I understand that you have not been able to answer all the questions because of the limits imposed by the Renault Act. That's obvious. I hope, on behalf of many fellow Members, that I do not know whether I am speaking for all my fellow Members, Mr President-in-Office, that you will accept the outstretched hand of the trade unions in order to reduce the number of naked layoffs and that you will do so. Hopefully you will be able to bring better news than what we have heard on Monday morning. I have heard a constructive attitude among the people of the trade unions, despite, and you must be aware of, the difficult conditions in which they have to work. Let us try to make the best of it, even though the circumstances are extremely difficult. Everyone knows that. Colleagues, I propose to take a little break now. Sandwiches are planned. We propose, a break of twenty minutes. That leaves time for Minister Peeters to come here. After that, we will begin the second part of our agenda, the exchange of views with the government. If the board members and members of the trade unions want to remain present to follow the debate, this can of course be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a brief introduction. After that, I would be happy to give more text and explanation on all questions. I am here not only in my capacity as Minister of Work but also in my capacity as Minister of Consumer Affairs and, of course, Economics. To frame the dossier-ING, I note that we have regular contact with Febelfin, the organisation of the banking sector. We intensified contacts a while ago, to put it nicely, following a number of banks' initiatives to increase some costs. At Fortis this was about the file costs and AXA revised the interest rate for the Crest20 products. In this context, i.e. through contacts with both banks and with Febelfin, it was clear that the banks were faced with a combined situation, i.e. digitisation of Internet banking, the problem of low interest rates, as well as other elements. Perhaps we will come back to the banking tax in this context, where my point is that it cannot be used as an argument to fire 3 150 people, for example at ING, in the long term. In this context, we have had contacts both with different banks and with Febelfin. At the time, I asked the banking sector to have a more detailed exchange of views, so that I would not have to intervene in my capacity as Minister for Consumer Affairs in particular whenever a number of charges or amounts would be raised for consumers. As from December 2016, thanks to Parliament and the Committee on Business, I will have the opportunity, for example, to impose a ceiling by Royal Decree on file costs and to draw up clear rules on this matter. We have, of course, been in contact with the CEO during ING's announcement, who, after the special works council, informed the Prime Minister but also a number of other people and myself of the intention announced during the special works council. This intention, which has been extensively addressed here, is to drain 3 150 people, of which 1 700 are fired naked and over a period up to 2021. It was said that the consultations would start now. I asked the CEO a number of questions during the first contact, for example whether the number of naked layoffs could not be reduced further in consultation. I have also asked questions about the decision to fire a number of people in the Netherlands, in particular why that number is lower than in Belgium. Why do they want to drain a lower number of people in the Netherlands than in Belgium? I also asked how further negotiations would be held with the social partners with the works council. At that time, because Mr Rik Vandenberghe is also President of Febelfin, I specifically asked the question about the proposal that I had discussed with Febelfin a few weeks before, about a reorientation fund for workers. For me, it is important for the banking sector in general, and thus ING, to assume responsibility for the digitisation they are facing and so that those who are now active in this sector can no longer be active or used in a cost-effective manner. My question was whether any progress had been made on my proposal to set up a reorientation fund. He said at that time that they were working on it at Febelfin, that they would continue to work on it and that he would continue to inform me. One final fact I would like to mention is that I also had contact with Louis Asscher, the competent minister in the Netherlands, to hear from him how the Dutch government is handling the announcement and how it stands with regard to ING's decision. I also discussed with Lodewijk Asscher the proposal to set up a reorientation fund. The first question is whether there is such a thing in the Netherlands, and, if it does not exist, how one deals with internet banking, digitisation and low interest rates. Together with the Prime Minister and colleague Johan Van Overtveldt, I also had contact with the trade unions of ING. You have just heard the representatives of the trade unions and they are still present to discuss a possible approach. The representatives of the trade unions have provided some very interesting explanations in the sense that negotiations should now be negotiated and that negotiations should be handled pragmatically. A task force will be set up and my services, including the FOD WASO, will be fully available to assist the employees of the works council and the trade unions if they need legal or other advice. In the first phase and in implementation of the Renault Act, a level playing field must be provided between the employees' representatives and the management. Some specific elements were also discussed, but I assume that they were discussed extensively during this morning. It is also important that I have proposed an amendment to the Renault Act. I sent a letter to the Group of Ten, which I will deliver to you. The letter is public, of course. I have made five suggestions and asked about the intentions and reactions of the Group of Ten. If necessary, we will be able to discuss this in greater depth. Firstly, management should be prepared to give Parliament, if it has that question, text and explanation after the special works council. ING did, but there was a problem with Caterpillar. Secondly, subcontractors must also be included in the impact study to be made. By the way, I had the independent bank agents with me yesterday. They're worried sick. That is a specific point, Mr Klaps and others know it very closely. If we amend the Renault Act, we should certainly not forget the subcontractors, in this case the independent agents. Thirdly, people who find work faster elsewhere should also be able to benefit from the social plan being drawn up. In short, I have made a number of suggestions. The list is not exhaustive and can initially be supplemented by the Group of Ten, but also by Parliament and the committee. Finally, we are not only faced with digitalisation in the banking sector. There are other sectors, just think of the insurance sector. We have not anticipated this, but we have tried with the necessary knowledge to map it out. I would like to refer Members to the latest report by the High Council for Employment, which explicitly includes a passage on the impact of digitalisation on employment. It appears that it would be very unwise to stop that process; the train has left and there is only one possibility: to jump on the train and go along with it. Digitisation can create additional jobs, even though a number of jobs may first disappear in certain sectors. If we provide the right dynamics and support, digitalisation will not have a negative, but a positive impact. I do speak in terms of macro- and not in terms of micro-economics. Of course, those who are made redundant by digitalisation do not have a message that jobs are being created in the macro-economic field. That is why we need to look at how we are going about this with a view to creating a reorientation fund. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately faced with restructuring in the banking sector, possibly also in the insurance sector. In the context of the Renault Act, we are following this very closely. We would also like to amend the Renault Act, taking into account the sighs expressed in committee. We will also consult with the banking sector on a refocusing fund. We are counting on the banks, which have had a difficult period and which have been saved by the efforts of all of us, to shoulder their responsibilities during this transition period and to reach concrete agreements together with the social partners, regardless of the ING case, which should and will receive specific attention from the federal government. So much for my little explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u68	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed with a new approach, as we did this morning. I would also like to thank my colleague for that. At three o'clock time, everyone could say their thing. However, there were two committees and many speakers. We will try to do that again. The wit is often related to the brevity. So I propose another ten minutes per group, Mr President? Of course, it doesn't have to be ten minutes. After that, the Minister will have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u69	Ten minutes is ample, Mr President, after all, we have been engaged in the debate for some time. Minister, we must make a clear distinction in this matter between short-term problems and long-term problems. The short-term problem concerns all those individual workers who have received bad news. We must try to provide them with the best possible solution, if possible within ING. We absolutely must strive for maximum job retention. I heard some good signals from the unions about this this morning. That conversation must be made internally as soon as possible. I am pleased that you are paying due attention to the self-employed network, where the problem is even greater. The self-employed not only lose their jobs themselves, but still employ people, who in turn will have to be dismissed. They have also made investments in their offices. In that context, I would like to hear from you, as I have already read about it in the press, but I would certainly like to ask you again here whether you do not think it is appropriate to delete the exception for the financial sector in the pre-contractual disclosure law, so that people are not first pushed into self-employed status and are in trouble a few years later because the bank is changing strategy in terms of infrastructure, product range or general commercial policy. They are faced with strategies that they cannot influence as self-employed but which they are getting the full brunt of. More in the long term, I think we should look at all the sectors where digitisation has such a heavy impact. Today we are talking about the banking sector. With a total increase in the number of jobs, I believe that there should be a solution for most people right now; if it is not internal, then external. I have heard this week the example of Douwe Egberts, where a large number of people have been fired who have already received a lot of job offers. I have read reports in the press about Argenta, which says that they can apply because they are still looking for people. I believe that there is scope for this slimming down, but the trend in the sector is fundamentally declining. There are other sectors. I believe that we will all have to look together at how we deal with this digitisation, a real vision of the impact of digitalisation on our economy and our employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u70	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the letter addressed to the Group of Ten which contains your proposals. I regret that the Minister of Finance is not present because, in 2014, after taking office, he said: "The banking sector is ragaillardi. Banks have put their affairs in order, eased their balance sheet, reduced risks and increased their reserves. Profitability has resumed colors, the profits are there and make the happiness of the mother houses." We see it here because the bank has distributed more than seven billion euros of dividends to its parent company! I wonder if you are not taking the statements made by this bank too quickly, or even by Febelfin, of whom Mr Vandenberghe, CEO of ING, is president, saying that they have serious problems with digitalisation. Therefore, digitalisation endangers their profitability and profits, even though Mr Vandenberghe told us that they were paying taxes but at a rate of 12%. I wonder if you don't take cash, depending on what is explained, that for the benefit of shareholders, you have to get rid of workers. If we keep workers, we have fewer dividends, so we choose good dividends and sacrifice workers! This policy is masked under a varnish called digitalization. We should not be told that this situation is a surprise. As I said in 1978, Alain Minc informed Mr Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, President of the French Republic until 1981, of the risks of the arrival of computerisation in the banking sector, and that this was the next steel crisis, given the potential for systemic risk. How can we accept this speech without trying to verify that bank deposits at ING reach huge amounts, of more than EUR 100 billion and that the return on capital reaches 10%? I understand you have regular contact with Febelfin. I can understand that you are being told about the problems of digitalisation and interest rates. Banks benefited from lower interest rates. They took advantage of it, like everyone else. The banks benefit from refinancing through the European Central Bank. All your studies, and you often repeat, not as Minister of Employment, but as Minister of Economy, say that banks need to inject into the real economy, while they benefit from attractive rates at ECB level. Who's taking advantage of it? I'm sorry, it's not us, it's not you, and it's certainly not ING workers. It's the shareholders. At some point, the right questions should be asked, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. It's a shame that Mr. Van Overtveldt is not here to answer that, since he is the one who has supervision over banking bodies. When it comes to asserting this, it means that banks in Belgium are doing well, that they have good balance sheet feet, that they distribute a great deal of dividends to shareholders. So, you'll excuse me, but digitalization has a good back on it! In this regard, I would like you to share with me the government's thoughts, since you are the spokesman for them; I think it is very important for the workers, who are being made to believe that tomorrow they will be replaced by a computer. I can understand, however, that you see digitalisation on a macro level, that it is an opportunity, that nothing can be done about this macro plan, and that on the micro level, if jobs go to the trap, we create others. If I understand you correctly, "we don't make omelettes without breaking eggs," according to the well-known expression. Earlier, you should have been there to hear the workers' organisations, which are very constructive. I assume they told you at the meeting you had with the Prime Minister and the organizations. It is that we are dealing here with people who are qualified, who can reorient themselves, who can form themselves. So when you have the announcement of ING's intentions, and contact with the CEO, don't you think that's the first thing you need to ask him? All right, 1,700 dry layoffs, and 3,000 people who are put on the door, but is it not possible within the company, even if it reduces the number of agencies, to go more towards advice, targeted advice? I even heard: "to go, not to leave anyone at the side of the road, to the pensioners, or even to the beneficiaries of RIS, who are in great difficulty, to give them targeted advice." We'll need these people who are trained. Was it really necessary to go through a dry lay-off of 1,700 people, whereas within the company one could have had a real training plan, a real reorientation and accompaniment plan for some people? Compared to your comments in the context of your contact with the CEO, apart from those you have with Febelfin – as this gentleman changes his hat – you say you have asked a number of questions about the number of dismissals in the Netherlands. He came to tell us that in the Netherlands dismissals were more important than in Belgium! Did he give you the same speech? This question is important. He told us that in the Netherlands they were losing half of their workforce and that in Belgium it was less serious because there were less than 50% job losses. We're at 45 or 46 per cent: it's true that it's not 50 per cent! I would like to know the exact content of what he has said to you in this regard. The workers' reorientation fund is probably an opportunity. I hope that during the negotiations under the Renault law and during your support with the task force you have set up, there will be a reduction in the number of redundancies. I think it would be a first stone to put to the responsibilities you call, not just from ING. This concerns the whole of the employers' world when it comes to redundancies: to provide funds for the reorientation of workers. I hope that the letter to the Group of Ten is a positive first sign in this direction. Why? Because you say that banks (and it's the same for Caterpillar, in industrial employment, in the employment of services, it's the same thing) must assume their responsibilities. If the banks, which in 2008 had systemic risks, still exist (ING, KBC, Belfius; in Belgium, unfortunately, many banks present systemic risks), it is because they have been saved by the entire population. Today it is the population that will pay, it is all of us. I come back to the one statement by the CEO of ING regarding the assumption of their responsibilities: they will not play with pre-pensions! Do you consider this sufficient as a political leader, as a representative of the government? Does the latter consider that it is sufficient or does he feel that it is necessary to go beyond and to set up, in particular – this would, in my view, be a first positive element – this workers' reorientation fund and have a real training plan, not outside the company, but within the company itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u71	Mr. Chair, Minister, you have clearly identified the problem of digitalization. It is true that it will be increasingly present in our economy and in our markets. However, I would like to bring a nuance about ING. These 3,500 jobs are certainly not lost. The abolition of these jobs is not solely due to digitalisation. Other sectors will certainly be transferred to other countries. There'll be outsourcing. It would, in my view, be interesting if we could go further to define all this better. We are certainly at a turning point in our economy today. We are moving towards a fourth industrial revolution. And, as you said, initially, jobs will certainly be lost. However, it is essential that this new economic model, which will require a great deal of capital, investment in research and development and industrial equipment, can be incorporated. All of this is going to be very expensive. But this will create new jobs in the future. So I come to the reorientation fund for banks, for training. Can you give us more details on the amount to be allocated and how this will be organized? How will this money come into this fund? In a preventive way, should we not also take into account other professions where digitalisation will create problems in the near future? We quoted the insurances. I'm not going to talk about our administration. Nevertheless, it is certain that many sectors will be confronted with this digitalisation. Finally, you said that you had met your Dutch colleagues. Can you give us more information on the position of the Dutch Government on what is happening at ING. Indeed, as Mr Massin said, Mr Vandenberghe spoke of 50% of the workforce. However, I think I know that in Holland, 2,800 departures are planned. Does this mean that ING has a smaller market share and has fewer staff at our Batavian neighbours? This would still be surprising in that it is a priori a Dutch bank and the population is larger. Or is this a first step towards rationalising the sector in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u72	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your explanation and for your introduction to this exchange of views. We have heard a great deal from the partners this morning, especially on the employees' side, and we had a useful debate yesterday in plenary on the consequences and possible actions of the restructuring at ING. In this plenary session, I already asked the Prime Minister a number of questions about the refocusing fund, about the importance of focusing on this reorientation and about the importance of drawing up a future vision for the financial sector over the coming months and years. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to reiterate today that it is absolutely essential that you monitor the social dialogue over the coming months, which has only just begun in function of the Renault Act. Much remains to be done and we are curious to see what additional can be retained for the purposes of the employment at ING. I believe that it is also useful and necessary to ensure maximum deployment on outplacement and to refocus staff as much as possible on new jobs in the sector, but also on other sectors. It is a task of the government to ensure that people in the financial sector are properly redirected. You referred just now to the consultations you had and to the call you made to set up a reorientation fund. What action has been taken so far? What timing do we foresee there? What are the messages you receive from the sector itself? Or haven't there been any messages? What reactions and sounds do you hear there? A number of fellow Members have already mentioned the need for a vision of the future for the entire financial sector. Digitisation is likely to take a considerable toll, not only in the financial sector but also in many other sectors. It is now more than ever necessary for the government, including the government and Parliament, to develop a vision of it and work together with the sector and the social partners on a future plan in function of digitisation and the jobs and sectors of the future. As far as the financial sector in particular is concerned, from a few months ago, I suspect that even last year it was a discussion in the Finance Committee, where the high-level expert group was invited to reflect with the Finance Minister on the future position of the financial sector in our country and how we could possibly strengthen it. I think that note today is more relevant than ever. We discussed them at that time without being too aware of what was ahead of us in the financial sector. We certainly need to get that note back up in order to follow up on all the recommendations that have already been made at that time from that high-level expert group on the financial sector. We need to use it to develop this vision of the future. It is important, especially if we also have other issues such as the Brexit on the agenda today, that we also consider how the financial sector in our country, especially Brussels, can be further strengthened as a capital for the financial sector. Today, the word "reinforce" is even more relevant. We also need to think about those jobs of the future, not only in the financial sector but also outside. We must not miss the boat of digitalisation. We must also dare to think about proactively dealing with a number of opportunities and opportunities, and perhaps not too often stick to a number of rules and frameworks that we currently know or have known in recent decades about work. It may pro-actively require a good thinking exercise to deal with these new demands about work and future jobs in a forward-looking way. In addition to following up and helping to ensure the maximum retention and refocus of jobs, I expect that role to be used on these new jobs, a new framework and a new impetus for the financial sector and for the challenges after digitalisation. I believe that we will have to come back to these challenges a number of times here. Different axes and working tools will be required. We are happy to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u73	Mr President, Minister, to be honest, I think that we have seen each other far too often lately in a consultation in which many workers have been given notice of their resignation or of their chances of being fired from a company that is making a lot of profit. I hope it stops, because the answers are almost predictable. Every time we get fired, we hear pretty much the same thing. I would much prefer that concrete action be taken immediately. I do not want to have another four rounds of discussions before we have concrete alternatives on the table. Allow me to start by saying that people don't understand. Nor should people be at the service of the economy. The economy must be at the service of the people. Minister, you yourself referred to the report of the High Council for Employment. I have read in that report what is mentioned about digitisation. It is true that we cannot avoid digitisation, but there is still an important point that you must take into account. It says that we must come up with a model in which not as many workers as possible are replaced by machines, but rather a model in which automation and digitisation are at the service of the workers and increase their productivity. However, we do not see that today. The employees prepare the digitisation and in response they get their C4. So the system isn't right, it's not right. It is high time to take measures to adapt it. I am pleased that you have sent a letter to the Group of Ten to amend the Renault Act on some points. We have already submitted this for discussion in various consultations. The adjustments you are asking for are to a large extent justified. I do, however, miss the fact that we really have to stop us from getting into the Renault Act. All the adjustments you are asking for are actually adjustments for when it is too late, when an announcement of intention to close has already been made. It is, of course, a good thing to provide maximum support at that stage. When discussing Caterpillar, I also said that we should not underestimate the first phase and that we should not accept it. I hear yesterday and today my fellow Members say that digitisation is a fact in which we have to accept it. Some colleagues prefer a smaller bank with a smaller number of employees than no bank. I would much rather we protect our employees from digitalisation. The workers are doing their utmost, but what protection do they have? How can we ensure that digitisation does not replace our employees? How do we ensure that digitisation becomes an asset for our employees? What measures are you going to take in concrete terms? This is not only the case in the banking sector, but in all sectors there is a danger to workers. How do you see protection for our employees there? How do you see it in concrete terms, so that we can adapt it in the short term? You are talking about a reorientation fund. Can you tell me more about that? How do you see that? Does ING have to contribute? On what time do you see that? How do you see that in concrete terms? So I would have liked to have more explanation. We heard the unions this morning who also strongly advocated saving jobs. They're not just gonna accept it. They want to do their utmost to minimise the number of redundancies. Will the government appoint an expert to help them? In what way does the government intend to support the trade unions in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u74	Mr President, like other colleagues, I will regret that the Prime Minister and, above all, the Minister of Finance are not here because we have, for the moment, a real problem in the banking sector, in the insurance sector. Denying it, refusing to see it, it's really a problem. You are here as Minister of Employment, that is to say, you do not react until after the problems have arisen. I think we need to be able to do prevention in everything. I find the reaction to be soft, late and incomplete. Why is she soft? Even Mr. Ducrame, earlier, asked ING's boss what planet he lived on. Nice flight! Really, it was raised by the media and rightly. I think that, in situations like this, you have to be able to punch on the table and express to employers that it is not right, that they also have societal responsibilities. They receive numerous and costly aid from the federal state, and they must also be able to assume their responsibilities. What you are announcing in terms of the evolution of the Renault law is interesting. We can fully support it, but that does not seem sufficient because we are systematically acting too late. The representative of the LBC earlier had an absolutely essential statement, it seems to me, in the debate: "Gift Maak's niet gratis". When there is public support, employers must demand compensation. Why? Because today we are witnessing redundancies in stock exchanges, i.e. redundancies by companies that make significant profits: 7 billion dividends at ING in ten years. As was the case with Caterpillar, we also see that, regardless of the economic situation, dividends are guaranteed. And then the adjustment variable is the workers. We also see, and this is also the case at ING, the development of offshoring practices - relocation of the services or production activities of certain companies to low-wage countries. Doing this and maintaining the benefit of public aid is not right! Mechanisms for conditionality of aid must be invented. It must be said: "If you were to lay off, while you are making profits, you have to repay public aid in the broad sense, including notional interest, social contribution reduction aid that you have received." Thus, when the question of collective dismissal arises, the cost of such reimbursement is placed in the balance. It can also be said to companies that distribute dividends that are too large in relation to their profits: "You no longer have access to public aid, you no longer need it." Be imaginative, punch your fist on the table! Show that, for the government, beyond words, it is not acceptable for companies making significant profits to be able to lay off. I really have no difficulty in helping companies create jobs and activities at home, Mr Van Quickenborne. But it can't be free. This must be conditioned. This is not enough, neither on notional interests, nor on other things. The solutions that are on the table are incomplete. A dossier on which I think you need to work with the workers' representatives, these are the possibilities, to save as many jobs as possible, if we can't change ING's opinion, to share working time within the company, specific formulas to keep as many jobs as possible. Last element, which is more of a foresight element. We're talking a lot about digitalization, automation. It's a real economic phenomenon. Today we are faced with a social security system that operates on the basis of workers' contributions, based on wages. If, tomorrow, workers are replaced by machines, other types of contributions will have to be imagined in order to maintain a functioning social security system. Here, it's foresight at five or ten years, but since you're launching different working groups and different test balloons, I think we need to start thinking about it. If workers are replaced by machines, we will have to find a way of financing our social security which remains as efficient as it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for being here. That shows a logical dose of involvement. I regret that other fellow Members who are also directly involved in the dossier do not show their involvement. I would like to mention three more elements. First of all, what has remained with me this morning is an incredible willingness, in the past and also now, of workers and trade unions to work on alternatives. They feel caught because they have not been given the opportunity to do so. Several groups have invited ING's management to continue to stand up for these alternatives and to keep the number of jobs that will disappear in the coming months to an absolute minimum. You and the government have a role to play in this. I would like to question you on that. You will understand that Parliament's support, as well as the support of the government and the Minister for Labour, can make a huge difference when knocking on that door for the workers in question. I hope and think that you are joining in today's dynamics to minimise job losses, but also to actively explore the alternatives. Mrs Kitir's suggestion to support the substance of the matter is a valuable suggestion. Secondly, in the meantime, it is a bit of a stick horse from our group, but a lot of investment is rightly being made in providing oxygen to our companies, for example through reduction of wages, training aid, innovation aid and tax reductions. If there is something for me that needs to change after the September month of 2016 and after Caterpillar and ING, it is the non-binding nature of such support mechanisms. It is really time for some reciprocity in this area. Are you open to a legal framework in which forms of public aid are recovered in the event of the closure of profitable companies? Thirdly, although profits are still being made and dividends are being distributed, everyone realizes that the banking world is in full swing. Often that is also a very positive story. I have said before that no one is looking forward to the time when paper transfers have yet to be made. My generation doesn't know that anymore. Such evolutions are not stopped. Some reflection on the financial sector is important, but this digitisation is much wider I feel that we are going through too much of this technological change and are not shaping enough of ourselves. The benefits and revenues of this technological change are also distributed unevenly. Mr Van Quickenborne has just made the suggestion to start a broader parliamentary reflection on digitisation and robotisation. I believe this could be a valuable suggestion. In any case, I think it is important to pay more attention to this. However, this does not have to be a separate story for me. This week, I questioned the Prime Minister in depth about the methodology and the theme features of the National Investment Plan. The digital agenda is part of that. Instead of just looking at the investment door, I think it would also be logical to consider possible social consequences. The axis is defined. I don't like inflation on talk barracks. There may be synergy in this area. In any case, I believe that global reflection is important to embrace this technological change and to seize the many economic benefits. At the same time, we must not ignore the downside of this progress. I do feel that we have put our heads in the sand in this area for a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u76	Mr President, the lack of anticipation in this matter is particularly striking. I have the unpleasant feeling that, at ING, we seem to discover digitalization as if it had arisen today, in order to justify that more than 3,000 workers are potentially put on the harness. Out of a total of 8,000 employees, it's not bitten by worms! No attempt was made to work upstream with staff to mitigate the damage. It's a matter of concern. Minister, you have spoken in the press on several occasions saying that you have predicted what has happened. It's very good, but it's still a shame that we didn't measure things up before. It is true that the banking sector faces different challenges. But you didn't try to see with the interested parties what it was possible to do. Since you have seen the management and we have had few answers this morning, I would like to ask you two questions. First, she tells us: 1,700 dry layoffs. It's an announcement. Of course we have to fight. Out of 3,158, there will be 1,500 natural departures. What is it? Not all natural departures will be made at the pension age. At the same time, we are told that the pre-pension mechanism will not be used. Does that mean that it will be in relation to the royal decrees that must be taken for the companies undergoing restructuring? Or will they not appeal at all to this mechanism? Or will they use it by not necessarily leaving the choice to those who have no other option? I wish you could give us some information, because I imagine you discussed it with them. The other point I wanted to ask you about is the independents. There too, we did not get an answer – not a word. Are they concerned? Are they in addition to 3,158? On the other hand, in substance, has management not preferred to announce redundancies of employees in-house rather than to affect the self-employed? So many questions you have, I imagine, addressed with management. Mr Minister, I would like to make a few points with you in relation to the measures you are putting on the table. I thank you for sending us a copy of the letter to the social partners. The first element is the sectoral reorientation fund. What is it going to do? I think it would be totally unacceptable if this sector fund, including those financed by the others, could make it easier for ING to do so. In the context that we know, after having repatriated to the Netherlands such profits – one billion a year over the last three years; we do not yet know the profit and dividend in 2016 – it would be unacceptable to ING to allow and guarantee the professional future of workers who would be dismissed tomorrow, and not to a sector banking fund that would be fed by I don't know who. Second element: the adaptations of your Renault law. There are interesting things, others for which the questions are multiple. Asking for companies to come to parliament: legal studies have shown that there is no contraindication to do so. In fact, by changing the law, you're justifying Caterpillar's attitude somewhere. It's like Caterpillar was right not to come. I confess that I don't really see any added value in relation to your text, but it doesn't matter. The third element is the obligation to develop a social plan. That's a good idea. That being said, let us recognize that this is the case in the vast majority of cases. Fourth element: temporary and temporary workers. The question, of course, is who will pay? I'm reading what you said. Since the acting company is the legal employer. In this case, in relation to your track, is it the legal employer, and therefore the acting employer, who will pay, or is it the third-party user? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u77	Excuse me, but let's call a cat a cat! The question is whether you include temporary workers and temporary workers in the application of the social plan. Since you're putting the lead on the table, I'd like to know who's going to pay. Fifth element: the Social Ombudsman. I have already asked you several times about this dossier, and about this more rapid and systematic provision. I think that's a good idea. And finally, for the independent banking agents, in addition to the questions I asked you about ING, in fact, the idea is not bad, but my point is: Shouldn't there be an autonomous law? They are not wage earners. You incorporate them into the Renault law; I don't see the meaning of it. These are not redundancies since they are not salaried workers. Therefore, should there not be an autonomous law providing for financial compensation? There's probably a lead to dig, but I think there's a lot of questions left. In relation to the Renault law, there is a question that we never put on the table, which we never dare to address, whether, in the first phase of information, this work can be done with open-ended trade union organisations. Today, the answer is no. It is necessary to have an open-book information phase; it is then a lever that actually allows us to work together, bosses and unions, to bring about alternative paths and to save the jobs that can be. If we don't do it with open books, it seems to me difficult to develop alternatives. Mr President, I should like to conclude by submitting three proposals on which I would like to be able to expand at a later stage. Firstly, the issue of digitalisation, and not just in the banking sector. There is a major digital shift in the economy. Our economy must not undergo this digital shift, but must adapt and take full responsibility for it. Secondly, in terms of corporate accountability for collective redundancies, things have to be done. I'll come back in good time. Thirdly, training. When the government decided to suspend 1.9% of the payroll to invest in worker training, we came with alternative proposals. The individual training plan for workers is certainly an interesting idea; we have discussed it with the trade union organisations. We propose to have a training account that should be used throughout the career. Continuing education is also a major factor in the digital shift in our economy. That is how positive progress can be made tomorrow not only to create employment but also to protect and maintain jobs because, for the moment, there is a social earthquake. Mr. Minister of Employment, your responsibility with regard to the negotiations that are opening on Monday is to be in support and in connection with the trade union organisations. Every job that can be saved must be saved!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u78	Minister, I believe that at this stage, although you can present us with plans for the future that contain little action, we need to know whether the government is willing to take action to counter ING's plans. Do you find ING's attitude normal? Should the government leave the bridle on this bank's neck? Should the government not do everything in its power, including by threatening ING to reverse their decisions? There is a difference between this file and Caterpillar's. The production of this company leaves almost completely Belgium while ING remains at home and our country represents a large milk cow, a quarter of its global profit coming from Belgium. ING needs Belgium and this is a weapon in the hands of the political world to put pressure on the bank. I would like to hear from you in this regard. Have you ever accepted ING's plan? Do you intend to make it fit? Is the government determined to make every effort to prevent the implementation of this plan? Members of the Finance Committee had the opportunity to visit Febelfin where we met with Mr Vandenberghe, who, as the Finance Minister said today, said that the financial sector had too little profitability. In fact, I told him that at one time, the return was 15%, and he told me that it was much more. This rate is only 10% for the last year. Do you find this rate too low or too high in terms of profitability? In my opinion, this percentage is not very low! At the global group level, they are not so much lower. I can say otherwise: a profitability per employee of EUR 128 000. Each ING agent pays EUR 128 000 before any job losses occur! Imagine the profitability per employee after the job losses they have planned. We'll be close to double! We'll get close to 200,000 euros per employee. That's almost your salary, minister! Brut! This question deserves to be asked, Minister. Is it normal for a company that distributes 7.2 billion dividends to eliminate more than 3,000 jobs? The issue we will probably discuss with the Prime Minister on Tuesday or Wednesday is employment policy. Does the ING file not demonstrate the bankruptcy of these gifts to companies made in the name of employment? I will not mention again all the figures of corporate tax deductions, reductions in social contributions, exemptions from professional discount and which ING took advantage of... All this for what result on employment? That is a legitimate question. The worst thing is that in order to finance all these gifts to the private sector, the government is cutting thousands of public jobs, on the pretext that public jobs would not be good jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u79	President: (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u80	Yes, that's the speech! Public jobs are not good jobs. Private jobs are good jobs. The government is cutting public employment to promote private employment! As a result, private employment eliminates 3,000 jobs! This logic will have to be explained to me, minister, because it is incomprehensible. Finally, digitalisation raises the question, regardless of what is the level of its impact on the more than 3,000 jobs that have been abolished, to whom should the productivity gains created by digitalisation go? Because that's what digitalization is about: producing so much with fewer people. This is the principle of digitalisation in all sectors. Produce with fewer people, so make more profits with fewer workers. We're 128,000 euros today. If they applied their plan, it would be 200 000 euros per worker. Who should this increase in productivity go to? I ask the question: why is the government not considering a distribution of working time? From the moment that it is possible to produce more with fewer people, you can produce so much with so many people but who work less. It makes you sweat, Minister! Indeed, this raises both the question of sharing working time and the question of sharing wealth. Of course, I think that for workers, there is no question of reducing working time with loss of pay. This means that anything that goes – in the case of ING – to dividends could finance a sharing of working time. I think that, indeed, there is another conception of work behind it; and that it would also help to avoid this epidemic of burnouts that we are witnessing. You are Minister of Employment, but also Minister of Labour. So I assume that this epidemic of burnouts that currently exists also bothers you, even if your labour law may not fix it, because it is not the increased flexibility that will solve the problem of burnouts, but it is another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hees, for this brief speech. Minister, I have one more speaker on my list. The last but not the least, colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u82	Minister, I have three punctual questions for you and one general comment. Firstly, with regard to your initiative on the Renault Act, thank you for the copy of the letter. I am pleased that one of the ideas that we have launched by the majority, in particular that companies come to explain themselves in Parliament's committee, can no longer be stopped. The same applies to Mr Lachaert's proposal. I would also ask you to see to what extent the Renault Act sometimes causes delays. You presented your initiative to the social partners. So I suppose they'll make that remark, too. I have heard that, through the Renault Act and the detailed procedure laid down in it, companies are sometimes unable to inform their employees of their future quickly individually. However, there must be room for sufficient flexibility in the modified Renault Act, which you are pushing forward. Secondly, in relation to the banking tax, you have just explicitly said that it is not responsible for ING's decision. I have my questions about that. I did not receive an answer from Mr Vandenberghe. I have my questions and I will tell you why. Since the reformed banking tax also takes into account the branches and the turnover of the markets in our country, it has a major impact on ING in particular. You will have noticed that two out of three jobs are being removed from ING's markets. I have heard that in the Netherlands, at ING's head office, people are quite dismayed about the reform of the banking tax and that they would have contributed to the decision. I would therefore like to draw some attention to this. One might have something to do with the other for the jobs I just talked about. I would also like to make a comment about SWT, the bridge pension. You have heard that the CEO has expressly stated that he will not invoke it. How do you respond to that? What's your opinion on that? I have a fundamental observation to make. We have a choice. We can meet here every month and find that heavy reductions are taking place in certain companies and sectors, or we are trying to prepare for the future. That is the fundamental question we must ask. I believe that today we are all insufficiently aware of the economic change that digitalisation will bring to our lives and our work. We are not thinking about that. We read that in the newspaper and think it happens in other countries, but not with us. It'll happen. It's happening today, by the way. Look at the travel agencies. There has never been a committee meeting, but thousands of travel agencies have been closed in recent years, because there is such a thing as booking.com. You probably don't all use it. Anyway, travel agencies have disappeared, where there's probably no union. Fashion business bankruptcies are announced over and over again as a result of digitalisation. There is indeed the impact on the banking and insurance sector. That's what the Minister said. If tomorrow all vehicles will be able to drive unmanned, which is good for road safety, what will be the impact on the transport sector? What will be the effect of that on truck and taxi drivers? What will happen? Administrative services, translation services, secretariat, all these sectors are threatened by digitalisation today. Then there are two possible answers. Either we say we have to stop it, we have to fight it. There are those who answer that. If Uber can't drive in Brussels, it's because the political world is stopping it. There are those who want to stop that. Either we wonder how we can make the best of that in our country. How do we ensure that digitisation is an opportunity for our country? That is the ambition of the Minister and of this government. The report of the Supreme Court does say that there can be net jobs if you want to make the right choices. I do not want to create yet another special committee, but Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Calvo, repeated it to me in Parliament in February 2016, said that we need to create an instrument here where, across party boundaries, we are trying to assess the true impact and, at the same time, see how we can adapt our legal framework in order to achieve the maximum. That won't be an innocent discussion. I am aware of that. Digitalization continues 24 hours a day, 24 hours a day, Saturdays and Sundays. Minister, at the IMF and the World Bank, where I was present last week, I heard a call for a new social contract. Our social security is based on the principles of the previous economy, those of the 1960s and 1970s, which must be revised if we want to participate in the digital revolution. We have to take much more thorough and serious account of this, otherwise we will regret it every month and wonder what we can do about it. I would like to make one last point, Minister. I know I'm a saw in your eyes. We are talking about 3 150 jobs today. Because we still do not have a good framework for night work in the commercial sector, we export a multitude of these jobs abroad. If bol.com, Zalando, Coolblue are all active today, not in our country, but in the Netherlands, it is because we have still not managed to adapt that legal framework. That is not the Minister's fault, because the Minister has created a legal framework for this. But, Minister, you must admit that, after almost a year, no agreement has been reached in any shop, in any case in our country, to make that possible. That's almost guilty negligence, isn't it? Meanwhile, all these jobs run to the Netherlands. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u83	I am talking about the general framework. I also said three punctual things just now. We export thousands of jobs abroad. I hear a lot of anger about the Netherlands, but because of our mistake, all those jobs go there. We need to solve that problem. Minister, I would ask you once again to encourage the social partners to find a solution to this problem. If that solution is not to be found, we must propose this solution with Parliament. Finally, I would like to make one final comment. Mr Calvo has just said in the debate on ING that we should also have the political debate on where to go with the legislation. That's obvious. I would like to warn against many well-meaning initiatives. I have heard here, not from you, but from others, that we should, among other things, punish companies if they fire employees. I have heard the remark here that it should be ensured that it is almost impossible to fire workers. Some people's tone is that a ban on relocation should be introduced. We hear jobs go to India or the Philippines, but that's just the point. If we want jobs to be created in the world, we do so with an open economy, not under any conditions, of course, that is obvious, that must be framed. But if we are told that jobs should never move to another country, then we are building walls around our country. That is not an economy that will create jobs, quite the contrary. I am very concerned about that. Protectionism, the discourse that is being hung everywhere, threatens our economy and not least ours, because we live on our exports. The openness of our economy is just the strength of our economy. That is a point which I certainly wanted to make for the debate which will undoubtedly follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u84	Minister, we are looking forward to your reply, as Mr Vandenberghe has done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer all the questions. There is, of course, the wider debate about the debat concernant les grandes évolutions économiques.. and it is up to this committee to organize this. As President of the High Council for Employment, I am happy to give text and explanation on the whole aspect of digitisation and to animate the debate, if necessary. I believe that this initiative may pose some danger, in particular the wider framework. You know that the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, and also at European level with The Future of Work, will look at what the work will look like in ten or twenty years' time. What will the protection of workers be against it? What will the relationship between employer and employee look like? There are many interesting and important debates and developments that are coming towards us. I believe, Mr President, that it is important not to disappear into an ocean of elements, but rather to organise the debates very focused and results-oriented, so that something can be done with policy. We will be happy to take part in any initiative that the committee intends to organise. We shall give this debate some substance. We are active on many fronts. In Geneva, in the European Commission, but also here in Belgium, we are dealing with the work of the future. The FOD WASO devoted a number of study days to this. Digitisation is not just a problem in the banking sector; it goes beyond the banks. Moreover, there are other trends that are coming towards us. We do indeed have a very open economy. We are one of the first to have the consequences of global evolution. This has positive but also less positive aspects. I wanted to give that to you in general. I would like to participate without any difficulty and very much. Mr Klaps, you have rightly made a point about the short and long term. However, I would like to emphasise that in the short term, of course, many banks are thinking a little more broadly than ING...................................................................................................................................................................... In the short term, therefore, another debate is coming to our attention, not only on file costs, but also on free services and so on. This is also a very important issue for consumers. It's been agreed in the past. I am thinking, for example, of a certain number of free money withdrawals, where the banks, faced with a different profitability, which I will return to later, are taking initiatives to pass on certain costs to the consumer. In the short term, therefore, another debate is coming towards us, which we are also engaged in. If the issue reaches the press, therefore, you should not suggest that we are already chasing the facts. We're on the case. However, this is an issue which is inevitable for some banks. Your second element concerns the self-employed network, including ING. Yesterday we spoke to the representatives of the association of independent bank agents, specifically ING. Indeed, there are a lot of self-employed agents at ING, who have on average three employees, as indicated during that meeting. So they too have been struck. They specifically asked me to ensure that they too, and not only ING and ING's employees, are involved in the process. We have obtained that was also their question: very soon there will be a meeting with the ING summit and the self-employed network, where a lot of employees fear for their jobs. The third element you mention is the whole issue of pre-contractual information and the obligation to provide information. You know that there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which the independent bank agents have wronged, because my predecessors have not included the banking sector in the commercial agency. We'll look into that. As far as pre-contractual information is concerned, we have agreed on a code of conduct for the brewery sector, which also includes this problem. Either we will agree with the banking sector a code of conduct which includes this, or we will amend the law, which is also a possibility. Maybe we can get there with a code of conduct, because a change in the law will take some time. The debate will continue. One final point. I understand from you that there are, of course, many opportunities to deal with open vacancies. You referred to Douwe Egberts and others. That's right. Thank God there are also other opportunities for those who risk losing their jobs in the banking sector. However, I am very careful about that, because that is not obvious. It's not one-on-one, it's not like one loses one's job and can go straight to an open job. Should it be so simple, there wouldn't be so many vacant vacancies. Oh, thank God they're here, though. As far as Douwe Egberts is concerned, we also had a meeting with the CEO. Lately, I've been in the Law Renault all the time. Mr Massin, I have noted the statement made by my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt. That is my colleague's statement, of course. But to be clear, for me, we have to do everything we can to reduce the 1,700 dry layoffs. That's right! I understand Mr Rik Vandenberghe's words, namely the announced figure of 1,700 people who have been dismissed, but also the desire to consult with the trade unions, in order to examine the possibility of reducing this figure. We will look with the trade unions at how we can reduce the number of people who are endorsed there. Again, unfortunately, I have some experience with that law Renault. I remember very well Opel-GM Antwerp, where I did everything, together with the trade unions, to work out alternatives. That was when the factory was to be moved to Germany. We did everything we could with the people of the trade unions to develop alternatives. We have even brought in consultants and so on. There is a difference between the announcement of closure and a restructuring in a company that develops further activities. Fortunately this is the case with ING, they still have activities here, people will still be employed. It is primarily a task for the trade unions. For the record, I will do everything in my power to support the trade unions, if they so request, to be present at meetings, to do what can be done within the legal framework to reduce the number of naked redundancies. Since this is not a closure but a restructuring, in a company going concern, I am convinced that it is possible to reduce the number by proposing creative alternatives. It's not for me to do that. That is primarily to the people of the works council and the people who will negate it. However, I can only underline, and this has also been discussed with the Prime Minister, that as far as I am concerned, and with the limited experience, unfortunately, we will do everything we can to help reduce the number. Mr Massin, but also Mrs Fonck and other colleagues, I can assure you that I am doing everything I can to reduce the number of 1,700 redundancies. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, I asked Rik Vandenberghe: "Explain to me the difference between the amount in the Netherlands and the amount here in Belgium." I'm worried too. This has also been discussed in previous debates. Is it easier with our collective dismissal right to fire more people here than in the Netherlands? I asked that question because I am right to worry about it. If we are the country where people can be dismissed more quickly than in other countries, then I will and will continue to investigate it. The Prime Minister referred to the OECD at Caterpillar. We are further looking at what exactly that is. I do not want to anticipate that, but the procedure is perhaps easier in Belgium than in other countries because one has to go to court in other countries, but it may be more expensive. If you have enough money, it might be more interesting to do it here and not elsewhere. I am very sensitive to that debate. It would not be good if all the multinationals were to tell the story that it would be easier to sack people collectively in Belgium than in other countries. I specifically asked that question and I give you the answer I have been given. He said: "No, in the Netherlands they were forerunners. If you look at the period 2011-2021, you will see that there have been no fewer redundancies in the Netherlands than in Belgium. So you need to see that over a period from 2011 to 2021. In this situation, there is no significant difference between Belgium and the Netherlands. In short, this will be followed up further. That was the answer given to me. Mr Massin, you also asked questions about the reclassification fund...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u86	Reorientation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u87	Reorientation. Now I can be clear. It is an idea that we put on the table even before ING announced this collective dismissal. The idea was created by the fact that in other sectors, where there are social security funds, what is not the case for the banking sector, for which there is only a joint fund, the social partners have come to find me to reorient these funds towards additional training for the older workers, so that they can strengthen their talents to give them more opportunities to retain their job or find another job. In short, in certain sectors there is a lot of thinking about how to refocus these funds in that direction. With that question in mind, I also wanted to create something like this for the banking sector. The banking sector does not now have a fund for security of existence but it has a joint managed fund. He also has an academy where education is given. It is said that a lot of training is already being done in the banking sector. I understand that, in the banking sector, 2.7% of training is provided. This is a very high rate and higher than 1.9% in general. That's what I'm told. This training is aimed at the banking process itself. When people are told that they can no longer be active in the bank, the question arises as to what they are doing with the training to remain active in the banking sector if they have to leave the banking sector. Well, that's what we're working on now. I'm not naive, or overreacting, I hope. This has nothing to do with ING, by the way. Mrs. Fonck, you're right. ING is responsible for finding a solution with the unions. We can't say we're going to launch a solidarity fund and stop there. That is not the case at all. ING must take responsibility for what it has announced, and let us hope for less. It is primarily about people who are still working in the bank and who may have to look up other horizons over the next few years. I'm not naive. I understand that solidarity between the banks is not of that nature. Solidarity between banks isn't that big. This is the same situation in other sectors, companies are competing. I'm gonna put an apple on the couches. The banks are responsible. Mr Gilkinet said, we saved the banks billions in 2008 and 2009. So they have a certain responsibility. We will see how we can set up such a reorientation fund. We are in contact with Febelfin and have also used the administration. We hope to be able to work on that. I already have positive reactions from a number of banks, but I hope here too that I am not naive. A positive response is one thing. I'm positive because it's an interesting idea. If there is money on the table, then it will be clear what they are doing with it. There's a tension on it. As far as company formation is concerned, the banks are not supposed to do anything and then reduce the efforts they make in the bank itself at the expense of that fund. So I am very pleased that there have been so many positive reactions, or not very negative ones, but I am not naive either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u88	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u89	Mr Calvo, sometimes you have to...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u90	Compared to previous ideas, it's been shot less hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u91	Every day. Mr Massin, I have stressed the fact that I agree with you to do everything possible to reduce the redundancies. As far as the Renault Act is concerned, I must tell you that the Netherlands does not have such legislation. I've already discussed that with Louis Asscher. Belgium is therefore quite unique with that law. Because the Renault Act isn't perfect, we have to work on it. Mrs Kitir, you are of course right to say that we must avoid as much as possible in order to get into a legislative Renault situation. I have found that the first stage of the Renault Act is a difficult one. There is a difference between an announced closure and restructuring. It is also not so easy for trade unions to work out alternatives because, to put it nicely, there is usually an asymmetric information position. By this I mean that the management has a lot more information and material than the employees and their representatives. That is why we offer our support to the workers and trade union representatives. However, I fully agree that it is better to prevent us from entering that phase. The letter to the Group of Ten was, of course, sent with respect for social dialogue. I mean, I'm looking forward to the reaction. I hope to get a response from the Group of Ten this time, the sooner, the better. The members of the Group of Ten may direct and amend the proposals with their insights. It's not a bill, it's just about five elements. I hope that I have included all the issues that live in this committee. Mrs Fonck, you have asked relevant questions. However, this is not the time to provide additional information. It is now the social partners, the Group of Ten,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u92	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u93	I repeat that these are very relevant issues relating to costs and their handling, etc. I hope that the Group of Ten will reach consensus as soon as possible. Then we can discuss it further. If that takes a long time, we will have to take initiatives ourselves, as you say, Mr President. Mr Massin, you asked what I thought about the fact that there will be no pre-pensions at ING. This is obviously a debate to be held with the trade unions. To say that there will be no pre-pensions in this situation... My personal opinion is that this is a little too short. Saying, "It's our responsibility and, for the rest, we'll see," it's a little too fast said and it's not right. Again, I think it is up to the trade unions at ING to negotiate and see what they can do there. I am thinking of a reduction in the number and other elements. Mrs Kitir, I know the report of the High Council for Employment. You have rightly quoted an additional sentence. I can quote the whole report, but that is not the intention. You also referred to the debate on digitisation. How an employee can and should enjoy protection in a new environment, also in the future, is a legitimate question. I have already explained the reorientation fund. I can tell you that we will give the support that the unions ask or need to have an adult debate within ING and to agree a social plan worthy of that name. Mr Friart, as far as the fund is concerned, I think I have already given some answers. You also asked what was the reaction of Lodewijk Asscher, my colleague in the Netherlands. Mr Asscher has pointed out in particular that we should look together with the staff at the refocusing fund, not in a Belgian-Dutch fund, but in order to find out what experience they have with it in the Netherlands and how we can continue to work on it. I understand, quite oddly, that the number of layoffs there is not immediately a government matter. Mr Asscher has said that they have received important announcements from banks in the past, but at the moment that is not a major concern of the Dutch Government, although that may change. The Netherlands is not Belgium. Mr Smaers, the monitoring of social dialogue, continue to work on this and make maximum use of outplacement. As far as the Guidance Fund is concerned, I hope that by the end of the year we will be able to go a little further and give a more concrete explanation of the modalities. Future vision and more jobs: I can only confirm that. Mr Gilkinet, you asked how we could organize the conditions when we give what you call gifts and aids. There is a first question. What is the definition of State aid? What is the definition of State aid? As far as subsidies are concerned, it is a regional power to make them conditional. At Ford and Opel, subsidies were reclaimed. Nor do I think it is difficult to make subsidies conditional and to determine the conditions under which the subsidies must be repaid if the conditions are not met. Another element, considering the federal competence for tax points, wage charges and so on, is how to make them conditional and how to request them back if the conditions are not met. In general, we must be very careful about this. In the context of corporate taxation and other discussions, we are looking at how we can do this intelligently. That's gonna depend a lot on it. As the President has said, the sanctioning of sanctions, but I understand from the speeches that this is not the intention, of course, to prevent multinationals from coming here. So you've got to be careful. On the one hand, we must attract multinationals, on the other hand, we must be careful not to scare them so much that they never want to come here or leave here as soon as possible. So we need to think this through. It is against the chest, I can believe it: 7 billion dividends, announcing a small billion profits this year and leaving 3 150 people by the end of the year. That's hard on everyone, including me. That's not the point. The question is how to deal with it in a sensible way. After all, we have been confronted a few times with healthy companies which, for some reason, are saying that they are going to close down or are going to undergo serious restructuring. I understand very well that this wrings. I can only say that the solution is not that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u94	(...) the argument you cite, legal certainty and appeal, is legitimate. My question was only about the principle. I realise that legalism is a challenge and politically a sensitive issue. However, my question was about the principle, whether you are open to ensuring greater reciprocity. We can talk first about the principle and only then begin to think up any practical objections, and then perhaps a little too creative and a little too eager. After all these healthy companies, you have mentioned the dividend rate yourself, and it seems to me that it is very difficult to ignore that basic question. That would be at least as difficult for me as it would be for the determination itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u95	Mr Calvo, I am open in the world, like you, and I want to think about everything. In fact, I say that it is hard, even with me, to have the instruments to deal with them in a sensible way. We are doing an awful lot of work, for example for the tax shift, to reduce the wage burden. If that is then distracted back to more profit and then disappears somewhere, yes, then one wonders what one is doing. However, I must honestly say that I do not yet have the answers to do so in a more sensible way. If your question is whether we are open to this, in corporation tax, in employment conditions and so on, also for certain subtractions, then the debate can certainly continue. We will continue to look at this within the government. For example, there is the proposal that older workers should not be discharged at once. There are many creative ideas, both from the majority and from the opposition, which can be looked at more closely. Mr Gilkinet, you are right about the situation in the banks, but also in the other sectors. We have to think because the future of work... all the elements... Different solutions are also provided by the different parties. On my left side there is talk of a four-day working week, on my right side other measures are proposed. I would like to emphasise that we live in a very open economy and that we must take the right measures. It is my deepest conviction that there is already a whole dynamic, particularly at sectoral level, which can be stimulated and which will generate a great deal of innovation and creativity. Mr Calvo, workers are working on alternatives. I hope that the role of the government and of myself is clear, in particular reducing the number of redundancies and providing support. It is also about the concrete. What I noticed from the interview of myself and the Prime Minister with the trade unions is that the trade unions are also on the ground with both feet. One can talk about the future of work and digitalization, but the unions are looking for solutions for those who risk losing their job. That is the reality. I'm following those who say we have to make sure that the number of naked layoffs is reduced. Every reduction is a small victory. I can go along with that completely. In connection with giving oxygen to companies, there was talk of non-committality. This has already been answered, as has the demand for a broader view of digitalisation, including its societal consequences. Mrs Fonck, you pointed out the problem of the self-employed and you were right. I have already had a meeting with the organisations responsible for independents in the banking sector and I will try to help this sector. Many workers are waiting and expect us to provide the necessary support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u96	You have also given information and reactions about the Renault law. I wrote that down. Because now, I hope, as I said, that the Group of Ten will send me an opinion as soon as possible. Mr President, then there are the comments on the four-day working week and the return. I would like to say a few words about the yield of the banks. That is a question for the Minister of Finance. I'm careful so I don't exceed my powers too much. The National Bank has said that the profitability of all banks is not really great, given, among other things, the Basel and Solvency III obligations. That's a concern of the National Bank. If additional capital is to be raised in order to meet this requirement, then that capital must also be given a certain return. This is a discussion with my colleague the Minister of Finance. It's not up to me to explain the situation. The National Bank has given opinions to say that the situation of the banks is not so positive as you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u97	(...) You said you cannot comment on Van Overtveldt's statement. You're making it now. You say, "No, I'm not going to comment on my colleague's statement, the Minister of Finance." Okay. I'll see in the line. But now you say, "Oh no, in relation to the creditworthiness of banks, etc., yes, and you can see with the Minister of Finance, you know 10%, that's not enough, etc." You need to know if you do it or if you don't, the comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u98	That's right, Mr. Massin. Mr Van Quickenborne, in connection with the Renault Act, we must also look at the effects in practice. You are right that the first phase sometimes delays the preparation of the social plan. If we can make Mr Lachaert's proposal that workers continue to enjoy the social plan, even if they have found another job, that problem will already be solved. There is no limit date in the law for the first phase. The employer may, after answering all questions, say that the first stage has been completed as far as he is concerned. Trade unions can then, if necessary, go to court to contest the conclusion of that first stage. However, I have no problem with looking at how we can adapt the Renault Act, if it would delay it. As far as the banking tax is concerned, I do not agree with the remark that this element would have been part of ING's decision. I fully agree that this banking tax is high and is therefore anything but obvious to the banks. There has been a whole debate about the small banks versus the big banks and the branches versus the banks here, so that the banking tax could be distributed fairly. I do not agree with the fact that the banking tax has encouraged ING to fire 3 150 people. If that is the case, then we should certainly be very concerned, because other banks could follow that example. On the basis of my information, I believe I can say that no major bank currently has, or will shortly announce, the same restructuring in the pipeline. I speak with two words, but I do have some contacts in the banking sector. If other large banks see no reason to restructure, why should ING? If it were to be a reason, then it can only be decided that the banking tax should be reduced. That seems to me to be another problem. In my view, banks should take into account the fact that they can still benefit from the notional interest deduction and the reduction of charges. I understand that ING's CEO says he doesn't want to use the legal SWT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u99	Has there been a question in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u100	Of course, there's only one legal SWT, I don't know anyone else, unless something might have slipped my mind. So I thought that was a rather peculiar explanation, because I assume that this will be negotiated in the second phase, so I do not know what will come out of these negotiations yet. We have noted that the legal SWT, the bridge pension, will not be used. That is all I can say. It may be called upon, but that is the subject of consultation with the trade unions. Mr President, I have tried to provide information for every question you have asked, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u101	Colleagues, can we close up now? It's been a long day. Does anyone want to make another comment? Mr Massin is asking for the floor, but we already knew that, and that is not a problem. Mr Gilkinet also asked for the floor. If even Mr Van Hees wants to leave, we know that the barrel is finished. However, he is one of the fighters of the last hour, as a communist, marxist or Stalinist. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u102	The difference has already been tried to explain to me, but I fear there is not much difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u103	Mr President, it is a shame, Mr Minister of Employment, that even if at some point it burned your tongue, you did not comment on the statements of your colleague the Minister of Finance? It gives a very bad impression. Indeed, this bank sucks billions in Belgium to distribute them in the Netherlands. I understand, therefore, that this does not, contrary to what is happening in our country, make a state affair in this country. Of course, it is the Dutch who receive the dividends. You must understand our reaction. The rate of return is recorded in our country, as is the rate of return on deposits. Dividends are registered with us to be transferred to their homes, and it is with us that people are dismissed. In any event, it is felt that this bank and the government have agreed on the speech to be made. And, today, some are quite bored by the speech of the Minister of Finance who said that low rates were not a problem for banks, that everything had been settled with regard to balance sheets, that Basel III was not a problem either, since the sector had been completely restructured. I have the feeling that you are quite annoyed and that is why digitalisation is being used today to justify the elimination of jobs. For example, while we are talking about 1,700 redundancies, we are going to give some peanuts to the social partners, to the trade unions, we are going to inflate the muscles. Indeed, there is a question of restructuring and the company remains at a time when this is not the case for Caterpillar. And as you said, closure and restructuring is not the same. In this context, it is imperative to act and to show that we are able to do so, especially since trade union organisations are relatively powerful in the banking sector. These are the reasons why proposals are put on the table. But I assure you, it feels like there's been a bad deal. And when you say that you have very frequent contacts with the president of Febelfin, who is the CEO of ING, I wonder even more. Beyond that, you made an important statement. You said that the CEO's comments about pre-pensions – and you did well to remind us that this is the only legal mechanism in this area – were a little too easy. I take note of that. That is a good statement that I welcome! However, it should not be said that it is only for the social partners to negotiate in order to reduce the number of redundancies; the government also has its role to play in this context; it must make commitments. The Prime Minister said you don't like the redundancies. As I said yesterday in plenary, a bill has been tabled and you can vote on it. You have made proposals in relation to the Renault procedure and we will have to debate them, as was planned in committee. However, we have decided to wait in order not to interfere in the discussions between the social partners in the Group of Ten. Our position is a good starting point, but I hope that you will act as a member of the government because it is not enough to say that you are not satisfied and that the social partners must take their responsibilities. You must also make sure that this unpleasant impression of an arrangement between you is removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u104	Mr President, out of intellectual honesty, I would like to point out to Mr Massin that if a billion goes to Holland, part comes back because Belgian shareholders and savers benefit from it. It is not the subsidiary that pays dividends directly to the shareholders but the parent company. On the other hand, I would like to thank the minister for the clear and comprehensive answers he has given us, which is changing us from the exchange we had this morning with the CEO of ING, who was very little loquacious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am concerned about the warning you have given us, in particular that there is another file coming at us. You say that you are proactive and that you will not always react reactive. I sincerely hope that your proactive actions will not lead to the same situation as we are now in, but that it will be a positive story. I'll follow it very closely. I am pleased that you are also taking into account the comments made by the opposition and that you will study them thoroughly and look at them. I have already pointed out several times that Belgian workers are the easiest to fire, compared to other countries. The Prime Minister replied that our employees are well protected. I said at the time that they were better protected in the social field, but that they were not protected in the legal field. It is a good thing that you took that question with you, but the CEO told us that in the period from 2011 to 2021 the same thing is being done in the Netherlands. I hope that you will really take that question with you and that you will not let your actions depend on ING's CEO's response, because today no one really understands why they have taken that decision. I will not repeat the beginning of my speech, but this is the situation in which people are sitting: profits have been made and ultimately people are on the streets. I hope you really take it to heart. We're on the umpteenth round. I hope that we will no longer be in such a situation and that concrete measures will be taken to protect our workers in the legal field. You also said that the trade unions are in an asymmetrical situation, because employers have more information than they have at their disposal. I would like to call on you to strengthen their position in the works councils. It would be a good thing if they were given more information in advance, so that if they were placed in that position, they would be much stronger, would be able to develop much better alternatives and, who knows, perhaps prevent us from getting into such a situation at all. I'm glad to hear you're assisting the unions. They're right behind you. I'm sure they've seen the hand you're reaching for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u106	Mr President, I will make something clear to Mr Friart in order to contradict him. The main shareholders of ING are Anglo-Saxon pension funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u108	In any case, if it consoles you to know that so many jobs are being eliminated with such dividends because there are a few Belgian shareholders, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u109	You're making a mix.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u110	But no, but no! Furthermore, if I can acknowledge your cordiality and your concern to respond to everyone, Mr. Minister of Employment, your answers are not very clear. You're open, but very hesitant. The risk, minister, is to wait so long that, once you have the solutions, there will be no more jobs or, in any case, we will have destroyed a few thousand more jobs in our country. If the Caterpillar and ING files do not lead the government to take steps to, in one way or another, and cautiously so as not to be a push for foreign investors – it is agreed –, condition public aid with employment commitments, we go into the wall. It is billions that escape public finances every year and employment is destroyed. And the note is presented to social security, so it is important to find solutions as a matter of urgency. We don't have time anymore! You're discussing corporate tax reform. You suggested that the government was paying attention to the issue. We don't have time anymore! You must act, find solutions, show imagination and voluntarism. We cannot wait for the next file to say that we must do something and have a stomachache to see such dividends and such a destruction of employment. You're the executive! We have tabled bills. Maybe they're not perfect, but let's talk about it! Upgrade them, amend them! We must do something and give the signal to our fellow citizens that something has changed in this country. I hear indignation from members of the majority. I quoted Mr Ducrame and Mrs Lanjri had very strong comments. But if you never act, there will really be a problem. You're at the foot of the wall. Will there be elements in the Prime Minister's statement on the subject of clear short-term commitments? As part of corporate tax reform, with the government as a whole and the Minister of Finance, are you going to propose something? It's your responsibility! Agissez!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-07-54-commissie-ic507x.u111	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the trade unions, thank you for coming.
