ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in principle I must now give the floor to the members of the political groups who are not represented in the Conference of Presidents. In the event of absence, we immediately move on to the second round. In this second round, we start with the chapter Finance, Taxation, Budget and Science Policy. The following speakers were registered: MM. Piedboeuf, Vanden Burre, Gilkinet, Vanvelthoven et Maingain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u3	Mr President, I no longer know exactly what is happening in view of the names of speakers you have just mentioned. I note that opposition parliamentarians are registered. So we can continue our work, even if the television cameras are no longer there. It appears that Mrs Onkelinx's proposal has not been followed by all members of the opposition, which I am sorry for. Mr President, if all the members of the opposition withdraw, the majority will not continue the debate alone. I just wish I had confirmation of what had been envisaged. If that is the case, the debates will be closed and will not resume tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u4	I say it and I repeat it. I, Mr. Ducrame, can stay here. I can listen to the majority speak to the majority. I don't have a problem. I have already stayed in a parliament 36 hours in a row. I can do it again. I have no problem. I'm even sure I can get better. I am simply saying that we are in a very special situation. We have to recognize him. As you just said, Mr. Chairman, there are no more small groups present. They had to intervene now to challenge the way the work took place. They left the session. We're not leaving the session. We're here, but I have to tell you, there's a very bad feeling about what happened. To continue as if nothing had happened is to accept the government's rape of democracy. (...): Rape of democracy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u5	Shut up, rapist! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u7	You are right to say that you can intervene at any time. There's nothing to worry about. No one said otherwise. I didn't mention a violation of the Constitution. At the level of parliamentary democracy, a Prime Minister must take the time to listen to all groups. You did it during the day, you even talked to the opposition, from your bench, no problem. But that you didn't have the spirit to listen to all the groups is a problem for us. It is totally disrespectful of them, as Mrs Fonck said earlier. I'm uncomfortable with that, I said. I even gave them my voice earlier. In this context, what bothers me is to continue the debate as if nothing had happened. That's not true: there was a serious event.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u8	Mr President, in relation to the second round referred to by Mr Denis Ducrame, as far as we are concerned, we decided to make a single intervention, as my colleagues spoke on the basis of the debate. That's what we did earlier. We do not have, but it was planned from the start, no speaker on the second round, simply because I also know that the government's notifications are not yet made. Although we are asking many questions about the agreement, I believe that ministers will not be able to answer because there is not necessarily yet an agreement on fine tuning. So we opted for a single round of discussion with the Prime Minister. More generally, Mr President, when I look at the list of speakers in the first round, I see that colleagues Mrs Wouters, Mr Maingain and Mr Hedebouw, and perhaps Mrs Pas, were well planned. So they were in the first round. This is a subject that we will have to discuss again in the Conference of Presidents, because you are the president of the whole parliament and you are not the servant of the majority or the government. We need to talk about it again in the Conference of Presidents. I said what I was thinking about the question of respect. For the rest, we don't have a second round. If you have to listen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it will be with pleasure. I hope you will have concrete answers and you have the notifications to shed light on a few "touchy" points. If this is not the case, we will gladly listen to you without an answer, because you will not have much more than we do. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u9	We'll talk about it again, Mrs Fonck, in the Conference of Presidents of course. However, it must also be recognized that it is the right of "small groups" to leave our assembly. I didn't ask them to leave the assembly. They did it on their own.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u10	Mr. President, they were registered for the first round.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u11	Of course, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the government asked for the floor as it did throughout the plenary session. It's the Constitution itself. This will be discussed in the Conference of Presidents. I just have to stick to what's on paper. That means there's going to be a second round. We begin with Finance, Taxation, Budget and Science Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u12	Mr Piedboeuf, would you like to make your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u13	Mr. Chair, I had, of course, prepared an intervention on the Finance side, but I must say that the Prime Minister has responded with talent to all the questions. It has made an intervention as permitted by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. It is a shame that our colleagues have left. On the other hand, many technical points have not been addressed. In this regard, I would simply like to commend the quality of the work of the Budget Minister. No one has done so so far; I wanted to repair this omission and salute the minister's rigor throughout the working session with the government. I'll stay there, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u14	Mr Vanvelthoven is not here. Mr Vanden Burre has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u15	Mr President, some of the Prime Minister's answers leave me somewhat on my hunger. I'd like us to deepen them. My question is about corporate tax and the famous tax reform that is still not taking place. The future will tell us. We talked about the balance with other reforms and potential agreements reached following political games, which you yourself have denounced. In substance, I'd like to know what's already ready. You told us that some texts were being prepared. Several recent statements make me think that we can wait for clarification. I have before me an article dated September 1, in which Mr. Van Overtveldt to raise the tax rate from 34% to 20% for 2019 by taking three steps. The measure would come into effect next year and would reduce the tax rate from 27 per cent to 22 per cent for small businesses. This would apply to the part of the taxable base which is less than or equal to EUR 50 000. Starting in 2018, the rate would rise to 24% and would be 20% for small businesses. Finally, in 2019, it would be 20% for everyone. During the debate on the SME plan with Minister Borsus, a few days ago in the Committee on the Economy, I indicated to him that we had the will to defend an ambitious and strong corporate tax reform in favour of SMEs, since we have been calling for it for a long time. The minister answered this – and I read the report: "A very important corporate tax reform is in preparation, which also includes support measures for SMEs, and which represents a shift (words are strong) from a niche policy to a reduction in the nominal rate, accompanied by employment measures, start-ups, small businesses and retention of deductions for investment." What is there today on the table, whether it be in terms of rates, reflection and substance of the proposal? You were calling for a little more discussion, not only in terms of rates, but also in terms of specific complementary support for SMEs, since that is what Minister Borsus is announcing. It is important, especially for our SMEs, that we can find out more. Indeed, our current tax system is a real injustice: SMEs pay the full nominal rate, while most deductions, including notional interest, mainly benefit the larger groups, the larger multinationals, which generally have much more tax departments, which allow them to work on it. In concrete terms, could you say more about this particular subject? In the discussion this afternoon, we talked a lot about shareholders and taxes, taxes, whether discount or otherwise, in relation to shareholders and corporate shareholders. But there's one shareholder that we finally talked about very little this afternoon, it's the federal state, the public shareholder. While we know that it has real means of action, that it has very important roles to play, not only in our economy, but in terms of creating or maintaining employment. What is your strategy for public enterprises? This question is addressed both to you, Mr Van Overtveldt, and to Minister De Croo, as it is to public self-sustaining companies such as bpost or Proximus. What about public ownership via the SFPI? This question is more about your area of competence. There are a lot of large companies whose shareholder is the federal state. Some of them have come up with news recently: Brussels Airlines, we have already talked about it. The Prime Minister has already explained himself. It would be interesting to analyse not only the vision that has been developed in the past in relation to public ownership in Brussels Airlines, but also the future strategy. There is Brussels Airport, which has been mentioned recently in the press and which has a 25 % shareholding in the State, for which there is a tax optimisation via Luxembourg. The federal state is also a shareholder of BNP, Arcelor. There are a lot of strategic participations; it would be interesting to have a vision of what you are going to do about these participations and to develop a strategic vision of public ownership that is very important and is completely absent from the discussion, so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u16	Mr President, I had a few questions to ask the Minister of Finance. The first is a generic question. Minister of Finance, where are your tax revenues? One of the difficulties that has led the government to fill a €4.2 billion gap has been that there is a fundamental problem in terms of ex ante assessment of tax revenues. I think we should start this fiscal year on the basis of the results of previous years. It is a request which has been made several times in the Finance Committee to be able to have the actual revenue in tax matters, but also to have a serious and precise assessment of the cost of certain tax measures. Are you able to make us exercise the truth of tax revenues and to present us with the real tax burden in this country? This is an argument that is raised very regularly by members of the government. With regard to the measures announced by the Prime Minister in his statement this Sunday, I have three questions for you. The first concerns the fight against tax fraud. We note that in the tables which have not been given to us, but which are available to us, the additional revenue for...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u17	Mr Gilkinet, I would like to point out that the documents have been forwarded to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u18	Thirty seconds ago, then? I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I'm having trouble talking and analyzing documents coming in at the same time. You will allow, Mr President, since this debate began almost eleven hours ago, to consider that, at 9:12 p.m., receiving budget tables is not entirely satisfactory. Better late than never, it is said in French. I repeat my reasoning. In the tables we have just received, a few seconds ago, if they are the same as those we have informally, are recorded as additional revenue, in the context of the fight against tax fraud, Mr Finance Minister, an additional EUR 50 million each year. Fifty million is both a lot and very little. This is very little in relation to the assessment of the cost of tax evasion in our country. Several academics risked the exercise of the evaluation. We're talking about ten to twenty million euros. Today, we are told that ENGIE has transferred approximately €23 billion to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It can be said that the phenomenon of tax fraud – and we are studying it in the Panama commission – is really worrying and costs the federal state very large sums every year. So it can be considered very little. It can also be considered that it is a lot for your tax administration in terms of people and legal tools. I would also like to know, Mr Finance Minister, who is in charge of the fight against tax fraud, what additional resources are you going to devote to it and why this EUR 50 million is going to be spent. Why so much and why so little? How did you assess these amounts? The second issue I would like to ask you about is this potentially interesting measure relating to company cars, which offers the possibility for workers who wish to do so to transform the advantage of a company car into a net wage of 450 euros. As with other measures, I have the impression of a great improvisation on the part of the government. Mr. Reynders' communication exercise was successful since while the other members of the government were fighting, he was on the shelves trying to sell the most sympathetic measures. This recognizes his communicative ability. But what we are interested in is the way this is going to happen, Mr. Minister of Finance. Are the current beneficiaries of company cars able to benefit from this measure? What about social security contributions? Will this net salary be available to people who do not currently benefit from company cars? Could these people benefit from such a net salary, thus without paying social contributions and without contributing to the financing of social security? Since Mr Bellot is present at the sitting, which I thank him for, I would like him to answer a question which my colleague, Marcel Cheron, has asked me to put on his behalf. Minister, can you tell me what is happening with regard to the co-financing of SNCB and public transport? In fact, deciding to transform the material benefit of a company car into a net salary is an option. But allowing workers to use public transport to get to work early in the morning and to reach their home late in the evening, on regular frequencies and in tight schedules, is something else. Can you tell me what the expected refinancing following this reform of taxation on company cars is? You are aware that we are proposing a mobility budget and a massive refinancing of SNCB within the framework of the alternative budgets. Finally, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, we took note of the important announcement that a solution would finally be found to the Arco issue. In any case, this was mentioned in your statement yesterday. That made us react, Mr. Peeters. Indeed, this is the fifth time that the CD&V has purchased a solution for the Arco file. I hope this time is the right one. Because paying five times for a case not to be settled is not a very good deal. But consider that this time is the right time, that you will not have to play a sixth time, Mr Peeters! Still, there are two new elements in the Prime Minister's statement yesterday. The first relates to the establishment of a task force. Depending on the government agreements, I would like to know who composes it and who will exercise leadership. I am not sure that the only presence of the Minister of Finance is sufficient for a solution to be found. The second new element was 2017 in the Prime Minister's statement yesterday. Is this an obligation of means, of result? How long do you think this solution can take? Sub-question: How much will it cost and who will finance it? It is not just a question, Prime Minister, of announcing more or less good news in the gallery, but it is a question of knowing the means that are on the table. Especially in Flanders, but also a little in Wallonia, tens of thousands of savers are listening and would like to know more, and more precisely. This is the third issue on which I would like to hear from you, Mr. Minister of Finance. The first was the fight against tax fraud, the second was the company cars, and the third was the Arco case, in the general context of tax revenues which, unfortunately, do not enter Belgium and are partly the cause of the budgetary difficulties of your colleague Mrs Wilmès, who has a great deal of patience with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u19	As the list of speakers on the Finance chapter is exhausted, I give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vanden Burre, Mr. Gilkinet, as far as ISOC is concerned, the absolute need for corporate tax reform has already been explicitly recognized by the government in April 2016. At that time, the government asked me to table a corporate tax proposal in early September. From April to today, important work has been done. This work has led to clear proposals which, in turn, have been the subject of different variations. These proposals are funded. Our SMEs deserve this tax fairness, to which Mr Vanden Burre referred. Former tax regimes are under international pressure. We must seize this opportunity to simplify the system and lower the burden on SMEs. Almost all parties, even those of the opposition, supported this project. I therefore assume that the support is great for what will eventually be decided on ISOC. Let me turn to your second question on public enterprises. The government is constantly thinking about strategies to follow. With regard to Belfius, which falls within the jurisdiction of Finance, management has succeeded in making this institution a truly profitable bank. It is a huge effort that has been made. You are well aware that privatisation is included in the government agreement. However, the Belgian banking landscape should be considered in depth when talking about Belfius. Four large banks, including two foreigners (Belfius and KBC), are active. This reasoning also applies to the other companies you mentioned. With regard to tax revenues, a few months ago, I asked the FPS Finance to inquire about the systematic discrepancies in the forecasts. These cannot, by definition, be correct. However, the differences between the forecasts and what is finally achieved always go in the same direction. We must therefore question ourselves. FPS Finance responded in July. It is recognized that, in the methodology, something is wrong and produces these divergences systematically downwards. The government admitted it. We have included the €739 million cushion in the budget, primarily for revenue, in line with the FPS Finance note. With regard to tax evasion, I would point out, Mr Gilkinet, that the total amount entered in the budget until 2017 is 440 million, to which we have added 50 million. You know very well that, following the Panama Papers, many additional measures have been added for the fight against fraud, drawn up by the Finance Committee and also in plenary session. We were able to draw up 12 or 13 measures. We are currently evaluating these measures with the ISI. We look above all at what they bring to us in terms of combating tax fraud. I believe there are prospects to fill the $50 million that has been included in the current budget. I will not hesitate to develop new measures. The current anti-fraud plan contains measures that can be pursued. We are prepared to compensate for the $50 million in the budget. With regard to car taxation or fuel card, it must be recognised that company cars, fuel cards and the current situation are mainly a consequence of too high wage costs. The employer's deduction for fuel costs will be adjusted by the government's decision on this budget. Nothing will change for the workers. This measure is associated with the development of a mobility budget. An employee must be able to choose between remuneration in kind plus the choice of a mode of transportation or remuneration in pay. This project will be developed in collaboration with the relevant ministers at the federal and regional level for Mobility. I stress that it is important for the worker to be able to choose but without suffering any loss. As far as Arco is concerned, an implementation plan will be prepared and a task force will activate this plan in 2017. It contains various financial and legal elements and I will quote from the director of Aktieteam Arcopar who said this morning: In particular, I should like to quote - a legal arrangement, which is not the subject of any proceedings'. It is therefore necessary to do financial and legal work in the coming weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u21	On Arco, I asked you who is a member of the task force and what budget you have to solve this problem. These are two specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u22	It is a decision that will be made within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u23	And the budget, too? Is that included in the document that you are going to present to Europe, Madam Minister for Budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u24	Mr President, to amplify the very relevant question of my colleague Gilkinet, because I have just overcame the document which has been forwarded to the European Commission. At this point – and I am informing Mr Verherstraeten; I do not know if he has already had the opportunity to read the document in its entirety – no amount is provided to finance the Arco file in 2017. However, if I understood what was taken here as a minimalist commitment, it would be operationalized as early as 2017. So there is a hiatus, not to say anything else, between the commitment in principle and the number. The amount of EUR 600 million was mentioned, but is not included in the budget tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u25	There are two elements here. There is no need for full funding in the budget. Secondly, in March we have budgetary control in which we can add to or branch things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u26	You still haven't answered me about the task force. For the rest, an appointment is made here during the first budgetary control. Is this a commitment or an assumption? Because it's really important. A few tens of thousands of people are waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u27	Mr President, I want to support the points and try to clarify because I feel that there are concerns and questions, and I really want to ease the questions. I know your very great charity, Mr. Cheron. I would like to point out that, as has been said, the decision now taken to close the liquidation - this is the new element - to activate at the start of the government, a task force whose composition will be decided by the Council of Ministers in order, no doubt, to represent the various Deputy Prime Ministers and the Prime Minister, and which will also have to carry out the legal and financial analysis leading to a settlement. Your question mentioned postulates. As part of the development of the regulation, we will check whether they are correct. You seem to think that it is necessarily through the budget that a financial solution can be found. It is precisely a question that will be submitted to the task force. Let's not put the plow before the oxen. First, we identify the types of solutions and then make arrangements to make them operational. The challenge is to make every effort to bring these solutions into force in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u28	Prime Minister, I note that you are opening the door to implement it out of the budget. Good luck with Europe, but we'll see. Having said that, I would like to raise the ambiguity that you are also opening the door to a legal problem such that no regulation is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u29	No. I try not to put the plow before the ox and do things with method. I think that on such a legally complex subject, we need to do precise analyses, with specialized lawyers to identify solutions. My political will has not changed since the establishment of this government; it is to find a solution that is in accordance with law and financially operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u30	I would like to return to the question of the budget estimates and the fact that the results do not correspond to the estimates. The Minister of Finance's proposal is to have forecasts closer to the results. But at the level of the government and the FPS Finances, is there any question about the adequacy of the means with the objectives? Is your administration now in a position to properly recover the tax, to fight tax evasion? All the signals given to us are that the means are no longer in line with the objectives entrusted to the FPS Finance. We can therefore wonder whether the fact that the revenue is not in line with the forecasts is not the result of the dismemberment of the tax administration, the legacy of sape work, if I can say so, achieved by one of your predecessors for more than ten years, Mr Reynders, and whether there is no need to re-evaluate the ability of the tax administration to do its job and not to grapple with small fish: it is the self-employed who is late for contributions, the small SME who is late for VAT, and on which we are going to fight by leaving the biggest phenomena of fraud unpunished and tens of millions, even billions of euros, to escape from public finances. I think, Mr. Minister of Finance, that you absolutely must carry out this exercise. As far as corporate cars are concerned, we are facing a magnificent announcement effect from the federal government. This is an end measure of a sympathetic budget conclave, but whose consequences you have not measured. Anyway, we find her potentially friendly. You know that we are very critical of this annual subsidy for traffic jams that cost our country billions of euros. That's what the FEB says. We are convinced that we need alternatives to the company car. We want to encourage you to continue to study this issue, by also measuring its impact on the financing of social security, because offering all workers the opportunity to get a share of net wages can only have consequences on the financing of social security. This is not a problem, as long as you plan strong and convincing alternative financing. Thirdly, on the Arco file, in order for this to be the case in the report, three new pieces of information were obtained. One, the liquidation of Arco is complete and it opens the possibility of triggering the process of indemnification of tens of thousands of people concerned. Two, the task force will be Kern. We could rename Kern Task Force. That's good. Mr Peeters, that's good: the CD&V will be represented. That seemed important to me, so that you did not have to pay a sixth time, and all of our fellow citizens with you, a potential resolution of the Arco case. Three, we have an appointment that is budgetary control, the first budgetary adjustment in March 2017. We will verify that the government will act within this time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u31	Mr Gilkinet, in order to avoid misunderstandings and misunderstandings, I would like to be quite precise. The liquidation is nearing completion. It is not completely closed, but it is expected to be closed very soon. I wanted to be precise so that afterwards, I was not told that I had said that it was over when it was not entirely. I know you now and I prefer to be precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u32	I note for the report that it is incessant. I do not know if this will happen before or after the budget tables at the European Commission, but we are close to a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u33	I'm also going to ask a few more questions as I stayed a little bit on my hunger. In terms of corporate tax, thank you for your answer, but it's true, whether in terms of timing or in terms of rates, you say "here, it's completely funded" but how? Your answer is still unclear. Mr Minister, I have the impression that the ambition of a broad reform of corporate tax in favour of SMEs remains somewhat blocked on the altar of the political games that were denounced this afternoon, precisely in relation to the deals between the various partners. I asked you the question. You answered me but the exercise stops there since you have given absolutely nothing. I take note of it, but it's a shame, we're not making any progress. In relation to public ownership, thank you for your response to Belfius. Good if this is a positive example that seems to change your mind because, if I remember correctly, a few years ago, you were rather in favour of a rapid privatisation of Belfius! You look like you're going back to that position. I'm glad. With regard to the other state participations in the SFPI, I am somewhat concerned that you do not have more comments to make. I think it is really fundamental that we can have a substantive discussion on the strategy of the state in all the companies where it is a shareholder and an important shareholder of important groups, whether it is for the anchoring of employment, whether it is for the decision-making centres that remain in our country, whether it is for a long-term vision of a strategic state. This is fundamental to us. As I have already asked in the Committee on Finance, it seems to me important to have a substantive discussion on this and that you and the SFPI, if any, come forward with your strategy. Finally, I would also like you to answer me about Brussels Airport. Last Friday, we learned in the press about the existence of a tax optimisation construction. I grant a slight benefit of doubt. The State is a 25 per cent shareholder. However, this company uses tax optimisation, if not more, via Luxembourg. Therefore, does the federal state not have a duty of fiscal exemplaryness? Is this a normal situation? Is it an example for companies in that country? Is it an example that a company where the state is 25 per cent shareholder has to go through tax optimization? I would like you to provide me with an answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to make use of the restored serenity and openness to address something very much in line with the questions raised by my fellow Members, namely the investment pact and parliamentary involvement. Mr Vanden Burre's question, which is what we will do with the institutions where we are shareholders, is an important building block of our national investment pact. I have just, during my reply in a somewhat more turbulent context, launched the proposal to give form and substance to parliamentary involvement by a parliamentary steering committee with the group leaders and the government. You did not answer my question at the time. You are now more open to suggestions and questions. Do you see such a formula? After all, it would be a form of democratic renewal and, above all, a way of writing together an investment plan that could last longer than the present legislature and transcend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u35	In response to Mr Calvo's question – the Minister of Finance will answer the previous question – I confirm what I have said two or three times in Parliament. I am in favour of a form of cooperation with Parliament on such an important subject. Now, with regard to the concrete and precise modality, we have not mentioned it in the Council of Ministers. I will not fail to submit your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u36	Mr President, first of all, with regard to the remarks made on the FPS Finances, I would like to make two points. First, with respect to the forecasting methodology, the FPS Finance is now working fully to improve this methodology and ensure that it has better forecasts than in recent years. Secondly, with regard to fraud, I repeat that there are almost 100 additional people working in the ISI. In addition, the computer system has also been developed to enable these people to do their job in modernity and efficiency. For ISOC, the exercise is ongoing. It is a rather complicated exercise, with many parameters that you need to be able to manage very well in order to arrive at an optimal solution. It's in progress. We're working on it and we're hoping to reach conclusions as soon as possible. Finally, we check which companies have or have not made tax optimisations. Since there is, of course, also a "legal security" aspect, we cannot do anything. But this will certainly be verified. It will examine what has happened and, if exercises are not eligible, the necessary will be done for these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u37	Mr Vanden Burre, on this last subject, I have just told you that we may well have a hearing in the Finance Committee with those responsible for the Federal Participation Company, which is not only in Brussels Airlines, but also in other companies. You asked a very specific question about this. The Minister has just spoken about tax optimisation in Luxembourg by the Federal Participation Company in relation to Brussels Airlines. I do not know to what extent it falls within the competence of the Minister to judge it. In my view, the tax administration is the more important one. Since it is about optimization in Luxembourg, it is possible that we are not even competent at all. In order to have a good debate, I think we should ask the chairman of the Federal Participation Society, Mr Van Loo, in the Finance Committee. We can then tell him that he has stakes in different companies. We can ask questions about the strategy behind it and also questions about tax optimisation. I propose to hold a global debate with the Federal Participation Society. The Federal Participation Company may also publish an annual report. In the Flemish Parliament we had the opportunity to question each year those responsible for the Regional Investment Company, the GIMV, who came to explain themselves. That is how we used to hear Mr Herman Daems and Mr Outryve. I do not know if the Federal Participation Society has been heard here in the past; I have not yet seen it. I agree to organise such a hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u38	Agreed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u39	Mrs. Fonck, you agree? Then we'll definitely do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u40	I take note of Mr Van Rompuy's willingness to hold hearings in the Committee on Finance. Above all, I wanted to know the government's overall vision for its long-term shareholder strategy. Following the revelations of last Friday, it is challenging to learn that, in the existing holdings, one of the most important, Brussels Airport, makes fiscal optimization in Luxembourg. I couldn't help but ask the question. Is that normal? The subject of the debate is not about this but about the whole strategy, and I hope there is one, public participation. There was little in the statements so far and I think that was missing. Thank you for adding this debate to the work of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u41	We will close the discussion on the Finance and Budget chapter. We move on to the chapter on Work, Business, Small Business and Agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u42	Mr President, like my colleague Benoît Piedboeuf, I am not going to carry out my speech as I prepared it, since we have already talked a lot about employment and the Prime Minister has already answered many questions. I would like to take up a few points that we believe are important, given that the government has chosen to undertake major structural reforms in terms of employment, purchasing power and the competitiveness of enterprises since the beginning of the legislature. We continue to support this and we already have results because there are 76,000 new jobs and business creation has never been so high in ten years. In 2015, we had a net job creation of 19,411 in business, it was worth noting. Despite what has been said, and which we have recently heard or read in the press, the purchasing power of our citizens will not be affected because we do not touch the index, we do not touch the allowances. There will be no increase in VAT or excise duties. I would like to contradict some people's over-recurring remarks. Two aspects are important in this labour reform proposed by the Minister for Employment. First, it envisages a work that can be done, reconciling professional and private life. I heard earlier that this poses problems for some parties, and yet it is a demand from the company as much as the worker, who wants greater flexibility in his work. He'll be able to work longer, at times. I read in a study, by the way, that some people wanted to have an account in relation to the hours they were working so that they might be able to save days when they wanted to. Telework, leave donations and e-commerce: all this goes in the direction of greater flexibility. I think we will all agree that consumption patterns are changing, that lifestyles are changing and that businesses obviously have to adapt, otherwise they will lose market share. Where this is the case, jobs are lost. Last point: the revision of the 1996 Act. It was a good law, but again, we see that despite it, our wages have now risen faster than those of neighbouring countries. This poses a problem for the competitiveness of our companies. This law needs to be evaluated and reformed so that our companies can continue to be competitive. I would like to stress one last point: youth employment. This is a matter of concern and the government has decided to take it in arms. He wants to give young people the chance to integrate into the workplace through a first job helping them set foot in the stirrup. I think we can only encourage him. Indeed, a job is less unemployment. It is an increase in the purchasing power of young people and we can only encourage the government to continue its reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u43	Mr Minister for Employment, the debate was taken up by the various group leaders in the rostrum. You were unable to answer this fundamental question because it was the Prime Minister who spoke. I would therefore like to hear you specifically about the decision, resulting from the budgetary conclave, to reduce the minimum wage for workers under 21 years of age. I would like you to explain to me what justifies such negative discrimination against young workers. Do you really consider this to be an incentive to work? Do you consider that earning even less than the minimum wage gives young people the ability to get into working life, to buy the used car they need to get to their workplace? Is it not, in this case, a measure discouraging the employment of young people, stigmatizing and contrary to the objectives you are announcing? Perhaps my second question concerns the Minister for Social Affairs, who is absent. We were particularly interlocked by the measure that was cited in the rostrum. I am referring to the one aimed at penalizing pregnant workers, since they must be segregated before their birth leave because they are active in areas at risk for their motherhood. It is intended, but perhaps you are going to mislead me, to hold employers accountable or, in any case, to make them pay part of the cost of this spread. How do you assess, Mr. Minister of Employment, this provision in terms of its impact on women's employment? Do you not consider this to be a hindrance to their engagement, which, unlike men, may become pregnant? Have you asked the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men about the effects of this measure? Has the impact been assessed in the non-market sector, particularly in the area of personal assistance (nurses, youth assistance, nursing homes)? Aren't we going to see untenable budgetary consequences? Budgets are so tight in these sectors that they lead either to an increase in the contribution of beneficiaries or to the introduction of managerial standards that put pressure on workers and can lead to burn-out, exhaustion and long-term illnesses. Finally, I learned during the 7:30 p.m. television news that the Prime Minister was considering measures that would make it much easier for working parents to go to school to find their children. It would be a form of relaxation of working time. I confess that I did not perceive this dimension at the time of the Prime Minister's statement this Sunday noon. Since you are in charge of employment, can you explain to us how the provisions envisaged are indeed likely to facilitate the parenting function of certain workers, particularly when it comes to getting a sick child from the nursery or school? Is this something other than a slogan? These are my three questions, Mr. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u44	I have no other speakers. I shall therefore pass the floor to the Minister for Employment. You were not registered, Mr. Nollet, but it doesn't matter: you can have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u45	Mr President, I will be very brief. I am going to amplify the question of youth employment. Can you assure us that none of them will lose in terms of net salary, as a result of the measure put forward in the Prime Minister's budget plan earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as youth employment is concerned, the Prime Minister has already responded very clearly. However, the net salary will not be reduced. Only the wage costs of companies will be reduced. In other words, personal social contributions and taxation will be reduced, thanks in particular to the technique of social and fiscal employment bonuses. Your second question falls within the competence of my colleague, Mrs Maggie De Block. Your last question is about occasional telework. In this regard, the Prime Minister has already given very clear explanations. In any event, we have decided to organize occasional telework in situations to which you have referred. This will be included in the bill that we hope will be approved quickly. For the rest, I'll send you back to Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u47	What was the question? Excuse me, but I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u48	My speech is addressed to the Minister of Business, whom I thank for her presence. We will go back to the commissions in detail, but we learned that the government is considering making employers feel responsible by making them pay for some of the costs associated with the fact that some workers, in sectors at risk, need to be excluded before they can give birth. Has the measure been assessed on the basis of its impact on women's employment? Was the opinion of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men required? What is that opinion? Don't you fear that it will encourage the hiring of men to the detriment of women? Have you measured the impact of the prophylactic gap on relevant sectors, in particular the non-market sector of personal assistance – a sector that has a lot of difficulty balancing its budgets and must do so either by increasing pressure on workers or by increasing the contribution of beneficiaries (older people, disabled people, children without parents)? Madam Minister of Social Affairs, this is one of the many unfair measures that characterize the measures taken by this government. How, with your sensitivity as a woman, have you been able to accept that the government is considering it and finally adopt it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u49	Thank you for your question. The law provides that a pregnant woman, who does a job which she cannot continue to do during her pregnancy, must have an adapted job at the workplace or may fall partly or completely back on the sickness fund. Previously, this was paid by the Professional Diseases Fund, but this was transferred to the RIZIV from 1 January 2010. After a few years, we find that, in particular, the number of full-time removals has increased compared with the number of part-time removals. This makes us think that these women are all too easily removed from work preventively. The number of preventive removals in people with maternity rest has increased from 25% in 2005 to 37% now. We want to give the employer the opportunity to give women other jobs. This is also more attractive financially. We want to introduce a response in this area so that these women are less often removed from the workplace for about a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u50	I take note of Minister Peeters' response. I assume that it is also valid for young people who pay little or no taxes and that we will work through some kind of tax credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u51	Mr President, since this morning I have tried to listen to all the debates as well as possible. I want to say something. The common thread of this government over the past two years, which one sells as efficiency and progress, is becoming a particularly painful element, in particular the impact of the nuclear cabinet's decision on women in particular. We have already had decisions in the last two years to limit the income guarantee. From 2017 it will be halved. There was the reform of mini-pensions with a clear warning from the Council of State about discrimination against women. We have a structural underfunding of the Alimony Services Office, a problem that we have repeatedly raised in recent years. I myself have since 2007, when I was still on those committees. I've heard the Minister's answer. We now see a decision to allow pregnant women and groups at risk to work longer. It's sold as some kind of encouragement for alternative jobs in the workplace. That encouragement already exists. It is this government that has decided to hold back a stick of 10% of the employer's effort in the benefit when that alternative is not found. What will happen? Women at risk, for example in the chemical sector, will logically be much more difficult to obtain this job, while we are working so hard on sensitisation to break gender stereotypes of recruitment behaviour and encourage women to apply there. Women working in sectors of care, where these alternatives are not so often present, will find that their employer is being punished, thereby reducing the scope for workable work and full-time replacement. That will be the direct consequence of this decision. It's really important to me, after two years of policy. What have women and precarious professions actually done to this government? All that summing up of all these measures together! I'm sorry, but there's a blind spot in all these measures, taken by this male nuclear cabinet. There is an impact on vulnerable women on the labour market. You simply push them into poverty while working part-time, make the combination of work-care more difficult and now punish them if they want to break out of their gender stereotypes or end up in a care profession. Well done, I'd say you're abandoning all those women again today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u52	Mr President, I honestly do not understand it very well. With this government, we have increased the time loan for parents who care for young children from 36 months to 48 months. We have done this in order to improve the work-family combination. This is a very family-friendly measure and also a woman-friendly measure. Second. Your attack bewilders me a little, Mrs. Almaci. We're just laying the responsibility of the employer. The employer must pay 10% if he is not able to find a suitable job for the woman in question. So we leave the invoice with the employer who doesn't want to adapt. Third. You say that this measure will throw women out of the labour market. Then you have a very negative view of the whole job. As you know, in our country, like many European countries, we respect legislation on women and maternity leave. I think you have a pessimistic view of what will happen here. On the contrary, this measure just ensures that women can remain active, albeit partial, so that we can maintain and even improve the level of activity you have just referred to, the level of activity in our country, just as a result of this measure. I therefore find your view of the matter very unsophisticated. I believe that the government's approach to this issue is the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u53	I have already learned to wait for the reply of Unizo, the employers, to be heard in this kind of debate. The point is, of course, that Mr Van Quickenborne is completely ignorant of the fact that this will reduce women's chances of being accepted for these professions in those professions, in those jobs, in those jobs at risk. That's what it's about. In the care professions, an alternative job is not so easy to find. Sectors that are already struggling to provide good care and that are already moaning under the workload will moan even more under the workload because they will have less budget for good care. So it is indeed good not to spend the night brimming to get a budget that might be right on paper. We have just got the figures and we will take a good look at it, but it is in the facts hot air. These measures have a double negative impact on employers because they will discourage the recruitment of women and for women in care professions because they will increase the workload there even more. I will say more, perhaps there should be more effective talk in that majority. I also referred just now to income guarantee payments. Today, colleague Els Van Hoof of CD&V wrote a piece on behalf of the CD&V women about the pay gap. I have just heard Mr Dewael talk about the pay handicap. Do you know how big the pay handicap of women is towards men? Not a word about it in the government statement. A fifth. If you, as a liberal, were to work on freedom and emancipation and talk about it in the government statement, you could increase the purchasing power of all those women by a fifth. That would be progress, but not a word about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u54	It will be difficult to intervene after Mrs Almaci, whose anger I totally share. In this case, Mr. Van Quickenborne, do you really believe in what you are announcing? As far as time credit is concerned, a minister of pensions whom you know very well has begun the work which was continued by the Minister of Pensions here. Together with the Minister of Employment and the government as a whole, you have systematically abolished similar periods for parents in particular. It is often women in our society and too few men who decide to temporarily reduce their working time to take care of their child, thereby promoting good education and making many savings in the future. Secondly, you feel that responsibility is on the shoulders of employers. Do you not think that the employers, on the one hand, think before making the choice to hire a man or a woman and that, in the end, the pressure is on the pregnant woman who, rather than risking dismissal in the competitive context we know, will agree to work despite her condition and despite the risks involved? Thirdly, a question that you have not answered and for which this government has no sensitivities, it is the question of the non-market sector which, in its majority, allows these workers to be active. They play an essential societal role in helping people. It is this sector that will be penalized by this measure, with consequences that will either decrease the accessibility of people in difficulty or increase the pressure on the workers concerned. For us, this is unacceptable! Madam Minister of Social Affairs, you have cited a lot of statistics. I was hoping for a woman with a little more sensitivity!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u55	Mr Van Quickenborne, I have to say that you are far from reality in this respect. (Protests from Mr Van Quickenborne) You say "Oh, my God," but listen to me. You're not really listening. Why don't you give it a shot as a man? That is indeed a sexist remark, Mr Jambon. That's true. I take them back. Mr Van Quickenborne, no longer than fourteen days ago, when the measure was not yet known, three young women between 20 and 25 years of age reported to me the following. I have also experienced this, although I already belong to another generation. So I was of the opinion that this was no longer possible today. During the interview, they were asked whether, first, they had children and, second, whether, if they had no children, they intended to have children. The measure was not known at the time. Mr Van Quickenborne, why do you think that was? That was because the employer in question was not prepared to hire women who he suspected might be pregnant within a short period of time and could no longer be employed for a certain period. You are now suggesting that the measure in question, which also penalises the employer if he does not find a suitable job, no longer exists such a situation, that the employer will simply do so, that he will pay that 10% with pleasure and will make no distinction between the women who apply and their male colleagues. Mr Van Quickenborne, I am sorry, but you are far from reality. Madam Minister, it is a shame that we, women, have yet to defend that position today, anno 2016. I meant, frankly, that it was a fight of my mother, which I shouldn't be fighting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u56	Mr President, as long as we remain, and as the debates are going on a little bit, I would like to speak again on this matter. I did say earlier that this could be a brake on a young woman's engagement. Let us not look at the face for those who are on the ground: it happens regularly that employers, looking at the CVs, ask a young woman, who is applying for a job, if she has ever had any pregnancies! Let's not pretend it doesn't exist. What is disturbing is that when a pregnant young woman is excluded for reasons of occupational exposure, she earns less. It's important to leave the choice to women. Some women do not want to be excluded and earn less income, as the benefits are lower and prefer to continue to work. Others don't want to be in any position, for which they may not have the skills, so it's a problem. Allowing a choice is an important element. At the enterprise level, it can be a completely impossible task to sign a young woman who works in an X position in a Y position. I am thinking of small and medium-sized enterprises. How do you do it in a company, when you have three or four staff members, a TPE, that you have a young woman pregnant, exposed to occupational risk and that you have to assign to another workplace? This can be completely impossible. I would like us to pay real attention to the reality of SMEs. I do not know whether this concerns the Minister for Social Affairs or the Minister for Employment. This may not be possible in sectors such as the non-marketer, where the percentage of female staff is very high. I'm thinking about hospitals, nursing homes. Let's take a nurse specializing in radiology, you don't know all of a sudden assign her to the emergency room, where there are risks as well or elsewhere in the hospital. We are therefore sometimes faced with an impossibility. In doing so, in practice – acknowledge it – this measure introduces an additional tax for businesses. Indeed, in SMEs and the non-market sector, many are those for whom it is not possible to work in another available position. This will therefore lead to an increase in the cost of labour. It's still a big deal when you know that it's a royal decree that sets the rules for spacing following occupational exposure during pregnancy. Despite this, you impose a penalty, plus a tax on employers. There is a real problem here. It would therefore be necessary to look at all situations where it is not possible to allow a choice in case of exposure within SMEs or the non-market sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, contrary to what you have announced, credit-time periods to care for children are similar periods. They were even increased from 36 to 48 months. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u58	Mr President, I am not going to let Bacquelaine ship me in such a way. On the one hand, this type of time credit is strictly conditioned. On the other hand, you know very well that women workers used other types of time credits in a way that was complementary to that used to care for their children. With regard to the overall problem of credit-time, regardless of the question of childcare, the way in which you have decided to make a very strong condition of access to the latter and no longer to recognize credit-time periods as periods assimilated in the calculation of the pension greatly hampers the possibility of pursuing a career and, at the same time, to lead a satisfactory private and family life. In addition, there are issues related to the sharing of work available. Spontaneously, workers want to work less to sometimes prolong their careers. You no longer allow those who are likely to replace them during this time to do so. These are measures of short-sighted savings that severely penalize women and families. That's obvious, Mr. Minister of Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u59	Just a little word of information for Mrs. Fonck. I am not speaking on the whole issue, but as far as SMEs are concerned, they are excluded from the measure, given the limited possibilities of internal mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u60	As long as we push you, let's push a little more. In the non-commercial sector, 80-90% of the staff are female and it is a very young staff. So there are a large number of pregnancies. There is a specialisation of work in the various positions, which is mandatory, I would remind you. How do you do it then? Do you put 10, 15, 20, 50, 100 pregnant women in I don't know which mandatory position? It's unmanageable for the employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u61	I speak only about my skills. You mentioned SMEs. I'm replying to you about SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u62	It was by listening to you that the question came to me. Compared to the pregnant women who have been left out, especially the childminders in the communal crèches, I think that not all of them will be able to be rectified and that therefore the weight will again be carried over to the communes. So I'm worried about who's gonna pay in those cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u63	Can we close this chapter here? I turn to Mrs Grovonius and give her the floor for her speech in the section on Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u64	Mr President, Mr Minister, more than ever before mobility has been at the heart of the news this year, a major issue that affects both the good health of our economy and that of our fellow citizens. Eight billion euros, that's what traffic jams cost our companies every year, or 2% of our GDP. To these eight billion, we still have to add the social cost of mobility, i.e. the costs borne by society, such as pollution-related or stress-related diseases, accidents and noise nuisances, i.e. one billion a year by society. So we are facing a huge challenge and a fundamental turning point. In this context, we must all shoulder our responsibilities. The Regions and the federal government must work in good intelligence to find the most appropriate answers that will enable our citizens to get out of hell. Prime Minister, you are proposing a multi-billion euro national pact for strategic investments, particularly for major infrastructure works related to mobility. There are many pitfalls but we want to be resolutely open for the good and simple reason that we no longer have the choice: either we move forward and we work together to improve the mobility of all Belgians, or it is the general asphyxiation that awaits us. The message is therefore well received, but you have yet to present us with a concrete proposal. As my group leader said, we can also support your willingness to set up a mobility budget, the aim being to convince employees who benefit from a company car to change their mobility behaviour. That being said, we must not only strive to improve the mobility of company car holders alone, those who are already very favoured and who account for only 7% of the vehicles on our roads. We also need to look at the whole range of commuting. It is in this context that the PS has tabled a motion for a resolution which generalizes the paying third party and thus the free movement of home-to-work journeys by train. Unfortunately, in the current state of affairs, it seems unlikely to see a massive abandonment of the company car, for the sake of the simple reason that this government is doing absolutely everything in its power to discourage alternatives, the use of public transport, and in particular the train. It is high time this government stopped the contradictory messages. On the one hand, you are announcing a massive investment in infrastructure as well as the establishment of a mobility budget and, on the other, you are literally removing SNCB by imposing 3 billion savings on it, thus endangering public service missions particularly in rural areas, not to mention the lamentable saga surrounding the RER. A strong move that would avoid any temptation to greenwashing in the head of this government would, for example, be to transfer the EUR 100 million in revenue provided for by greater taxation of gas cards to the SNCB budget. It would be a concrete transfer from an individual mode of transport to a collective mode, thus contributing in practice to the improvement of daily mobility. We are happy to hear that you want to reduce the number of cars on our roads and that you want to clear the necessary means for the infrastructure but, if it is to not see any trains driving there, we will miss the objective. Prime Minister, let us therefore take advantage of the national pact to reinvest massively in the rail system so that it becomes the keystone again, the central part of our mobility system. This investment will only be a win-win investment, both for our citizens and for our businesses, and for the finance of the state itself, and we may be able to consider seeing a massive shift from the car to the train. I cannot, of course, finish this speech without talking about the staff and the railwaymen who are subjected to your blind obstinacy. Unfortunately, these are considered by this government to be burdens, lazy and privileged. And we see that, under this legislature, it continues; they have not been spared in any way. After an obligation to increase demented productivity, after the abolition of however totally legitimate and justified recovery days, this government continues its tireless work of undermining by now tackling the minimum retirement age. Every time, it's the same technique: to make the railwaymen look like children far too spoiled. It is here that all the violence of this government ultimately mounts the citizens, the workers against each other, by masking the reality of situations which are nevertheless quite different. Mr Minister, it is necessary to be clear and to recall the facts: the specific retirement scheme is not a gift to railway workers, nor to the military, but an adequate response to the real physical and psychological constraints of the profession, an adequate response to the flexibility and amplitude of the timetables. And all this, even as social consultation on difficult jobs is in full swing. In a word as in a hundred: it's pathetic! Unfortunately, I fear that this consultation will take place very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u65	Mr President, given the quality of the debate and the quality of listening, I wanted to say a word about mobility. I have already been able to question Minister Bellot about the announcement he made in July of this year of an investment through a loan for rail and rail development. At the time, he felt that much had to be done to finance the RER, and in particular the two lines which, coming from Wallonia, crossed the beautiful Walloon Brabant and joined Brussels. For the moment, these lines are totally incapable of meeting the mobility needs which, as Mrs Grovonius pointed out, are very important. I have had the opportunity to question Mr. Bellot, but I would like to take advantage of the presence of other people, including the Prime Minister, to know what is happening to this billion productive investment. This is the new concept on which my excellent colleague, Mr Calvo, spoke earlier. You have understood his insistence on participating positively in this idea of productive investment. After all, we have been defending this for so many years. For once the government takes up a good idea, we will throw ourselves on it like misery on the world. But is that billion in connection with the general investment pact we talked about? Is it in or is it apart? Secondly, the Minister of Budget is not here at the moment, but what is the potential impact of a vehicle loan that would be... it's not clear, the SNCB or Infrabel? I tend to believe that this is one rather than the other, given the European regulations on debuddling or otherwise. There are a number of things to be respected. I would also like to know whether there is an impact on the budget or not. Even if we are not in the perimeter and it is a vehicle, which the Commission considers to be based on its own standards, should the Federal State not be a guarantor? So what is the impact of a measure like this on the estimation of our debt as a whole? My excellent fellow group leader – because there is wealth and diversity in our home – Jean-Marc Nollet has already had the opportunity to read and read the document you sent to Europe. Mr Moscovici probably has to report this to Mr Hollande tonight, between two conversations with journalists. There can be a potential impact on debt. However, we are already very close to 3%. We are approaching it dangerously. If, in addition, this is an estimate of Mr. Van Overtveldt, we're probably 4%. Truce of joke, Mr. Van Quickenborne, ever since you got a promotion in a row, you've been a little prolix. I'd like an explanation of that billion. Indeed, in the course of Mr. Bellot's interviews, the impact on the ER decreases, Prime Minister. I don't know if you've seen it, but we're getting closer to the Walloon Brabant; it's becoming a dangerous file. I thought there was, in the billion, more than 100 million for the RER. We're gonna have to call Mrs. Galant back! The ER is still an essential element. Concerning the technique of this billion announced, and the negotiation with Europe, where are we? Are there any contacts with the European Commission? We learned that it was Infrabel who was responsible for preparing the technical and legal dossier, including the choice of investments. But don't tell me that Infrabel will be in charge of negotiating with the European Commission! The aim is to obtain clarification, which is why I allow myself to be a little long in my sobriety. I want a real explanation from the government on how to do it. It is very good to announce productive investments, and I think this government is evolving, at least on this issue. But if it is not to be an announcement without tomorrow, we need more details on the impact, the negotiation with the European Commission. Above all, do we have a real chance of reaching a conclusion on this issue, or will we stick to a statement by Mr Bellot at the heart of the summer, without further follow-up? I would like to remind you that behind this is the whole mobility issue. Ms. Grovonius also spoke about the cost of traffic jams to the community. The first step taken by this government concerns the company car system. However, we understand that you would not be affected by tax privilege, because the most conservative wing of this government, Mr. Van Quickenborne, does not want it to be abolished. This refusal contributes to the widespread pollution of the planet and, in particular, of the Brussels metropolis. Continuing in this direction leads to an impasse. It's the immobility we're looking for. We will see if, tomorrow, an answer will be given to your estimate. In any case, further steps should be taken in this area. Perhaps they will be achieved by another government and another majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u66	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u67	We didn't stay for nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u68	Mr President, I would just like to say to Professor Cheron that, as far as corporate cars are concerned, there is a choice. We defend freedom of choice. In other words, by tomorrow people will be able to decide to keep their vehicle or they will be able to opt for the net salary. It's a free choice. It is worth more than taxing again and again, as you propose every time, Mr Cheron. It's not a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u69	To make a choice, there must be trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u70	No, there must be freedom of choice. It's the most important thing in life!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u71	We need trains!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u72	I am now responding to the Socialist Party's mobility specialist, Mrs Grovonius. The file on the pension of the driving staff, Mrs Grovonius, is a very delicate file. I can speak from experience, because when we implemented the pension reform in 2011, one category had to be excluded from the pension reform, namely the rolling staff on the railways. I understand, of course, that people are asking questions about that. Ticket cutters are also included in the driving staff. Those are the employees who check the tickets on the train. They have a respectful profession, but you have to explain to me why they can retire in 55 years, while the rest of the staff at SNCB retire at the age generally established, all the more so since we have raised the retirement age and aligned it with everyone's pension age for pilots, persons with a high risk occupation during the same period. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals of the Minister of Pensions concerning the operating staff of SNCB, very gradually from 55 to 57 years, and in the long run to 63 and 65 years, are reasonable. I'm being honest. The Minister has shown the courage to do what I have not been able to do in that government. In the meantime, you know why. I do not need to explain much more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u73	Mr Van Quickenborne, why would SNCB's rolling staff actually have special considerations? Just because their work is painful and that's what you're supposed to be discussing, the hard work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u75	Mr Van Quickenborne, don't fall into the caricature! A train attendant has a break working regime, huge schedules amplitudes. He sometimes gets up at three o'clock in the morning and starts with the first trains at five o'clock. Get on and off the train, all the psychological work of safety, find themselves with travellers who spend their time insulting you otherwise because the comfort and investments are not optimal at the SNCB, the assaults of the attendants... All this obviously, we prefer to pretend that it does not exist! So why is this staff entitled to a privileged regime? Because their hard work is sufficient to justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u76	Mr President, this really shows the strangeness of certain political parties in the hemisphere. Do we really think that there is no other category of people working at night in our country? All the people who work at night in the factories, all the nurses and nurses who work at night, all those people who work every night for our society and our economy, all those people retire to 65 years. That is the reality today. Then it is very reasonable to ask also of the ticket cutters, who do indeed have a heavy job, I do not underestimate that, because dealing with travellers is not easy, certainly not with certain types of traveler, to work for up to 65 years, and that not tomorrow, but in the long term, in a few years' time. I say that calmly. I am glad that we finally have a government without a PS for this kind of reform, because that is what our country needed to be able to take that measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u77	That is what I said in my speech. People are being mounted against each other, workers against each other. I have never indicated that the rolling staff, and it does not concern train attendants, was the only one who had to benefit from a preferential scheme given the tenability of their work. Never! People, in any case, who have a hard work that justifies it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u78	Mr President, I am astonished by the reasoning of our colleague, who is talking about raising people against each other. This is precisely the opposite we are doing, we are moving towards greater harmonisation. So today there are only two special schemes for the entire public sector in our country. So we want to put all people on an equal footing, regardless of the regime, whatever department they come from. On the contrary of putting people against each other, we are moving towards greater harmonization and respect for a common rule for everyone. Obviously, it doesn't mean that everyone, whatever their job is, is going to work until the same age. We know that. There are people who have very long careers. I recall that it is 63 years and 42 years of career. Someone who starts at the age of 18 will benefit from the 'long career' criterion and will be able to leave earlier. It's written like this for other workers and in other sectors. It's a general rule. On the other hand, the recognition of penitibility is a new system more modern than the systems of tantèmes, coefficients, the particular systems that affected each other according to a history that sometimes dates back to the nineteenth century. We are therefore moving towards a new system that will allow the social partners to discuss a certain recognition of hardship for certain functions. Not for all the professions concerned but for certain functions which will be recognised as such. At that time, it will be necessary to be selective and to take account of a number of specific trades. But the general rule will be the same for everyone. That's what's targeted today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u79	I would like to answer the questions that have been asked about mobility. Everyone makes the same observation: what you expect from us is to find solutions. I will distinguish between two chapters, the one related to the supply of transport, the one related to the demand for transport. As far as transport demand is concerned, all the actions we want to take, in particular with regard to telework, satellite offices, carpooling and other actions, for which the federal government, in the field of its responsibilities, is trying to find solutions, in particular by adapting the regulatory framework for telework. On the other hand, as far as the supply of transport is concerned, it is a shared responsibility between the Regions and the federal government, since the SNCB is a federal responsibility, and is the structuring axis, in relation to other modes of transport to mobility. However, in our country, there are only 7 per cent of people taking the train. Today, the rate of filling of trains is 25%. There is still potential to be used, with large variations between the big cities and the countryside, since we are nearly 38% of the people who come to Brussels by train. Over the past few months, we have been meeting in the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility. In this context, I have proposed to the regional ministers that they should return to a dynamic of positive cooperation rather than say that the mobility problem must always be solved by the other. We meet every month and a half to bring together solutions. In fact, we have pushed things further as far as the federal government is concerned, since we are involving the Regions in the reflection of investment groups and the establishment of a number of measures. We have also made the same request with regard to the Regions, namely that the Regions should include on the board of directors of public undertakings, federal representatives to make sure that when there is an additional train stop requested somewhere, there are at least a few buses to pick up the people who will get off the train. We haven't received an answer yet at the moment I'm talking to you. As far as the famous billion is concerned, how did we get there? It's through macro-economic analysis. We verified through the public company Infrabel and SNCB that 51% of the burden of this additional debt was covered by variable revenues within the SNCB group. As soon as 51 per cent of the debt can be guaranteed to be covered by a variable revenue, the debt is not consolidated within the public debt. We're always waiting for a lot of things. Ladies and gentlemen, I would nevertheless like to draw your attention to the fact that from 15 December 2016, 72 additional trains will irrigate the entire Brussels urban community. Some will start in the Hainaut, others in the Flemish Brabant, others in the Walloon Brabant. It's not nothing! There will still be six additional trains outside the Brussels Region. I shall shortly appear before the Committee on Infrastructure with all my proposals. I know that there are many expectations at this level. That said, Mr. Cheron has been a long time in his simplicity. I'll try, for my part, to be short in complexity. Indeed, it is a complex matter which I shall present to you and which I shall elaborate on in committee. I explained to you what the priorities were. On the occasion of the presentation of the investment plan, the transport plan, the multi-year investment plan and the business plan, you will have the opportunity to receive any explanations you wish. Finally, I would like to inform you that, within the framework of the digital society, my colleague, Alexander De Croo and I will try to implement the solution that has been adopted in other countries, including the Netherlands. The "Routeplanner" has resulted in a 17% reduction in road congestion in two years. I will not go into the details here, but we have had the opportunity to read the detailed explanations and we intend to go resolutely along this path which will significantly improve the advice given to people who want to move. Next to this, there is the integrated ticketing, the single ticket, but for this it is necessary for the Regions to cooperate with us with a will to succeed. I have, in any case, been able to observe during my contacts with regional ministers that it is sometimes more within companies or administrations that blockages exist than among ministers who have a real will to achieve them as soon as possible. As regards a more ambitious investment programme integrating transport companies at regional level, we will continue our reflection. However, as far as SNCB is concerned, part of the additional billion will be allocated to the ER, which will be financed by different funds. Another part of this amount will be allocated to other investments. Finally, I would point out that the annual investment allocation is roughly 1.3 billion for SNCB and Infrabel and that we will continue to follow this trend in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u80	Are there any lines? Then the chapter is closed. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the chapter on Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u81	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, reading the security aspect of the Prime Minister's statement is quite instructive. The way you build your intervention makes it possible to drown in a big soup what you really did in this matter, what you decided to do in 2016 but that is not yet done and what you commit to do in 2017 but we don't know how yet. I will illustrate my point with several examples. As far as the Canal Plan is concerned, you are telling us that 485 people are now in support of the police areas on the ground. We haven't seen them! The press recently reported the figures for the implementation of the plan and only 40 of the 70 reinforcements expected in September had arrived at the beginning of this month, 16 out of 25 for the Brussels-Ixelles area, 9 out of 27 for the Brussels-North area, of which I am a mayor, and 15 out of 18 for the Midi area. Of the 160 reinforcements expected in the EYP, only about 10 had arrived, while the Federal Reserve had no reinforcements. To this deficit, it should be added that a significant part of the reinforcements deployed in February, some 20 out of 50 in Molenbeek, left the area with internal mobility. It is therefore clear that people who have found their way to the canal have gone elsewhere. We're digging a hole to plug another one. Therefore, I believe that the question of recruitment becomes essential for all of us. It is essential because it directly impacts our policing proximity policy. It is essential because it directly impacts our security, our idea of the universality of public service and also affects the ability of police areas to provide equivalent service regardless of their size. But when we look more closely at the reality in our country, we can say that there are 3,000 police officers missing from the framework in this country. If we compare the recruitment standard since the arrival of your government with what it would have been, with unchanged policy, compared to the Di Rupo government, even with the raise you are announcing for 2017, you are still 400 fewer agents. Despite everything you're announcing, with the savings you've made, you're still 400 fewer agents. You're not filling the agent deficit; you're trying to catch up with the deficit you've dug yourself. But the number of agents is not the only element that we see as a problem. Let us also take the case of police zones! Federal funding for police areas has collapsed since the Michel government was in place. In 2014, 748 million euros were allocated to police areas. Let's look together at what's been done. In 2015, it is 38 million euros less and in 2016, it is 30 million euros less, or a total of 68 million euros less in the financing of the police zone in two years. Of course, the whole question here is how to ensure the safety of our citizens with fewer police officers, fewer police stations or with closed police stations and, therefore, with access to the first security service that is diminished. I would like to conclude my statement on the other announcements you have made regarding the strengthening of the intelligence services. You are announcing, Prime Minister, 146 additional agents to the State Security. All right! But it seems that in 2016, the Sûreté received only 1.7 million euros out of the 400 of the interdepartmental reserve, instead of the 7.3 million that promised it. In 2016, 36 officers were recruited. They will hardly be enough to compensate for the number of overtime hours worked today. Speeches and announcements are important, but it's better to have the actions that go hand in hand. One wonders how you're going to find a way to recruit and train 146 full-time equivalents for 2017, while in order to carry out the current missions properly, the department's management believes that the workforce should be doubled. She speaks of 1,150 full-time equivalents, while at the moment there are only 571 agents. Let us also remember that the number of people to follow in the fight against terrorism has been increased! This is not likely to reduce the pressure on security officers. So I don't have a lot of questions. I have shared my analysis with you and will ask the government not to be content with great security speeches. Security must be a real priority in the budgets. I therefore ask the government to re-establish itself in such a way that all the police services in this country have the means to ensure the safety of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u82	Mr President, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his statement, 2016 was marked by the terrible terrorist attacks that struck our country on March 22. This threat persists, as evidenced by the recent attacks on police officers. This must encourage us more than ever to raise the level of security to which each Belgian is entitled. I am not going to discuss this with Mr Kir, but I obviously do not share his analysis on the Canal Plan. In any case, as far as I am concerned, as far as the municipality of Molenbeek is concerned, the results are positive. I think that the municipality of Vilvorde has also shown satisfaction. And the reinforcements were there. It is true that of the 50 police officers, some left during those six months. But others have arrived. The important thing is that they have been able to strengthen the police, be it the radicalism unit, the intervention brigade, the community police, and have achieved results. In any case, the results are there. I think that this must above all be the subject of an exchange of views in committee. On the other hand, I would say that, on the contrary, this majority is aware of the importance of the fight against terrorism, which has profoundly affected us, and has therefore provided our security and intelligence services with new tools. You are talking about the police force, but there are also about 20 measures that have been announced by the government and have already been implemented. And for 2017, other measures are presented. There is first of all the "law cameras" that needs to be changed. It has already undergone adaptations. Certain points need to be resolved, in order to respond to certain silences of the law, to adapt to technological developments and to the reality of the field. The Police Function Act also needs to be amended to regulate the use of cameras by the police in their administrative police missions. I believe that, in accordance with the government agreement, following the evaluation of private safety regulations, the development of new legislation needs to be finalized. Finally, we are all aware here that the threat remains significant and that we are still at level 3. There must be a genuine consensus in this House so that the reforms undertaken can continue. We must continue to support the security and intelligence services in their full engagement and in their daily struggles. We must realize the budgetary resources available to them within the framework of the counter-terrorism envelope. It can be seen that the sharing of information between administrative and judicial authorities has evolved considerably over the past two years. We must continue to do so. The issue of data banks remains to be resolved. These must be part of the modernization momentum of the iPolice project. There is still the question of the reinforcement of the police force, but also of all the provisions that I have mentioned and which need to be implemented quickly. It is the work that awaits us for this year and on which the minister will certainly have the opportunity to explain a great deal. Indeed, these reforms must be continued. We must continue to support our police and security services, and we must continue our efforts over the past two years in this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u83	Mr Minister, first of all, the Channel Plan which you have proposed and which has entered into force has finally brought about a situation which had become distorted for decades. I would like to congratulate you on the first cautious results that have been achieved. Much remains to be done, but at least it could be a blueprint to work in other places as well. I have the next question for you, and you know that our country is bigger than the canal region. I have taken note of your plans to equip, among other things, our main roads and also cross-border roads with camera dynamometers with license plate recognition. You are doing this together with my fellow Members from the region. You want to build a large national camera shield. That is a very good thing. As mayor of a city centre, I can also welcome that. However, the exchange of information with France should greatly improve. I am talking about border crime, ramcracking, carjacking, homejacking. We are currently developing a camera shield in West Flanders that works well, but there is one thing missing, namely the exchange of information with France. We should get from France the license plates known to the French police and security services. I'm talking about stolen vehicles, healed vehicles, vehicles that get noticed. If we had that information, we could prevent these vehicles from happening, and we could also take much more active action against the problem of border crime. What about the roll-out of the famous national camera shield? What's the timing? What has been determined with regard to the exchange of information with France, among others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the Canal Plan, Mr Kir, some of the elements of what you have just said are correct. We have some problems filling the cadre of 120 police officers with the forces currently available. That's clear. The mobility system is such that people can be forced to come, but they leave this position as soon as possible. That means we have to constantly look for other people, we have to use HyCap. You are absolutely right to say that between the start of the plan and May 2017, this difficulty will persist. But as I told the mayors, in May 2017, we will have a whole group of trained police officers, who can be truly dedicated to the Canal plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u85	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for his correction and objectivity. The figures announced by the Prime Minister do not correspond to what has been achieved. So, earlier, the aim was not to create a controversy, but to re-establish the facts. I hope in any case that you will find a technical solution so that the people who will be assigned under this counter-terrorism programme can be attached to the police zone. You also announced this at the meeting you had with the various mayors. If you don't mind, I'll ask you a further question about the Canal Plan. One of the problems of the Canal Plan is that we are busy killing Brussels economically. There is a feeling in Belgium that the problem is limited to the Brussels-Capital Region. We're also talking a little bit about Vilvorde, but basically it's in Molenbeek and a few other Brussels municipalities. Supported by other mayors, I asked you at this meeting whether it was possible to extend this plan to all entities in the country affected by the problem. It is known that radicalism that leads to violence and terrorism does not stop at the limit of a commune. I gave you an example of what Mr. Tobback had launched when there were problems in the neighbourhoods in the early 1990s. He had launched the well-known security and prevention contracts, which he had organised throughout the country, by contractualizing the relationship between the Ministry of the Interior and the communes. You told me at this meeting that you were going to study this lead, to see if it is not possible to consider the problem, since we know today that the problem arises. You mentioned a city in Flanders where there was also a problem of radicalism. I'm not going to talk here about Verviers, Antwerp or other cities. Compared to the image of the capital, it would be a mistake to constantly point the capital in communications. It has become essential to talk about a national plan to combat terrorism that is not limited to the borders of certain Brussels municipalities, to which we add Vilvoorde. It is really essential if we want to give economic breath to the Brussels Region, if we want it to radiate in the world, to avoid stigmatizing it. Could you answer the question of the extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u86	I had just started my answer, and then Mr.Kir's speech is much longer than the beginning of my answer. As early as May 2017, we will be able to solve the problem at the level of the Canal plan, you are absolutely right. I wouldn't say the 120 aren't here. But I would say that they are not here every day because of mobility. You're talking about a shortage of 3,000 policemen. You are right: there is a shortage at the federal and local levels. For the federal level, we take initiatives, decisions, we implement them. For this year, we will reach the commitment of 1,600 police officers–inspectors. This will also concern other ranks: Commissioners, Chief Inspectors, and others, but here I am referring to the rank of Inspectors. For next year, 1,400 will be committed, and for 2018, again 1,400. With these commitments, we will increase the federal level by 1,200 units. That's almost half the number you just said. With regard to police endowments, this has already been discussed on several occasions. I think we'll talk about it again in the future. You know well that in the government agreement, and I don't think that will change in the course of the legislature, it was said that this staffing system would not be changed. We're not going to re-evaluate the KUL standards. We could do it, but with a closed envelope, it's hard. It was a political decision, which we can criticize. If the PS comes to power, I am sure that the KUL standards will be applied and the endowments for the areas will increase infinitely. I'm convinced of that. I don't have the numbers in front of me, but there are several staffing elements. I think you just named one system. So, if you agree, I'll give you the numbers with the different staffing systems for the areas. This is not a huge increase, but every year, the overall amount increases. I'll give you the numbers. As far as State security is concerned, it is the competence of Mr Geens, but it is an interdepartmental allocation. Decisions are being implemented: markets, commitments, etc. So in the accounts, you don't see these figures yet, but for my department, I know that before the end of the year, we can decide for all these markets. And I am convinced that the same will apply to Mr. Geens. I therefore invite you to assess all this on 31 December, but not in mid-October. Mrs Schepmans, thank you very much for your encouraging words. I think we're working very well together in your commune. I am convinced that we must continue these efforts. As far as the camera law is concerned, you know very well that it has already been passed to the government at first reading. She is now on the Council of State for advice. It will return to the government table before being presented here in Parliament. For the Private Security Act, too, the draft is almost finalized. I'll be able to introduce him to the government soon. We're almost ready. Regarding e-police, this is very important for the local and federal police. Markets are under way. In the next two or three months, I think we can award these contracts to finalize this very important project. I thank my colleague Alexander De Croo, for working together to carry out this enormous project, the digital or digital e-police agenda. Mr Van Quickenborne, with regard to ANPR cameras, the market survey is ongoing. Tenders are awaited and a decision should be taken on this by the end of this year so that the system can be implemented. I would like to add that this is not just about the cameras, but that we will also install a federal server so that the provincial servers, which are now being installed everywhere, can be connected and we can make available the data that we decide on at federal level throughout the camera network. You are 500 % right when talking about the exchange of information with France. On the other side of the country, with the Netherlands and Germany, this is much easier, but in France there is some reluctance to exchange data in this area. We are in regular contact with the Ministry of the Interior of France to see if there is any evolution in that. I am convinced that this is much needed to tackle border crime in your region, but also in Hainaut. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u87	What about my last question on the extension of the Channel Plan, Mr Jambon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u88	As I have told you on several occasions, I know that there is a risk of stigmatizing Brussels with this plan. Remember the circumstances in which we started it. At that time, the entire international community said that there were problems in Molenbeek and Brussels. We had to put in place an action plan to reduce risks. This plan has given us a huge experience and my goal is to share it and export it to other cities and municipalities that face the same problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u89	May I take it that your answer will lead to the extension of the Canal Plan in 2017 to other cities and municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u90	No, I didn't say that because we would need budgets. However, I would like to share successes and failures with cities and municipalities in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u91	I would like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister and the government as a whole. This is an essential question for the image of Belgium and its capital. It is a mistake to talk all the time about the Canal Plan, the Terrorism Plan and to imply that this problem is specific to certain communes. We know that the problems are international and that they do not stop at the border of a commune. It is important to have a national plan and avoid pointing the finger at a region, a capital. I really invite members of the government to support this idea of extending the Canal Plan and making it a national plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u92	If there are no more replies, the Home Office chapter is closed. We shall now proceed to the chapter on Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u93	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the State of the Union is an annual speech on the state of the country. In fact, it must be optimistic and motivating, especially to meet the challenges for the future. This speech should address what people think is important, which people are awake to, and above all should call for joint action. What are people up to? If I may believe The Importance of Limburg, they are mainly afraid. Fear of their retirement, jobs and livelihood security, security, Islam. Fear if they can still pay for their health care. But also fear of refugees. Apparently, the tactics of recent years are working well, to scare people and to stop them believing in the feasibility of society. But let's face it, this doesn't bring much long-term solutions. According to our parliamentary teacher, Mr De Roover, it is all economics, nothing but economics. And I'm sorry he's not here anymore. However, I have also heard and learned that economics is mainly psychology and that this is much related to trust. Trust in society, trust in fellow man, trust in the future. One of the reasons why people with us have a lot of savings and don't translate it into shares is because they no longer have confidence in the banks. They do not dare to spend it either, because they do not know what the future will bring. That's economics, too. In his speech, Mr Dewael strongly called for future challenges to be addressed. As an example, Ford Genk was cited, where government, private partners and many stakeholders in Limburg have worked together to solve a number of problems. I keep this introduction because I am very surprised that nothing has been said about asylum and the reception of recognised refugees, except on the verge, when it comes to the Channel Plan and something related to terrorism. Nothing has been said about a common asylum policy at European level. Last year, the Prime Minister in his State of the Union said: "We are in favour of a European dispersal plan." Nothing has been said about it this year. In the meantime, it appears that we are facing a terrible situation in Greece. Europe does not keep its promise to spread 160 000 refugees from Greece and Italy across the European Member States. Belgium likes to go to Hungary, because that country does not want to participate in the distribution plan. But what have we done? We have included 182 refugees from Italy and Greece. Belgium brings down the European figures. Europe is doing badly, but Belgium is also a poor pupil in Europe. Very often we talk about the external borders of Europe. Asylum applicants should be registered at the external borders. Now, Greece is increasingly responsible for the inclusion and registration of more and more asylum seekers. It is now important not to let Greece die, because otherwise Greece will say foert to Europe. If the federal government really wants registration to take place at the European external borders, then the government urgently needs to step up relocation, as promised. Otherwise, we will be jointly responsible for the failure. No mention has been made of the fact that N-VA Secretary of State Francken has strongly addressed and organised the organisation of the asylum shelters in cooperation with civil society and with a number of municipal authorities that have taken on their responsibilities. I'm thinking Ghent, Genk, Kortrijk and Kapellen. Nothing has been said about the fact that the distribution plan for asylum seekers has been delayed so long that it simply could or should not be applied anymore. The local authorities that have taken on their responsibilities after the appeal of Secretary of State Francken are actually screwed. Nothing has been said about the second and probably the most challenging phase, in particular the integration of recognised refugees. Recognized refugees are people from whom we say they are rightly refugees. They're people on the run, but we're not doing anything for them. We recognize them and we let them go. Mr Dewael, if all the actors work together and make a plan, I am sure that we can bring this difficult exercise to a successful conclusion, sometimes with a lot of conflicts and discussion. I am thinking of partnerships with local authorities and local actors and with civil society on housing, integration, language, jobs and living wages. Government and private. What are we doing? We are discussing the ban on peasants for a summer. Parliamentary teacher De Roover has asked for concrete proposals. I'd really like to go into that invitation. Sp.a has put forward a proposal on the distribution plan of recognised refugees: 20 000 refugees spread across 600 municipalities in Belgium, bring everyone together and work together to help people who we have recognised are in need. I made a simulation. Most municipalities had to receive between 100 and 150 people, Antwerp 950. However, this was blocked by the majority. They say that it cannot be imposed. What, however, do I see now? In Germany, however, a residence obligation is installed. I believe that Germany is a member of the European Union and must also respect the international conventions that we must respect, but the government does not say anything about them. An internal note from the Flemish government states that it has little vision and gets the needs. It may be appropriate to sit with the sub-governments and reflect those needs. Just to be clear, if you don't want that distribution plan, no problem for me. It's a political choice. If you choose anything else, no problem, but you cannot choose not to pursue a policy. You need to look at reality. I've pulled some numbers. Mr Secretary of State, I know you will answer that this is not the city council of Antwerp. That is true, but when we look at reality, we see that these recognised refugees are mainly travelling to Brussels and Antwerp. I've got numbers for Antwerp. If the current trend continues, there are 8 000 applications for integration for 2016. Eight thousand! This means for Flanders a municipality full, a typical municipality. Of these, 1 000 are from Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq. What are we facing? We are faced with an OCMW chairman and ships from Housing of N-VA who says they do not want to go to Antwerp because Antwerp is full. At the same time those people come in through the back door. The people we ask would make efforts to integrate. They're being countered on all sides. They don't get a housing premium that they're entitled to and which, by the way, is paid back by us, the federal government, to the local authorities. That's deliberate unwillingness, conscious ostrich politics. Unfortunately, Minister Borsus is no longer here, but he made a proposal this week to provide additional support to OCMWFs for the assistance of refugees. The Prime Minister's policy statement does not say anything about this. For the record, people are awake from migration and refugees. The federal government should also be woken up to that, simply because if we do not accept our long-term responsibility with the Communities and the Regions, the bill will come back to us and this through living wage. I believe that certain communities and regions are not concerned about this and are actually encouraging it. I come to the cost of the asylum crisis: are they in the 2017 budget or not? For 2016, Europe had allowed a flexibility clause to exclude the costs of asylum and terror from the budget. I have no idea now, but perhaps you could give me an answer to the question of what is being done about it? I read, but it may be wrong information that this still applies to terrorism but not to the asylum crisis. At first glance that seems logical because the asylum influx has stopped. We also note the dismantling of the reception network. However, we are lagging behind. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless still has nearly 17 000 files. That's the highest working stock since 2005. It has only been a few months since that delay was bit by bit nibbled away, 1600 in five months. It is quickly, faster than we expected, and that is mainly due to the new legal officers at the Commissariat. However, there will still be a strong influx and it will continue for a while. Of course, this will also affect living wages, the IGO, guaranteed child benefit and so on. Those legal officers must also be kept in service. Mr Secretary of State, Prime Minister, where can we find that in the budget, in the budget for 2017 or outside?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u94	Mrs. De Coninck, you seem to have heard a different policy speech than I have. The Prime Minister did indeed give a speech with a number of passages on asylum and migration. He made it clear, among other things, that it remains important to manage the asylum crisis. I believe that we have managed it well so far, because everyone has always been given bed, bath and bread, even in the difficult winter months. That was different in the past, you know that. He also referred to European migration policy. I believe that this week the Prime Minister has a meeting of the European Council on Thursday and Friday on which this issue will be discussed. The question is how we can better monitor Europe's borders and how we can make the European asylum system more efficient. As you know, a number of European judgments on Greece, Italy and Hungary make the Dublin system de facto inapplicable. This creates large gaps in the network and a lot of resentment among European partners. You also know that the flexible solidarity mechanism will be discussed among the Heads of Government in the coming days. Mr Juncker has instructed the Socialist Prime Minister of Slovakia, who is the President of the European Union, to draw up a proposal as some Visegrad countries continue to refuse to apply the compulsory quota system. They even went to the European Court for this. As you know, Belgium has approved this compulsory quota system. We believe that solidarity should work in both directions because one-sided solidarity does not work. The Visegrad countries, however, continue to oppose this quota system with great determination and determination. Some even organize referendums where they don't quite manage to make it home. They have now been given the mandate to make their own proposals. I had an interesting meeting with the Slovak ambassador this afternoon. I must say that we are very much looking forward to Slovakia's proposal on a flexible solidarity mechanism. I must confess that, frankly, I don't see that as a good thing. How, on the one hand, can we refuse a compulsory quota system, but, on the other hand, can we make an effort? Let us be honest: everyone has to cope with a part of the asylum crisis. It would be totally unjustified to ask our inhabitants to receive so many tens of thousands of refugees and the Eastern European Member States should do nothing in this area. This would be particularly unjust. I also recall that the Prime Minister has repeated the central thread of this government: we are gentle on the vulnerable, but we will also be hard on those who abuse our hospitality. I remember those words from the Prime Minister very well. That is the central thread of this government and, if I am not mistaken, it has recently become the central thread of your party. I come to your comments on the distribution plan or the quotas we have to meet. We are making efforts to achieve these quotas, although I must admit that this is not obvious. There are a number of practical reasons for this. In Greece the relocation has only really started in recent weeks. We have done a new pledge for 200 asylum seekers for Greece and 100 for Italy. In the coming weeks I will look into whether we, especially for unaccompanied minors, will not be able to make an additional effort in the coming months. There are several thousand people trapped in Greece, which is a very difficult humanitarian situation. That effort is absolutely necessary. I'll discuss them within the government, too. I am in favour of the idea of an additional relocation from Greece for unaccompanied minors before 1 January 2017. I hope we can get the file through. You note that there is still a great deal of delay on the CGVS. That's right. It is equally true that we have recruited more than 300 employees. Every month we also deal with more and more files. I started with about a thousand files a month. We are now dealing with two thousand dossiers per month, which the CGVS can deal with thanks to the additional efforts and staff. About half of these files are recognised. Half of them are rejected. Step by step, we have stepped up the effort throughout the asylum crisis. We have played briefly from the outset and have really taken measures with the support of the entire government and the Prime Minister. We are doing this well so far. Is there still a great deal of delay with the CGVS? Yeah, that's right. If there is a sudden influx of 6 000 files per month, then this influx cannot just be re-boned. Staff must be recruited and trained. The function of protection officer involves nine months of training. Those involved really need to have full knowledge of the state of affairs in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, which cannot just happen. An asylum story cannot simply be judged on its correctness and truthfulness. It takes months to train such an employee. You know that, don't you? You didn't explain it any other way. I didn't hear that either, by the way. You say that we do nothing with asylum seekers in terms of housing, integration, language and jobs. We have discussed it several times in committee. We should not imitate the city council of Antwerp. So I will not say it today, but some of the responsibility is, of course, with the Länder. You note that I have to go in consultation. I understand that the Länder have set extra budgets against the problem, but that is not necessarily a debate that should be held here. I am sure they are well aware of what they are doing. Are there any housing problems? Yeah, there are. However, I have always pointed out that I have to deal with my responsibility. My responsibility is asylum and migration, reception, first-line care, a proper asylum procedure and proper treatment. At the moment when someone is discharged and recognised as a refugee, he or she is no longer the responsibility of the federal government but of the Länder. That's the way it is. It can be said that the Länder are not tackling this correctly and that they need to make more efforts, but you should not say that here, but in the Flemish Parliament. That is what your group does with the regularity of the clock. You've been hammering on that a lot. I do not entirely agree with that, of course, but we are not going to discuss it here. You are asking about the costs of the asylum crisis. I think that's a good question. Last year, as you said, we had created some sort of buffer. Europe allowed it. That buffer for the shelter was EUR 350 million. This year it is no longer possible in any European country. What's the deal? There is the phasing-out plan: 10 000 sites are being phased out. We have grown from 16 000 places to 36 000 places. Now we are once again under 30 000 places and we are going to reduce further. I'll be coming to the government with a phasing-out plan 2.0 in the next few weeks. That's a deal. We will have to monitor Fedasil spending week after week and month after month. In part, we can save internal savings by working more efficiently, but it is clear that there is a cost to the asylum shelter overall. Will I receive my 277 million euros if it stays the way it is now? No. It was therefore agreed that the situation should be monitored every month. Everyone knows that reception is a European legal obligation. So it is expenditure that is being spent, but that does not relieve us of the duty to allow the asylum files to flow quickly. That's why these 300 additional staff members at the CGVS are so important, that's why these 60 staff members at the Foreign Affairs Office are so important. Let us deal with files quickly. Mrs Lanjri could not be present because she was apologized, but she asked in the context of a debate on migration to the time limit for treatment. At present, the period of treatment is only 10 months, including the appeal before the Council for Aliens' Disputes. We came from 6 months, which has risen to 18 months at a few weeks' time, and today there is a treatment period of 10 months. So that period is going down strongly again. There must be a proper flow of the files so that people do not remain in the procedures for too long. That was always the pain point in the past. Say after two or three years of procedure it's the applicant's fault. Then it is the fault of the government that does not give an answer in time, and then one has to regularize and so on. Everyone knows the stories of course and knows where things have sometimes gone wrong in the past. Mrs De Coninck, you say that you have tabled a legislative proposal with your group on the distribution of recognised refugees and you are suing that the government has blocked it. However, that is not right. Not the government has blocked it, but the Council of State has turned your proposal into firewood. You did not even have the support of your ideological colleagues from the PS or the Ecolo-Green Group with Mr De Vriendt. You were all alone because, legally speaking, your proposal is simply total nonsense. I'm sorry to put it this way, but the Council of State says that a distribution plan for recognised refugees cannot be introduced. However, a distribution plan can be introduced for asylum seekers, not yet recognised refugees, whose procedure is still ongoing. We did, by the way. You say that I have waited a very long time with that distribution plan, but that is not correct and you know it well enough. It has indeed taken a very long time because, among other things, the procedure at the Council of State took up a lot of time, and when everything was ready, we did not really need it anymore. But that dispersal plan is now in place. The present and future governments can make use of it, because the distribution plan remains in place. We did not need to activate it, because the crisis, the number of asylum seekers, then suddenly fell, partly because of the EU-Turkey deal, which you are also opposed to. You say that the government blocked your proposal, but it is the Council of State that blocked it, and you know it well enough. You then argue that Germany, even a European country, has introduced a distribution plan for recognised refugees. Now, Mrs De Coninck, the Netherlands has also introduced this. But let me take a closer look at the content of these plans, because they are important nuances. Germany has provided that a recognised refugee is entitled to a social residence and benefits, provided that that recognised refugee moves to a particular municipality which the German State undertakes. This is also the case in the Netherlands, because a recognised refugee in the Netherlands is granted a social residence in recognition, provided that he moves to live in the social housing designated by the Dutch state. Does your sp.a proposal have the same content? I don't think so. In our country there are 80 000 candidates on a waiting list for a social home. It's Flemings, new Flemings, new Belgians, you name it. If we were to introduce a distribution plan for recognised refugees with the benefit of granting a social home, we would give priority to recognised refugees. I did not think so, however, from the last conversation with your party chairman that that is your party's position. I can, however, be wrong about that, and I shall be glad to hear it from you later. That is the difference between Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. We can only introduce a distribution plan for recognised refugees if there is a link to a social benefit. In the Netherlands and Germany there is also no distribution plan which imposes a certain place of residence. It's actually punishment for what you say. That is why your proposal was not supported by Mr De Vriendt and the colleagues from the PS, because what you are proposing goes a long way. Someone flees Syria with his family, because he has to, pursuit or happiness. He arrives here and is recognized, rightly so. In 98% of the files are recognized by the independent CGVS. From the moment one is recognized, one is a free citizen. One is not a criminal, one has fled. We would then have to oblige him or her to live where, for example in Lubbeek or Leuven. That's your proposal. I can't. The Council of State says that it is not possible to impose a recognised refugee on a place of residence. That would force a free citizen to live somewhere. That's not how it works. I cannot impose that on a Belgian either. What did they find in Germany and the Netherlands? There is a social advantage attached to it. The refugee is not required to live anywhere; only a social residence is assigned to the refugee if he or she moves to a certain place. And that's what they do, because they want that social home. We don't have the luxury of distributing social housing. We have huge waiting lists. That has grown historically. That's not your fault or ours. That's a whole different story. That is why the proposal cannot be accepted. That's how the fork is. There is no immediate solution to that either. If there was a solution to this, I am convinced that they had long gone beyond the party boundaries in the Flemish Parliament, not only now, even when we were in the government together, which was not so long ago. I must honestly say that what you say needs to be highly nuanced. I think I have answered everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u95	Mr Francken, I am absolutely convinced that we need to step up our efforts towards integration and housing. Last week, moreover, the VVSG sent a clear signal that the situation in this area is very problematic. If we do not give refugees opportunities for successful integration in the areas of housing, employment, language and integration, then we will have radicalisation in the long term and not integration. Moreover, you will cost a great deal of money financially and economically. Whatever you say, you can turn around. The Council of State has said that a distribution plan can be introduced if a social advantage is attached to it. Our proposal said that the people who offer themselves to an OCMW in order to gain a social benefit can be spread across our country. What's the alternative? Will you allow them all to go to a limited number of places, and in reality is that Brussels and Antwerp are not able to organize the necessary guidance, where there are not enough schools, where there is not enough housing? The reality today in Antwerp is that families with 5, 6 or 7 people live in a small room. Take a look at the reality in certain neighbourhoods in Antwerp. If you think that's how you give people opportunities for integration and self-respect, forget it. You yourself say that the sub-governments and Flanders are not doing enough about housing. That's pretty important. That is the basic requirement for a good integration of adults and certainly of children. I said in my speech that there might be a better plan. You're welcome to work that out. I just made a proposal to make it workable. You also see how many refugees will be recognised. You could perfectly conclude cooperation agreements with the Regions and the Communities, prepare integration and take initiatives to facilitate this. After all, you are taking the initiative for cooperation agreements on many other matters. We're involved. We are responsible from the federal government for the OCMW's and the OCMW's policy. We are an actor in local social policy. So there is an input that makes it possible. In reality, many local authorities, for example in Kortrijk, are making a lot of efforts, through volunteers, through civil society organisations, to better integrate people. I see that also in Kapellen, for the record, I see that in Ghent, but I do not see that in the places where it is most necessary, quite the contrary. The way people talk about refugees and deal with refugees recognised by their N-VA Secretary of State can no longer be used. Take responsibility. You can't say it's someone else's jurisdiction. You are in the same party together and you have the ambition to lead this country. Then accept your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u96	Mrs De Coninck, as is often the case, you talk all the time about the issue of debt securities which are not mine. Anyway, if I have to, I'll answer it. We are not competent for that, but indeed, they are people of my party. All right, I want to discuss this with you for hours, but I thought this was going to be about the 2017 budget and about our Prime Minister's State of the Union. Anyway, no problem. Let me come to the essence. You say that the Council of State has said that the proposal of sp.a to spread recognised refugees across the territory of Belgium can and that it will pass the legal test if a social benefit is granted. That's just the essence of what I said. I fully share your analysis. There's a problem. In itself, it is not healthy for the precious fabric of a society that those people, at the time they are recognized, all live in certain districts in certain cities. We opened an asylum centre in Lubbeek. The outflow's starting now. But many of these families don't want to live in Lubbeek. They're okay. No problem. But they're not interested at all. They want to go to Antwerp or Brussels. To Leuven, too. To Mechelen. But they're not interested in Lubbeek. They don't want to live there. That's not healthy, of course, because then everyone comes together in certain neighbourhoods. We have already seen what that can lead to. That is not always negative, but that really puts the social fabric in certain cities under pressure. Everyone who comes from the city knows better than me who comes from the countryside. So I share your analysis. The only question is what your solution is. How do you do it? How do you solve it? You had a proposal that the Council of State says was not possible unless it is linked to giving a social benefit. That is interesting, but then my question is what social benefit you will give to refugees that you will not give to people who are also entitled to social benefits. That is, of course, the essence. The Germans and the Dutch have said that as a social advantage one can give a social home. This advantage can be linked to the obligation to live in a particular municipality. That's how one can spread out. I would say that I am not prepared to do so. I would find it irresponsible to do so, given the current problem of social housing, where some people have been waiting eight to ten years for a social home. If people who are here for eight months are given a social home, that would have a counterproductive effect. That would make people turn away. What social benefit would you give? Answer that. You're filing a bill. I'm saying it's not legal. You say that it is legally possible, but that there must be a social benefit. What social benefit? A social home? Any other benefits? An extra benefit? You name it. The creativity is probably infinite. What social benefit does the sp.a want to give to recognised refugees that it does not want to give to disadvantaged people who have perhaps been waiting for that social benefit for years? I find that difficult. You understand that, too. It's not obvious. It's hard to sell. That is why we have decided not to do so. You say that insufficient efforts have been made in terms of integration and integration. This is not the parliament for that. I have never said that these governments are making insufficient efforts. I think everyone's doing a lot of work. I am glad that the Walloon Government is now saying for the first time that there should be a course d'intégration obligatory. I've been saying that here for eight years, Mrs. Onkelinx. The MR might have been saying that for 20 years. An integration journey, isn't it, Mrs. Onkelinx? Mandatory? Hard... willing, but we don't have any money. We don't have any money. That's the P.S. Magnette gave a big interview, in which he made the turn. Mr Magnette finally proposed the compulsory integration route. I was happy! We are now eight months later, and I have not yet seen the route of the French-speaking community government, Mrs Onkelinx. There wouldn't be any money for it. I'm still waiting for the step I think should be taken. In France, the PS is long gone. When I hear Mr Valls or Mr Hollande, who have evolved, they are three passages away. Anyway, I'm expecting the ripening of the minds of the PS. Foreigner's right to vote, though. Expanding alien voting rights, that's the PS, that's what we need to do now. You live in a different reality. Another reality, Mrs. Onkelinx. Another planet. 25 years of PS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u97	This subject is intriguing and the way in which people are being staged about something that people are awake to is embarrassing. For the sake of clarity, Mr Francken, you have said that you want to add a social benefit to it. You quoted Germany, where it was solved by adding a social advantage to it. To make it understandable to you, I used the same thing. For the sake of clarity, the European Court of Justice has said that there should be no social benefit but that, if the objective is better or easier integration, it should not therefore be a material benefit, for example for subsidised protected persons, and can impose a territorial restriction. I regret that you have to end up again with a caricature and some criticisms of the PS. I have tried to raise an issue that concerns us all in an objective way. I've done that a few times. Maybe we should think creatively. I even said it might not be the answer. But one thing I know for sure, you don't want to link the benefits of housing to it, and the reality is that you're hunting people down the street without housing. In the long term, we will all pay a price for this. You don't want to face reality. Perhaps you will be no better than the previous governments, for which you are always so critical. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u98	We may be able to discuss this, but I am sure that people who come here need a roof over their heads. You can't ignore that, can you? Maybe you should give rent subsidies or other things, if you don't want to create housing. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u99	They refuse them in Antwerp, ma'am. The labour court has condemned the OCMW of Antwerp because it refuses housing premiums that are refunded by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u100	I propose that this discussion be concluded and that we proceed to the chapter on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u101	My foreign affairs questions were addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Reynders. He's not here today, I'm sorry. I will have the opportunity to ask all these questions at a future committee meeting. However, I would like to emphasize the presence of Mr. From Crem, it is so rare, that the fact deserves to be emphasized. So I would still like to ask him a question. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. On his skills, I didn't hear much. I take this opportunity to ask him about his goals for next year, on the order of his next school year at Harvard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u102	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the informal meeting of the Heads of State and Government on 16 September in Bratislava launched a process to make Europe more concretely an added value for its citizens. This summit follows on from various events which, together, gave the impression or feeling that the European Union was going through a crisis going so far as to speak of an existential crisis with the negative vote of our British "friends". My analysis is more nuanced. Yes, Europe shows in its practice a difficulty in implementing decisions that affect citizens in a concrete and rapid manner. How long did it take to create European border guards? How long did it take to adopt the NRP at European level, pending implementation at Belgian level? How long will it take to amend the Posting of Workers Directive? Through these three examples, we see that the Union, i.e. the European institutions and the Member States, is experiencing difficulties in adopting common positions and rules, and even more so in setting them up. The cumbersome decision-making process, the slow practical implementation of the measures, the reluctance of some, alas more and more, States to comply with the commitments made, are the difficulties facing the European Union. This weakness is the source of a gap between the Brussels bureaucratic machine and the needs and expectations of the 500 million European citizens. How to react? Belgium must take its full place as it has since the beginning of the European integration process in this debate. In the MR, we are in favour of a closer union, according to the preamble of the Lisbon Treaty which, I would remind you, said "resolved to continue the process of creating an ever closer union between the peoples of Europe". We want countries wishing to move faster within the European Union to do so without being slowed down by the other Member States. We are in favour, as we must say, of a multi-speed Europe which would not exclude any Member State but which would allow those who wish to do so to move forward more quickly on certain objectives. For example, a number of Eurozone countries must be able to form the basis of a political union. This political union has always scared the United Kingdom. We must now, in a way, succeed in Brexit in the common interest, on the one hand, separation and on the other hand, the redefinition of the rules underlying a new European cooperation. The success of this endeavour may have a positive impact on the enlargement of the European Union. Not all our neighbours are destined to become a Member State of the European Union, but we can define ambitious partnerships with them. This variable geometry integration is intended to strengthen the governance of the eurozone by creating, among other things, a European Minister for Budget and Finance of the euro area. We are also making progress in the euro area in terms of fiscal and social harmonisation, as well as the successful conclusion of the banking union. We must also ask ourselves what role we want the European Central Bank to play. Should it simply be the guardian of the fight against inflation or should it play an active role in economic growth and employment. We want job-creating growth through a strong investment strategy, as our Prime Minister has said on several occasions. Strengthening the internal market, completing the digital and energy market. We want more commitments in the wake of COP 21. The creation of a carbon-free economy must be an issue in terms of technology and employment. Research and development are the basis of this new industrial revolution, that of the 21st century. We want the European Union to play a decisive role in building a regulated globalisation. That is why we are in favour of an active common commercial policy and the adoption of CETA, which is so controversial, not so much within the Union of European Socialist Parties, since there they are all in agreement except one or two parties. The question of European migration can only be resolved by a common and united response. Greece or Italy alone will not be able to meet this challenge. Through physical and financial assistance, States must show solidarity in accordance with our European principles and values. The same applies to internal and external security policies in order to defeat terrorism on European soil, or through military missions within the geographical framework of the European Union. We are at the head of a mission in Mali and have been involved since September 2014 in operations against "Daesh", which I prefer to call "Naz Islamists". Finally, the links between citizens and the European project must be re-established through political action. We want to strengthen the control of European Union policies by the European Parliament and national parliaments, and even by regional parliaments, in a federal state such as ours, but also through education, information, culture and the creation of an area of solidarity, particularly vis-à-vis the South. We are renegotiating the Cotonou agreements. Finally, we want a better communication from the European Union on its action and results. The Belgian government must be a key player in the future and the revival of a European project with values, hope and commitment. It must carry out ambitious but realistic initiatives at the forthcoming European Councils and at the Valette and Rome summits in February and March 2017. Our Assembly will support the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this task.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u103	Mr President, I too have a question for the Pieter De Crem. I'm always happy to see him; he knows that. I have a question for you, Mr De Crem. In the Prime Minister's State of the Union, I read a passage on international policy. We have not talked much about international policy, which is really very unfortunate. I also have a question for Alexander De Croo later. In the State of the Union, I read something about instability in the Middle East. Then I would like to ask you a question about Saudi Arabia. I believe that we should gradually agree that Saudi Arabia is a source of instability in the Middle East and is also an exporter of wahabism, an extreme form of Sunnism, even in Western Europe. I therefore believe that it is high time to review diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia. I've been saying that for a while. I will, of course, ask Minister Reynders the questions again. Let me talk to you about arms trafficking. Arms trafficking is of course regionalized, we know that, but it's a federal agency that guarantees the arms trade, Delcredere. You're the minister responsible for this matter. So, Mr De Crem, I would like to ask you whether you will ensure that Delcredere no longer guarantees arms exports to Saudi Arabia, or will you demand that? I have already asked you a number of written questions about this. You replied to me at that time that Delcredere in fact ensures one or more arms deals with Saudi Arabia every year. We do not think that is really possible. So we ask you to stop it. Saudi Arabia is also bombing Yemen at the moment and is causing a lot of civilian casualties. I therefore believe that we should use all the federal levers we have to ensure that arms exports to Saudi Arabia stop. That's my first question. I have another question for Minister De Croo on development cooperation. We've just heard from Secretary of State Francken. The State of the Union also insists that asylum entry should be reduced. In the light of this, it is recommended that care be provided in its own region. Everyone thinks shelter in their own region is important, but how do you reconcile that, Minister De Croo, with what I see in the budget tables? As of next year, an additional EUR 25 million would be saved each year in development cooperation. Development cooperation is already the government's Bancontact. If you need money, you always come to Development Cooperation. This is already a cumulative saving of EUR 1 billion during this government period. You're in the process of undressing development cooperation. The budgetary tables now again contain an additional saving of EUR 25 million, every year. How can you defend that? What savings are we talking about? Is this about bilateral support? Is this about aid to the least developed countries? Where did you find the new savings in development cooperation of EUR 25 million? These are two very specific questions, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u104	Mr President, I would also like to put a question to the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade regarding the possible CETA with Canada. Mr Secretary of State, you are responsible for foreign trade. You know how important foreign trade is for our country and for Europe. At the moment there is a heavy debate about whether or not to sign that treaty. There's a lot at stake, too. Our country currently has a damaging reputation for not signing the treaty. This is due to the resistance of a region in our country, particularly Wallonia. The government there has decided to make the opposition to the treaty clear. However, this cannot be done without a hit or a hit. After all, I noticed that Prime Minister Magnette was summoned by the Elysée in France. It seems that he has read the levites by the President of France, Mr Hollande, who has clearly indicated to Mr Magnette that this blockade by Wallonia is not possible. Mr Secretary of State, first of all, what is the impact of Canadian imports and exports on Europe, particularly on our country? Can you tell us if there are important Canadian investments in Wallonia? Secondly, have you had contacts with the relevant foreign trade ministers on the CETA dossier? Thirdly, I read in recent reports that Prime Minister Magnette would have received an amended proposal from the European Commission for CETA, and that he is now studying that, I quote, "Let me quote." Do you have any knowledge of that amended draft treaty? Finally, what would you think would be the best outcome for our country in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u105	Mr President, I would like to raise two points. The first in depth, the other in a precise way. My first point concerns a subject which has not yet been discussed today, but which you mentioned yesterday in your statement, Prime Minister. This is the African issue. In my view, this issue is in itself extremely important, and I would like, Prime Minister, to highlight a point in your government policy that welcomes the parties of the majority. Indeed, we have long called for a strategic vision for the African continent. I would like to stress that it is this government, the majority, that has finally presented a comprehensive note on the strategic vision of the policy to be pursued with regard to Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u107	Mrs Onkelinx, your party is teaching morals over time! I like to point out that you have not been able to present a strategic note on an African policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u109	Every time you speak, it is to teach us moral lessons by putting forward what we would not have done. As far as I am concerned, I am glad to tell you that the government of which you have been a member has not been able to draw up a strategic note on African policy. It was this majority that succeeded, Mrs. Onkelinx! You can scream as loud as you want, I think I have a bigger organ than yours! However, this strategy note for the African continent was presented by three of our government's ministers: Mr Reynders, Mr. De Croo and Mr Vandeput. This demonstrates the desire to develop a comprehensive vision and coherent action in relation to Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u110	I know that I will find it difficult to fight Mr Miller's body, but I would still like to clarify this strategic note. This was discussed with the Minister of Foreign Affairs during his presentation. It is good to come now to say that we have at last a strategic vision, but, as I said in committee, we still need concrete measures to be put in place! It's a catalogue of good intentions. Some things are very good, but again, there is a lack of coherence between ministers. We don't see any concrete actions. I take the example of the Defense. This strategic note includes a series of points. How many lines are devoted to Africa in the Minister of Defence's strategic vision? Eleven lines! Then strategy and coherence, we'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u111	I also took part in the proceedings. I heard Mr Crusnière's remark. I also heard the minister's answers to the question he raised. Every time, it's the same thing. Or Mr Crusnière comes and asks for concrete measures and then he is not happy if they are not concrete measures and if it is a strategic vision. Or, when it is a strategic vision, it says that this is not what it takes, but concrete measures. Anyway, Mr Crusnière, there is no problem! You are in your role in the opposition. Whatever the majority does, you will find a way to criticize it, but I see one thing, and I see that all the elements that have been put forward through the strategic note really correspond to the vision that we want to see developed in relation to Africa. I will only point out two points in this note. Today, at some point, we have talked a lot about the different values. Those who respect them and those who do not respect them were mentioned, etc. I see, through the Michel Government's note for Africa, that there really is a willingness to develop an African policy that responds to a commitment to humanistic values that I believe we all respect and want. Of course, it will have to be seen how it will be developed and implemented, but I would like to highlight two main points of this note. First of all, it is a commitment to develop more democracy and to implement everything possible to achieve democracy in those countries, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. But there is also a reflection, a strategy on African economic development which, after decades in which such a policy has not been implemented, will finally guarantee the economic development of African countries with the redistribution of wealth to African populations. It is Africa we want! And that is the policy we want to see implemented. This note contains various principles that have been recalled: involvement, coherence, respect, effectiveness, multi-ateralism. That is true, Mr. Crusnière, there is indeed a commitment at the level of National Defence that is carried by our Minister. There are commitments at the level of development cooperation. Finally, there is another aspect on which I would like to ask you questions, minister. It concerns the most immediate news. It seems that today, an agreement has been signed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to put in place a procedure that postpones the presidential elections to April 2018. This agreement was signed, co-signed by some actors but not by all actors. Minister, how does the government read this agreement that was signed today? I had announced a second point. I will deal with it more quickly than this African point. It is also an aspect to which I am very sensitive. As Mr Reynders is not here, it may be yours, Prime Minister, that I am speaking to you. This concerns the allocations provided for in the negotiations with the artistic institutions in Brussels, the capital to which we are obviously very much committed, and everything concerning the policy in the field of the performing arts in Brussels, given the catastrophic decree which was voted in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. All of a sudden, we feel that confirming and guaranteeing this cultural and artistic activity in Brussels is the federal government. A management contract has been signed. The allocations are guaranteed: these are large amounts for the Royal Mint Theatre, more than 34 million euros; the Belgian National Orchestra, almost 8 million euros; the Palais des Beaux-Arts, almost 12.5 million euros. I am pleased that these allocations are well guaranteed as provided for in the management contract. Thank you for confirming that, Prime Minister. Finally, I would like to ask another question about the performing arts. This is the bill concerning the tax shelter for the performing arts. What's the situation? According to the information, he would be at last reading in the government. We are very attentive to this issue. Finally, through this bill, and the extension of the tax shelter to the performing arts, we will be able to guarantee our country's creators and cultural and artistic operators a new source of funding they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u112	Mr President, here are some of the answers to the questions that have been raised. At European level, Mr Flahaux, we have a regular opportunity in the Committee of Opinions on European issues to take stock of the process in which we stand. You do confirm in this context that we wish to play an active role, as is the tradition in Belgium, in trying to ensure that the forthcoming meetings, in particular that of La Valette, but also that of Rome, are useful for the revival of the European project. Our main concern, as you have expressed, is that Europe is closer to the concrete concerns of citizens in areas of concern and concern to European citizens. I am thinking, for example, of the issues of security, economic recovery and migration; three themes for which we believe that we must try to achieve more visible and operational results. This is the strategy for relaunching the European project, in which, moreover, we are trying to have a very active dialogue, including with new Member States with which it is important to have a sustained dialogue in order to try to share political convictions based on very strong European values that bring together countries around peace, prosperity, security and freedom. That's the idea we want to carry. Without relaunching here the debate that took place in committee on the Africa note, I would say that we consider that we have some points in common with Africa. We believe that we are bound by history and the future. Building on a strategy based on Africa's economic recovery to bring about the emergence of the middle classes, to promote democratic institutions, to support development through economic initiative and trade, is a path in which we want to advocate. We have a strong diplomatic tradition. Our diplomats are perhaps those who know Central and West Africa best in Europe. This is very often seen in European diplomacy, where they very often assume major responsibilities. A word about the DRC. We are, of course, following closely the situation in Central Africa, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I had the opportunity to express a message that I believe is firm in the United Nations General Assembly a few weeks ago, indicating that we are calling for a certain date for elections. We also call for the widest possible dialogue. So far, it has not been sufficiently. The whole opposition is not represented at the table of this dialogue. So, in the European area, together with our European partners, we will continue to monitor the situation closely to encourage full respect for the electoral processes. We also want these elections to be honest, sincere and to guarantee the legitimacy of the institutions that would emerge from the ballot box. We must play a very active role on this point. When we are within the United Nations, within the European institutions, we often turn to the Belgians to ask for their opinion because we have a fine knowledge of the situation in Central Africa. That is also true of other parts of Africa, for example West Africa. I confirm that the amounts you have mentioned are confirmed in terms of the allocations from the federal government for cultural initiatives in Brussels. We also want to move forward on this issue that is very important to us: the tax shelter for the performing arts is a way to boost cultural activity, as we have done for cinema for several years, with great success. In Europe, our country is cited as an example for this initiative. That's a good thing. A few months ago, the government made the decision in principle to expand this useful and effective device for the performing arts. We should be able to validate the texts very quickly, at last reading, in the Council of Ministers, so that they can be brought to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u113	Mr De Vriendt, there is indeed an additional budgetary line with an effort of EUR 25 million on the development cooperation budget. It's on top of the existing trajectory. It is expected that this will ensure that the ODA rate is still slightly above 0.4%, leaving us above the OECD average. You asked where the savings will be achieved, but we are still looking at that. In any case, it will not be on the humanitarian budget. That was higher last year than it ever was and it will remain at the same level. Mr Miller, I think you have asked the question of the crisis in Syria. Last year Belgium allocated a total of 65 million humanitarian aid. We believe that it will probably be the same order of magnitude for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u114	Mr President, in reply to Mr De Vriendt's question, I would like to say the following. We know the role of Delcredere, which is a parastatal government institution set up to provide export credits. Once an application complies with the legal and regulatory provisions, Delcredere, as I have often said in the past, evaluates whether or not an export credit can be granted on the basis of the financial risk in the country of export. That's Delcredere's general approach. But I must stress once again that arms exports are a regionalised issue. The current rules for issuing export licences for arms are a regional competence. This regulation came into force in 2002 after the adoption of a very early democracy under purple-green arms supplies to Nepal. The result was that Mrs Magda Aelvoet was not informed during a break and then left the government. In short, Green was part of the basis of this change. That is the reality. It is therefore up to the regions to define a policy in this area and also to issue the necessary permits. In other words, the regional ministers approve the export licences and are subject to control by their regional parliament. If we were to judge otherwise, I think we would confuse the constitutional and regional powers in this country. I refer to the note from the Court's Legal Service, which I have requested, to clarify this matter once and for all. That note, which was requested on 17 November 2015 by the External Relations Committee, and the cooperation agreement of 17 July 2007 between the federal state and the Regions, are very clear. As far as your questions are concerned, I refer to my written and oral answers which I have already given you on a number of occasions. I repeat that between 2006 and 2014 Delcredere dealt with 93 files on arms exports to Saudi Arabia. No problems were identified with the creditworthiness of the counterparty. That is what I can do in the broadest implementation of my powers. Mr Van Quickenborne, you asked questions about the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. The Prime Minister has expressed his views on this matter today. Mr Reynders is currently and for the next two days, if I am not mistaken, in Luxembourg, where CETA is on the agenda. It is perhaps the only item on the agenda and we will see how things can evolve. You asked my opinion, too. I myself am convinced that, after all the efforts that have been made, the Treaty should be able to be achieved by all means. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u115	Mr Secretary of State, it is actually much worse than I imagined, because you say here that you know perfectly well that arms exports to Saudi Arabia take place year after year. This isn't just about oblivion. I ask you again and again, and you keep saying that you know and that we do arms exports to Saudi Arabia every year. So you know, and you will let it pass if we know what role Saudi Arabia is playing in the world today. You didn't say it, but as Secretary of State, you have a representative on the Board of Directors of Delcredere. If Delcredere can't make any moral considerations and only want to make a financial assessment, then we better abolish Delcredere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u116	(...) then submit to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u117	Mr De Crem, if the opposition really has to solve all the government's problems here and if the government is not in a position to shut down its own business and stop arms exports to Saudi Arabia, then perhaps you should be in the country a little more often to write good draft laws so that we can change something about those arms exports. It's not about observing some kind of moral blindness. Delcredere cannot say that arms exports to Saudi Arabia are a purely financial and technical matter, come on! We read almost every week in the newspapers reports and notes from experts in international politics who tell us in all serenity and calm: remember the diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia. Stop the arms exports to Saudi Arabia. We do not export weapons to Iran! But we do export weapons to Saudi Arabia. I know, you are right on one point: matter is regionalized. But who guarantees regional arms exports? It happens federally. I repeat my appeal: if Delcredere serves to secure arms exports to Saudi Arabia, then abolish Delcredere. We must then create a better instrument, which can at least make a moral assessment of the export of military material. Secondly, with regard to Minister De Croo. Minister, I asked you where you will get the EUR 25 million savings in development cooperation. You say you don't know and you'll look into it with the government. In fact, that is a very poignant answer. This means that you do not rely on efficiency gains that you already see and which you can say you will save EUR 25 million without compromising the quality of development cooperation. No, you decide first the amount, 25 million euros, randomly, at random. I admit it, it's a nice round number, but then you say you don't know where you'll get it, you'll see. That's not good policy, it's not good governance. Should that happen in Congo, we would be the first to point out that this is not good governance. Still, you're doing the same thing. For 2016, a percentage of 0.42% of gross national income for development cooperation was budgeted, which is relatively low. There is still the legal objective to invest 0,7% of gross national income in development cooperation. That objective is still registered in the law by purple-green. We were to achieve that 0.7 % nicely on a route towards 2010 even and towards 2015. However, since Green is no longer in power, that percentage has only gone down. It is very shortsighted to deal with development cooperation in this way. I repeat my statement just now. The department is becoming the Bancontact of the current government. However, if we want to evolve in the world towards more stability, fewer migration flows, fewer refugees and fewer climate refugees to our areas, then we will have to invest in development cooperation. Mr De Croo, your ideas are good. A lot of your reform plans are also good. However, you cannot realize them without a pot of money worthy of that name, to achieve quality, output and results. The current government is constantly putting a little bit of effort on top of it. If money is needed, it comes to development cooperation. That's short-sighted up to and including. I fear that attitude characterises the attitude of the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u118	Thank you, Mr De Vriendt. If there are no other replies, we will go to the chapter on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u119	Mr President, in the field of health care, in the first round we have already had the opportunity to discuss a number of extremely important points. However, I would like to return quickly to some of the issues discussed, on which we will never agree but on which an interpretation of the figures was not entirely correct. Where we agree is that we are talking about 902 million savings. I would like to begin by reminding you that – Madam Minister, you will confirm or invalidate – the INAMI insurance committee had already given an agreement in principle or a proposal for an economy of 666 million at the beginning of October. What we are talking about today is the 229 million additional savings. Of course, everyone has their own interpretation of these savings measures, which are necessary, but I have not heard any comment about the fact that despite these savings, health care spending continues to grow year by year. I did a check. In 2012, we were spending $21,500 million on health care. In 2013, 21 billion 962; in 2014, 22 billion 400; in 2015, 23 billion 126, to reach 23 billion 670 in 2016. The forecast for 2017 is 24 billion 250. So, that is to say that these savings of 902 million are a cataclysm, I want to correct it because I heard it! These are the words of the President of the PS following the Prime Minister's statement. These are Mr Lutgen's words: "We attack patients, the sick." Mr. Di Rupo said it was a disaster for the sick, "we are destroying the country". If that's not the perfect misinformation, I don't understand! I'll give you an example. Your president said we were saving 902 million euros on the patient's back. That's obviously completely wrong. In fact, in these 902 million euros, less than 5% will be borne by the patient. In particular, the antibiotics discussed earlier are concerned. I must say that I was extremely surprised. I spoke transparently, I told the truth, I took an example that I can quote from you. So I said buying Amoxiclav would cost the patient twice. Thus, at present, it pays 1.5 euro for a box. Tomorrow, he'll pay three euros. But this is the only case! It is wrong to say that the price of all antibiotics will be doubled. Do you want examples? I've got it! I could spend the night giving them to you. The pack of 16 tablets of Amoxicillin 500 mg will increase from €0.45 to €0.9. The pack of 20 tablets of Amoxicillin 1 g will increase from 1.89 to 3.76 euros. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u120	I could give you all the examples. You want an even clearer example? I'll give it to you! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u121	But no prices are not doubled! For the most expensive antibiotics, i.e. the new antibiotic classes or those that have recently arrived on the market, the moderator ticket will increase from 12 euros to 14.5 euros, i.e. 2.50 euros more. In other words, the patient will pay another 2.5 euros. There is no longer any question here of a 50% increase. You have made a particular case a generality. This is a matter of misinformation. It was for the antibiotic chapter. Some say that it is not by fighting the use of antibiotics through price that we will solve the entire problem. That's exactly right. But the Minister of Health has also told us that a number of campaigns are underway or coming to raise awareness of the prescriber, in order to prescribe antibiotics, in a reasonable manner. If we are aware of the patient, pointing out that antibiotics are going to cost a little more, I am firmly convinced that the patient himself will make a difference to antibiotics that are overprescribed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u123	I understand very well that it bothers you. I am a little disappointed that the debate is taking place at this time, because, in the end, we would have had more than...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u124	(...) I have prevented you from doing so, I believe...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u125	Not only did I intervene, Mrs. Onkelinx, but I also let you talk!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u126	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u127	You can intervene as you like... Simply, I had the politeness and honesty to let you speak knowing that there were a number of misconceptions... In truth, we also talked about indexing the fee sectors. It is really very interesting: we are told that the action taken now affects the whole sector. But what surprises me is that, in the end, the index in question had already been confiscated in previous years, and in the previous legislature. According to my information, in 2011, we had to have a theoretical index of 1.4%. Finally, the index granted was 0, which means that it was sweet, in a way. It was the same in 2012, when the theoretical index was 2.99%. The index granted was only 1%. And so on, actually, until 2016. So it's not a novelty as such. Of course, these are not habits that must be taken. But don't blame the current government for making this partial index, even though it has sometimes been completely indexed in the previous legislature!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u128	Definitely, Private Thiéry has all the sauces! In any case, know that as far as I am concerned, at no time have I had the situation that you are going to be living now, namely a total rejection of your budget by the General Council, both on the part of the patient unions and the care providers. He's just been turned down completely. On the other hand, you may know, thanks to the policy you are advocating, the Absym has just denounced the tariff agreement. You can start singing Malbrouck, try to defend Mr. Michel, Mrs. De Block. You are in an unprecedented situation, because we have always favoured an increase in resources, support for the development of a policy of quality of health care and accessibility to care. There! You can try to justify as long as you want, the situation is that: the providers, the mutuals, of all colors, have said no to your budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u129	If I may say so, I said we would never agree, but until then, it's only commonplace. The interpretation of the figures must be very careful. We have been denied a total of 229 million so far, not 900 million. You systematically interpret the truth and say that everything has been refused. That's not the case! It's interesting for everyone to know!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u130	Why do you think it was refused? Simply because before Kern, there had indeed been, not a general agreement, but an agreement that had been reached by the small needle chas on the fact that it was about 667 for which it was still necessary to decide on 400 million euros of measures. It is pointless to say that not everyone had subscribed to this. Providers, mutuals had already said no. But even those who had accepted, now say that they are the magnificent cocus because having accepted this, what have they had in return? 250 million more savings to bear! If that's how you support your last supporters in this matter, we won't go very far!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u131	I propose to continue my reflection, which, as things stand at present, may be a little less costed. It is too easy to systematically criticize the initiatives that are being taken. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the minister for her latest initiatives. We have, among other things, spoken of the hospital reform which has raised many questions and, in a way, a lot of criticism. But ultimately, this hospital reform, everyone including the sector will agree that it is absolutely necessary. That is what is fundamental. As part of this reform, a number of initiatives are being taken with the providers themselves and with the hospitals themselves. There is a desire on the part of the minister to include all those who, from close to or far from it, want to participate constructively in this reform. This was explained at a meeting of the Public Health Committee. Through this collaboration with the people and services concerned, we work constructively in the future of the functioning of hospitals that will specialize in specific areas, which will allow for a better quality of care, with the grouping of specialists in this field, all this always in the interest of the patient. Ultimately, this health care policy has not changed since the beginning. As soon as this government was put in place, we wanted, through the minister, to put the patient at the centre of interests and debates. Of course it is. I would also like to point out the reform of mental health care and the reform to support the development of integrated care. And what we are not talking about is that, in the end, most of the savings will be made at this level, of course, the Pact of the Future with the pharmaceutical industry has been achieved, put in place and is beginning to show its first positive effects. Hunting for waste and abuse is probably something that bothers surrounding people, but unfortunately it must be noted that the health care sector does not escape the rule of abuse and waste. It is therefore logical that at a time when we have to make a number of savings in all areas, absolutely all of them, health care is also subject to a specific look that allows savings to be made on one side to perhaps also reinject them on the other, always for the benefit of patients. It can be said that there are two diametrically opposed policies. That of the opposition, which I think is to scare the population, saying: "There are so many additional savings. It is the patient who will pay for it and will have to pay." Ours, on the other hand, is to point out that, despite the savings we are making, there is still an increasing amount in health care spending. This means that we are working and will continue to work rationally for the benefit of the sector, care providers and patients. That is what I wanted to confirm or report in relation to what was said this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u132	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few words about health and disease and about poor and rich people. I will perhaps repeat a few things, but I would like to stress this on behalf of my group. This morning Mr De Roover said here that according to experts, savings can be made without compromising the quality of our care. I think that is a very selective reading of what the experts are writing. For example, Professor Annemans also writes that underconsumption may be higher than waste. Yes, saving may be possible, but only on condition that this saving is re-invested in the same health care, especially where there are high needs. Then I think of psychic well-being, dental care or care after cancer. Almost a third of this government's savings come from the health sector. Il faut le faire, for a minister whose pockets were sewn shut. Colleagues, cutting down almost EUR 1 billion means leaving the very tight growth standard of 1,5%. It also means that health care resources are clearly not being maintained, while we just need investment. Madam Secretary, you are in the process of organizing a two-speed health service. I hope you know what responsibility you take. The savings do not affect the patient. That is the mantra we have been hearing for the third year in a row, but you know as well as I do, Mrs De Block, that these savings affect the patient. Certain medicines such as antibiotics, nasal sprays and antacids are becoming more expensive. The invoice, of the patient, increases by 9%. In the case of antibiotics, this would be sensitising. I am very convinced of all the accompanying measures that the Minister intends to take, and she knows that. We are all in favour of this, and we think that is a good thing. But whoever needs antibiotics has to pay more. That's the point. Another killer is that it is only about small increases. Have you combined all the small and large increases in the federal government and, in our case, the Flemish government over the past few years? Do you know how much these increases have already cost the families? The ceilings, so what one has to pay out of one's own pocket of the maximum invoice, would rise. According to the tables, the proceeds would be EUR 15 million. An invoice of 15 million euros on the cover of precisely those people who have poor health. For the sickness benefit the entitlement would only start after 12 months instead of after 6 months. What about a young person who gets seriously ill at the beginning of his career, for example, gets cancer? Are you going to hunt a new group of extra vulnerable people to the OCMW? Is that the point? What about the tariff agreements? Two thirds of the index for care providers is taken away. Savings in pharmacists, radiologists and clinical biologists. Not a euro for unmet needs. Did this get through to them? Apparently not when I hear the reactions. Will they take this? I'm afraid so. Marc Moens announced the end of the agreements yesterday. We must fear the worst, I think. More doctors are going to deconvention. In the meantime we know for sure because Mr Moens has sent out his press release, there is no agreement anymore. If the doctors want to compensate for what you're taking from them, you'll charge the patient an invoice of 300 million euros, Madam Secretary. However, that is not the end of the matter. With regard to savings in the hospital sector, can you guarantee that supplements will not continue to rise, as in previous years? Last but not least, but for me not least, the district health centres also have to turn in. You save 7 million euros on the most accessible form of healthcare. You're gonna get the most vulnerable people hit. But the patient won't feel it. How cynical can it be? This afternoon, by the way, we have learned that there is no majority in the general council of the RIZIV to approve the health budget for 2017. I'm afraid you're overplaying your hand with the sneaky millions of savings in health care. All the partners in the board, including the doctors, smell trouble, and rightly so. It's gonna hurt the patients, no matter how much you say otherwise. In fact, I would also like to know what details will become known about some other savings that have been built on loose sand. I am thinking, for example, of the EUR 100 million from the partnerships between hospitals. You are announcing a number of pilot projects for next year, and you are also counting on them very much: EUR 100 million for networking between hospitals. According to a number of mutualities, this networking, of which we are in favour of clarity, will only save in a few years. So it's windowdressing. All this is opposed to the one who is struggling in life: the man or woman who has to live on a benefit, or a small wage, Madam Secretary of State. The chronically ill too, and especially all the families who are having a hard time. After all, it seems as if the government parties are hard of hearing on the left when it comes to the fight against poverty. Apparently, on the right, the hearing is still fine. You have the nerve today, on the World Day of Resistance to Extreme Poverty, to announce through the budget agreement that only 75% of the wealth envelope will be used to adjust lower incomes. You will undoubtedly say that this has happened before. That's right, but there wouldn't have been an index jump by then. You also ask unemployed young people to accept jobs that are paid below the minimum threshold. The rents for those young people do not fall below that threshold and the lifespan increases. Young people will therefore no longer be able to stand on their own feet with their first job and will stay longer in hotel mom. Spanish and Italian situations, thanks to the so-called stimulus of this government. Meanwhile, poverty is rising. An important lever in the fight against poverty is social security and social assistance. The Government Declaration, the Policy Letters and the Federal Poverty Plan until 2019 focus on increasing social minima in the fight against poverty. However, Mrs Sleurs, the federal poverty plan does not contain a roadmap for achieving these humane minima. And now there is another EUR 0.0 in the budget. Yesterday, Prime Minister, you sang the freedom of all Belgians. You even brought Nelson Mandela in. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is no freedom for those who are poor. For the mom who wonders if she will be able to pay the doctor for the little one tomorrow, freedom is becoming a very cynical concept. You should have thought about that before sending this table full of cold figures to the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u133	Mr President, much has already been said here, but I would like to point out that the measures already planned within the Insurance Committee are mainly about savings in the pharmaceutical sector through the Future Pact and about savings through our Plan Enforcement, which we want to address inefficiencies and abnormal prescribing behaviour. Mr Thiéry, our budget for healthcare is indeed comparable to other countries at 10% of gross national product. It will also continue to grow, even with savings we will spend half a billion more on healthcare next year. At the same time, we are reforming, saving and eliminating waste and inefficient use so that we can also take new initiatives. I recall the fact that money was never found for the reimbursement of hepatitis C medication. From 1 January 2015, we are already paying back this medication, and that will be extended. I would also like to remind you that we have given a very large injection of mental health care, including a department that has always been underbudgeted. We always realise the savings and reforms with the patient in mind. As far as the hospital sector is concerned, we are accelerating the implementation of the reform of the hospital landscape. This reform is one of the most important that we are doing. We will first set the rules for a networked operating model. I will consult with the federated entities at the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference and plan for hospital needs. Allow me to say a few words about the over-capacity of beds, to which there has been a reaction with panic-mongering. The MAHA study shows that in 2014 the paediatric beds were only 49 % occupied and the materiality beds were 53 %. In the meantime, hospitalization time has fallen further. I therefore believe that there is a problem here and that we can take action in this area. I would also like to remind you that every year we pump EUR 7 billion into our hospitals. OECD figures show that in Denmark, where reform is already under way, there are 3.1 beds per 1 000 inhabitants. In Belgium there are 6.3, more than double. I believe that something can be done about this. When we look at the length of stay, we find that in Denmark, where there is also a good quality of health care, it is 4.3 days. In Belgium this is 7.9 days. I think there's still a lot of work to be done. Furthermore, the antibiotic measure should be considered in conjunction with the fact that 10% of the cheapest medicines will have to be prescribed. So the price for the patient will fall here. More thought needs to be given to the use of antibiotics, which are taken too easily. We've been sensitizing for years. We will monitor the prescription behaviour of doctors more closely, and we will also draw the attention of patients to the fact that taking antibiotics is actually bad for health. I also said that one third of the index mass can still be spent. It can also be agreed how it will be distributed. During the vote in the General Council there were 10 in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention. I call that a strike, not a total rejeté. It would have been easier if the General Council had agreed, but now the initiative is on the table again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u134	I think the members of the government voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u135	There are also others who voted in favour. Five. With regard to the increase in the index by a third, it is possible to agree on who will receive this increase in the index. This is, of course, done in consultation. Mrs Jiroflée, that consultation will also take place. You're too fast. Mr Moens announced that he was considering abandoning the agreement. However, he also asked for a meeting. That conversation is, of course, allowed to him and will take place this week. I hope we will have a positive talk. With regard to medical homes, I should like to remind you that in recent years the budget for medical homes has increased by 10% a year. There is nothing in itself against the fact that a further EUR 10 million is added to that budget. We already have EUR 150 million a year. A further 10 million euros will be added in 2017. We will also do an audit, as we did for the guards. That has taught us a great deal and has greatly improved the quality of the sentries that are now in existence and which have to meet certain conditions. The audit will also cover accessibility and continuity of care. We'll do the same audit for the medical homes, which will make the difference between the houses that really work a lot for the people that care for them, and the houses that do less well. The audit is an objective way. Optimization of resources is also needed. Eventually, the medical homes are heavily subsidised. There's a place for those houses. However, we must look at how we will continue to deal with the increases in the future. The MAF or expenditure threshold is indexed. Income thresholds are also indexed. That makes sense, even though it has not happened since 2002. This will not put people in trouble. If their income increases, the expenditure threshold of the MAF is now also increasing. That seems to me to be the logic itself. The things that are no longer reimbursed are all things that have been established as evidence based on the fact that they cause enormous expenditure, while sometimes they do not work, sometimes make health worse and sometimes also cause addictions. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, I would like to point out that we are still making a great deal of effort. Mrs Sleurs will be able to agree that, in the course of 2017-2018, we will be able to pay another half a billion euros more through the welfare envelope based on the keys given by the social partners. That is a good thing. I know, saving isn't easy, reform isn't easy. I've always told you that Social Affairs is my dream department, but there really must be intervention. That's what they've been saying for years. There's a lot of money going to our health care. If we continue to deal with the budget in this way, we cannot guarantee the same quality, continuity and accessibility for future generations. I don't want to bear that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u136	Mr President, it is true what the Minister says that some of the savings had already been discussed in the Council, which both doctors and the mutualities have agreed with great difficulty. This proves once again that it should have been. Another saving on care, just to close the gap in the budget, was a bridge too far. This is now clearly apparent from the vote, which is clearly noted in the press release of the doctors. It was just a bridge too far. Just getting most of the savings in health care, I don't have any words for that. It's beneath everything, as far as I'm concerned. I would have liked to see all the good intentions that Mrs De Block has and which I acknowledge, such as monitoring and sensitizing certain sectors, looking together with the sector at rationalization, that she would follow the opposite path. I would have preferred her to do that first and then document the outcome. But no, so much has to be found now, and it is used as an excuse that we will rationalise a little. That's the opposite way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u137	I believe that we can conclude this chapter and move on to our last chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given the late hour, I think I will not be long. I will concentrate on three points: the harmonisation of schemes, the purchasing power of pensioners and the generalisation of supplementary pensions. The harmonisation of pensions is equity between workers. Harmonizing different pension systems is an act of fairness and justice. This is what is being sought by the reform of the last two special public sector pension schemes, namely those of the military and those of SNCB's rolling staff. Their gradual alignment with that of other workers is obviously a logical measure. We assume this logic of raising the pension age. As you know, all the other workers were invited to work longer. It was not acceptable or fair to allow some niches to remain under pretexts based only on post-war considerations. I would like to point out that the specificity of these schemes is abolished only in order to return to normality, in the context of the general discussion on penitibility. There is good progress in this area between the various social partners. We do not deny at all that some jobs may be more painful than others; we have just found that there is no objective reason to conclude that this tenability was fundamentally different from that of other occupations, which were subject to the ordinary system. Of course we respect the railwaymen and the military, but we must also respect the other workers in this country. The best way to respect everyone is not to allow parallel systems to exist. I come to the purchasing power of pensioners. From the beginning, the wish and purpose of the Minister of Pensions was to upgrade the smaller pensions. Increases have already taken place in the last two years. Further adjustments will take place in the coming years. We will therefore once again reduce the risk for pensioners of falling into poverty. This year we have already seen a decline in this area. Moreover, pending its abolition, the gradual reduction of the solidarity contribution will also help to improve the purchasing power of persons receiving an average pension. In this regard, we will reach 25% in 2019. All these measures of revalorisation and reduction of contributions coupled with those of the tax shift will benefit all pensioners in the country. In conclusion, I would like to say a word about supplementary pensions and to use a formula dear to our Minister Bacquelaine: "To take care of pensions is not only to look after today's pensioners, but also those of tomorrow". It should be understood that the statutory pension and the supplementary pension do not conflict. As their name indicates, they complement each other, they reinforce each other. We would like everyone to be able to build up a low woollen base that will allow everyone to maintain a standard of living at the pension as close as possible to the standard of living we had when we were in operation. In my view, this is an extremely important development for the future well-being of our citizens. It is for this reason that we must promote measures to increase the number of workers who have a second pillar pension, but also to increase the amounts devoted to it. In this context, the possibility of establishing such a pension through payroll deductions is a step forward. I would remind you that the worker will remain the sole master of the amounts that will be withheld and will benefit from the related tax benefits. This technique will therefore make life easier for all by offering a guarantee for the future. We need to see far away. That is what our Minister of Pensions and our government are working on, for the benefit of the pensioners that we will all be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the late hour, I shall confine myself to a number of questions. I did not interrupt Mrs de Coster in her speech, but we will have a great deal of opportunity to do so, because, Mrs de Coster, a lot of things you have said are not going to go far. I will take one out anyway: the lowest pensions would have been improved by now. Because of all the measures taken by this government, but also in our case the Flemish Government, which is the invoices that have gone up, the result was really manifest for the lowest pensions. Minister, I notice that this time you are not referring to the Pension Commission. The Prime Minister did not do that either, whereas he did so every time in previous State of the Unions. It is striking, but rightly so: the Pension Commission has not been followed from the outset and the measures taken at present are not followed at all. The starting point of the Pension Commission was to give certainty to young people that they would have a pension later. What this government and the minister are constantly doing is providing uncertainty. People always say but it will not, we cannot, it will be priceless, one will have to take care of it and so on. The Retirement Commission was trying to counter this. She has always said that it is affordable, even in the future, subject to a number of measures, but it remained affordable. I am not talking about the second and third pillars, I am talking about the first pillar. That was the starting point of the Pension Commission. Minister, I have a number of questions. What I don't understand, you might be able to explain to me, is that the pension bonus was abolished by this government. You will now abolish the so-called unity of career. Now you need to explain to me what the improvement is. With the pension bonus there was a flat-rate amount, but with what you are about to do, releasing the unit of career, there is a totally unequal impact on the level of pensions. In other words, this will pay more for those who have a higher wage and thus a higher pension, while the pension bonus, a lump sum, was actually in favour of the lowest pensions. I do not understand why we want to abolish the pension bonus and now introduce this questionable system. Perhaps you could explain that to me. Secondly, the treated periods. I am not going to talk again about the disadvantage of women if you change things about this. Perhaps one figure, Minister: for male workers 38.66 % of a career consists of equivalent periods, for female workers 53.4%. It remains a question of what will happen to the treated periods. The Pension Commission said about this that those who are involuntaryly unemployed should be able to do proportionate pension building. The government fills that out completely differently. Is it true that in your plan the treated periods of unemployment from 1 January 2017 will count less for pensions starting from 1 January 2018? If this is true, Minister, ING's and Caterpillar's employees, who have recently been in trouble, will have a double blow to the head. On the one hand, they have lost their jobs. On the other hand, they will experience periods of unemployment from 1 January 2017. Let us hope that these people will find other jobs soon, but experience has shown that this is very difficult, especially for the 50-plussers. There will therefore be periods of unemployment. Is it true that those periods will count less? For the young people there will be problems anyway. Let us look at the low-skilled young people who have problems in the labour market. We must encourage them from all sides to get to work. Looking at these people's careers, these are the successions of temporary jobs, you're still encouraging them with the flexi jobs, but those are jobs they can't keep up. Their career is thus a variety of periods of employment with periods of unemployment. To that young generation you are already saying that they will have a problem with their pension-building unless, of course, there are other things and the information we have received is not entirely correct. Minister, with regard to the treated periods, an investigation has been carried out by the ABVV on the application of 50-plussers. For those people, the probability of a job interview is 12.5 %. So that's not a job opportunity, it's a job interview opportunity. So that's 12.5 out of 100. The perception of employment is very small for the low-skilled, despite all measures. And then you're gonna start moaning at the likes of it. I hope you will be able to give me information other than that I have received so far. A further question concerns the heavy-duty professions. You will recall the debate on raising the retirement age. It was even a little later than now, 1:34 a.m. I think it was 4:00 or 5:00 at the time. At that time, you said that there would be a regulation for the heavy professions within the year. You will now say that the social partners are not getting out. Mr Minister, it is strange that if it is to your advantage and to the detriment of the workers, you yourself take the lead and say how it will be handled, but that if it is to your disadvantage and to the benefit of the workers, you do not take control. When are we really going to get a regulation on the heavy-duty professions? The increase in the retirement age has been achieved and almost immediately, but we have not seen much of a regulation for the heavy-duty professions. Mr Minister, the abolition of the tantiemes was discussed with, for example, the Community Ministers of Education? You may recall that Flemish Minister Crevits was very angry because she was not informed, not of the abolition of the tantiemes, but of the abolition of the diploma bonus. She said that such matters should actually be discussed. You are nodding now, but Mrs Crevits said that it should first be discussed with the Ministers of the Communities. That is why my question is very simple whether the abolition of the tantiemes was also discussed with the Ministers of the Communities. Or have you forgotten that, too? I would add that this measure will certainly mean that teachers, policemen and firefighters will have to work longer for a lower pension. Finally, I come to the second pillar. It is inconceivable that you should first minimize the second pillar completely, that you should allow the percentages to fall from 3.75 to 1.75, and then say that the first pillar really will not be enough and that investment in the second pillar absolutely must be made. In addition, you say that it will be done individually. So in the future we will be able to decide individually what will happen to the second pillar. Well, that will produce an enormous matthew effect. In fact, the second pillar was already obstructed by this. I suggest that you read again the Court of Auditors' report on the second pillar, because it clearly states that the second pillar offers enormous benefits to those who already have a very high wage, and therefore a very high pension, but is actually minimal, almost zero, for those who have a low wage and therefore a low pension. If you wish to remedy this, I assume that there are proposals along these lines as well. You say that you will generalise the second pillar. I assume, then, that it will also be the civil servants, that they will also have a second pillar. However, my main question is how will you ensure that people who have low wages and therefore low pensions, people who have almost no money to invest themselves in a second pillar, let alone in a third, no longer have the matthew effect. Minister, I would like to ask you again where your overall plan is. In fact, the decision of the Pension Commission was that if we want to do pension reform we must have a global plan. We have to let the farmer play the social dialogue with this global plan. This overall plan must be supported by a large majority. There must be a full plan here that is supported by a large majority. What we see here time and time again in this majority is that there is no overall plan, that there are always little bits to be tackled and that social dialogue is, in fact, largely excluded. It is said in advance that we can discuss certain points and not the rest. Again, will you follow the report of the Pension Commission? If you follow it, when will you come up with your overall plan so that we can finally give young people prospects for an affordable pension in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u140	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we are going to have the big pension debate here tonight. This is not really the time, unless I would see fellow Members nodding with enthusiasm. Allow me, however, to give a shot, Minister, of what will undoubtedly come in committee. I would like to touch three points and ask you three questions. Firstly, I have a general question about the welfare envelope. A great deal has already been said about this in the course of the debate. The government wants to save 161 million euros each year on that welfare envelope. For us, that is an antisocial measure. The welfare envelope benefits the lowest benefits, but also the lowest pensions. The welfare envelope also serves to increase the lowest pensions. If you reduce the welfare envelope by 161 million euros, what is its impact on people's pensions? What is the impact on the pensions of people who are normally helped by the welfare envelope? Secondly, you are announcing a number of positive measures. I'm not putting that away. We believe that some of the pension reforms you have already carried out are necessary, but I have serious questions about a particular measure, namely equal treatment for the long-term unemployed and bridge-retired. You will reduce that equivalence. From the second year of long-term unemployment, for example, you will no longer grant a pension on the basis of the reference wage, but on the basis of a minimum right. Minister, you should not forget that there are still quite a few long-term unemployed in this country who are very difficult to get a job. It is about people who are very difficult to activate and yet you are going to punish that vulnerable group twice: a first time because they are unemployed and a second time because they will be able to count on less pensions later than they are today. We may be able to announce great theories about activation, and I am in favour of it because we need to get people working, but if they do not succeed, despite the government's activation measures, they should not be punished in their pension calculation. This is likely to happen now because you are reducing the equivalence of pensions. My second question is how you can defend this. I'd like to hear a motivation from you. My third question concerns the abolition of the solidarity contribution. You know that there have been many reforms in the past. The solidarity contribution that the highest pensions must contribute to will now be completely abolished. In other words, this generates less revenue for the government. Have you calculated the budgetary impact of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u141	Madam de Coster, thank you for your entry into the field of pension reforms. As you said, the aim is to harmonize, i.e. to increase fairness, to strengthen the purchasing power of pensioners. To this end, we are also working on supplementary pensions. In this respect, I wanted to say that there is no opposition between statutory pensions and supplementary pensions. In addition, the legal pillar must be strengthened, so that the pension can be supplemented by a supplementary pension. There is therefore no opposition between the two, it is important to clarify this today. I wanted to recall a few figures on minimum pensions. Between 2012 and 2014, the minimum pension for an employee increased by EUR 13.87. Between 2014 and 2016, the minimum pension for an employee increased by €45.39 per month. That's the truth. For the self-employed, between 2012 and 2014, the pension increased by EUR 13.10 per month. The minimum pension for them increased by EUR 107.79 per month between 2014 and 2016. That's the reality. So when I hear that we still plan pensions and we don't fight poverty, they're untruths. We've upgraded the minimum pensions. Mr. De Vriendt asks the question of the wellness envelope. The latter was used in particular to raise the minimum pensions. I recall that it all depends on how we use this envelope. In this case, the amount will be higher than the amount in effect under the previous legislature. It's an acquired fact. But it is not enough to dispose of it, but it must be used. I would recall that we used it heavily in 2015-2016 (up to 52%) for minimum pensions. That said, it has not only been used to upgrade the latter, but also to raise all the holiday pecules of all pensions – even the highest. The "well-being" envelope has re-aligned all pensions for 2010 and 2011, regardless of the amount of pensions. It does not therefore concern only minimum pensions. It is, for us, the minimum pensions. The social partners will discuss it and make proposals to me. Previously, they have not focused solely on minimum pensions. The absolute amount of the "well-being" envelope will be higher than it was in the previous legislature, but should we still use it...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u142	Fifty-seven percent...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u143	No, it will be 75%... it must be used effectively and, in my mind, the minimum pensions must be revalued first. Indeed, the fight against poverty is one of the priorities of this government; it is essential if we are to increase the ability of people to enjoy a decent standard of living at the time of their pension. We're going to work in that direction. Besides that, it is true that we have talked about the solidarity contribution. It's an old fight. I led him as a parliamentarian for years. We will indeed begin a gradual reduction, depending on the budgetary means, of the solidarity contribution. In order to increase the purchasing power of a number of average pensions. I would point out that the problem of the solidarity contribution is very often that people have an employee's pension and they are not subject to the solidarity contribution. Then, suddenly, when they receive their supplementary pension, they become liable for the solidarity contribution on the whole pension. I therefore believe that this mechanism is a little perverse and needs to be reviewed. Mr De Vriendt and Mrs Temmerman, as regards the calculation of equivalence, I would like to remind you that the previous government has decided no longer to calculate the pension rights of the unemployed in the third period on the basis of the last wage received, but on the basis of minimum annual law. It has also reduced the equivalence of the periods of bridge pension for bridge pensioners under 60 years of age to a minimum annual entitlement. The government supports the logic behind this reform, which aims to distinguish pension rights according to whether they are employed or unemployed, thereby guaranteeing the principle of equality itself. It is therefore that the equivalence of the unemployment days in the second period, after one year of unemployment, and those of the conventional bridge pension days will be calculated from 1 January 2018 on the basis of the minimum annual duty and no longer on the basis of the last wage. Bridge pensions for firms in restructuring, firms in difficulty and for the heavy professions will be permanently treated as the last wage. I repeat that this has never concerned periods of disability and incapacity for maternity leave. This remains as usual and 100 per cent. Here, the periods remain assimilated but on the basis of the minimum law. I would remind you that the minimum fee is 24 000 euros a year. It's still a relatively large assimilation from low wages. The aim is to strengthen the link between work and pension. This is also a recommendation of the Committee on Pension Reform. Considering that someone who has worked 45 years can now have a pension lower than those who have worked 30 years and have been unemployed 15 years - it is a frequent situation - is that fair? I am not saying that it is necessary to penalize people who go into unemployment and therefore withdraw assimilation, but we will consider that assimilation does not necessarily have to be done on the last wage received. It means that an unemployed person who had a low salary is penalized compared to someone who was unemployed and had a high salary before. Why? On what basis? I think we need to return to situations of greater equity. Assimilation must be made on an equal basis with regard to unemployment, on the basis of a minimum duty which is nevertheless 24 000 euros per year, i.e. 2 000 euros per month. It's this assimilation that's going to happen. It seems to me quite logical to work in this direction. With regard to the abolition of the limitation in the unit of career, particularly for 45 years, I would point out that a worker who has started his professional career at the age of 18 and who takes up his pension at the age of 65 will have 47 career years after having worked full-time continuously. However, his pension is only calculated at 45 years. From 1 January 2018, all effective working days for the retirement for which contributions have been paid and even the working days performed after 45 career years will allow pension rights to be built up and thus taken into account for the pension calculation. In other words, it means that people will stop contributing for nothing. When they have worked forty-five years and continue to work two years, these two years will constitute pension rights. I do not see what is harmful to this situation. On the contrary, it means that people are encouraged to continue working. For example, a person will be able to stop at 63 years of age, but will continue to work until the age of 65. She's two years older, she'll have 47/45th pension. This is the abolition of the career unit. Indeed, it will be periods worked, it seems to me the least of the things. The abolition of the career unit is a mechanism that promotes and rewards, through a higher pension, retention at work. As far as penitibility is concerned, I would point out that we have been talking about it for years and that, for the first time, the National Pension Committee has agreed on a report. He didn't agree on the whole system, but it's a first phase. Everyone thought it would never work. There was agreement on a text that referred to criteria of penitibility, particularly in the public service. There is now a possibility to begin the second phase, i.e. to determine a number of budgetary conditions which allow for a concrete approach to the recognition of penitibility. This system seems to me to be much more efficient and equitable than the present system of tantèmes. The first is 1844 for trades which probably no longer exist or which, in any case, have changed completely. We must stop referring to a system that is no longer relevant at all. On the contrary, recognition of penitibility needs to be approached in a slightly more modern way. It will have to be defined in practice with the social partners. You have to be clear, not everyone will have a hard job. Otherwise, there is no point in doing a penitential system. Some occupations are particularly difficult and need to be recognized as such. When it is said that we are going to go back to the ages of the military and the SNCB's rolling personnel, I do not prejudge, unless, you, you have decided that it was not painful. That's your problem. At today's time, I'm not prejudging because I don't know. I think it is the National Pension Committee that must work there and not recognize occupations as a whole, from day one to the end. It doesn't make any sense either. On the contrary, I believe that employers should be encouraged to allow for an adjustment of the trades as age progresses. The example of nurses is typical. They move patients all day long, starting from a certain age, they do tasks of the type of social secretariat, social supervision. So there is an evolution of the profession. It is normal that this should be done. The military will not go to combat zones at the age of 60, of course. We know that. It's coming under the heading. I find it necessary to try to reach a certain common sense with regard to the way in which these cases are dealt with. As far as the second pillar is concerned, we have actually gone from 3.75% to a variable rate, and fortunately indeed, because no employer wanted to offer its staff supplementary pension plans to 3.75%! It was they, the employers, and not the insurance companies, who were responsible for this guarantee. Conclusion, I've met lots of people who look after trustees who all told me the same thing. They all advised their clients, business owners, not to propose supplementary pension plans. They said: "You are crazy, if you do this, you put your company at risk because the rate you guarantee has nothing to do with the market rate." If the market goes back one day, we made a variable rate, the rate will go up as well. Of course, the rate must always be calculated over a long period of time. The supplementary pension is always calculated over a long period of time, otherwise it doesn't make much sense. I think it's important. I am also referring to the recent study by PensioPlus, which is interesting, because it makes a simulation comparing what a given amount of salary represents to the worker and a given sum of supplementary pension contributions. If the same amount is spent on the supplementary pension, this gives twice as much for the worker as a wage increase. It is something that I believe should be taken into account today. In constant francs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u144	Yeah, but we don't have the money at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u145	We don't have the money at the time, but that's the pension principle. We don't have the money when we're 30, that's for sure. Pension is at pension age.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u146	For low wages...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u147	I'm finishing on the global level. It's a bad trial. I've been doing politics for a few years. So far, I have never met a government that had a comprehensive vision on pensions, whether it is the legal pension, the supplementary pension, the recognition of penitibility, the point-based pension system, which is the ultimate objective to be set up according to the Committee on Pension Reform. There is a very clear philosophy in relation to this. This very clear philosophy is to strengthen the link between work and pension, to have a more equitable system, more harmonious between the three pension schemes and between the different sub-schemes, to ensure that there is more harmonization and fairness. It is also to strengthen the purchasing power of pensioners, because we are obviously well aware that these 2.4 million pensioners are involved in consumption, growth and economic activity. They are important agents and there is a need to maintain proper purchasing power for pensioners. It's very important. A country cannot put 2.4 million people out of its economic life. Important purchasing power must be maintained. Supplementary pensions must be generalised to promote a correct replacement rate. I never said we weren't gonna pay the legal pension. I have known some who have spoken more drasticly than my own by arguing, in particular, that if we did not undertake reforms, we would go straight into the wall! I don't know what that meant, but it hurts. We are here in rationality. In view of demographic changes, life expectancy and the budgetary situation, we know that the legal pension is a somewhat weakened system. So, we need to make him feel better. This is what we do by raising the ages and working a little longer. We assume it. We need to work a little longer to save the system, persevere it and allow future generations to benefit as well. But if we want to increase the replacement rate, we must also favour supplementary pensions in order to spread the risks. It is often the same in life: it is necessary to balance the risks between distribution and capitalisation and to ensure that a comprehensive system is available that is more advantageous for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u148	Minister, as has been said, we continue to do so in committee, but it is still the reverse world that the government is constantly increasing the retirement age and delaying work on workable work. We have often said that we have no problem with everyone making an effort and that we will all have to work longer together. However, the exceptions, which are necessary for the heavy professions, must be made at the start of the ride and not and route the route. There is still no solution for the heavy professions and yet you have already raised retirement ages. You are right that the social partners must decide on the use of the welfare envelope. If the money goes to the lowest pensions, to the living wage, to other things, that is also a matter for the social partners. However, you do not make it easier for the social partners to choose if you take EUR 161 million out of the pot every year. The social partners want to do something for the lowest benefits, but there are many social needs in our country. If you make it more difficult for them to withdraw EUR 160 million there, then we can ask ourselves to what extent this government really means with this pure fight against poverty. It was just about the tax shift with its benefits, but the lowest benefits of course do not pay taxes and do not benefit from that tax shift. Then that is purely a matter of assistance. We do not like the word assistance, neither do I, but it is the reality for a lot of people. I find that pulling away from that envelope incomprehensible. Frankly, I do not understand how such a budget can pass. I do not think that this is at all proportionate in terms of effort that is required of a very vulnerable group of people. Secondly, on equal treatment for the long-term unemployed and bridge-retired. You refer to the Di Rupo Government, but I am not bound by it: we also criticized it at the time. I just want to tell you that people who have been unemployed for three years, the long-term unemployed, often have low incomes. These are not the strongest people in the labour market. That means that even if you do not change anything to the equivalence, those people will still not have a particularly high pension at the end of the ride. If you punish them again for three years of unemployment, long-term unemployment, they will have even less pension at the end of the journey. That too, I think, is a rather unjust measure. Finally, there is the abolition of the solidarity contribution. I don't really understand that measure. The solidarity contribution brings money to the government. We know the budgetary reality. It's hard. We have been debating this all day. However, you intend to abolish a measure which generates money and requires solidarity from the highest pensions. You are correcting yourself now and saying that you will implement this measure depending, among other things, on the budgetary possibilities. I suggest we just get rid of it, Minister. It is not the budgetary times to give such a gift to the highest pensions. Remove that from your policy plans and we can all go home a lot happier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u149	Mr President, I would like to add to Mr De Vriendt's series of questions. Minister, you say you are concerned with low pensions and you think they should rise. Our pensions are not below the European average, but you also know that we cannot live well on the lowest pensions in Belgium. You always come back to that and you say you do a lot, but your policy points to the opposite. I have nothing against the fact that if people work longer, they also build up more pensions; that is obvious. My question is why did you abolish the pension bonus? Retirement was flat-rate. This means that the lowest pensions benefited more than the highest pensions. With this scheme, the highest pensions will enjoy it again. The same applies to the second pillar. I also think there should be capitalization and repartition, but the second pillar for the lowest pensions is zero. If you are going to individualize that so that people have to negotiate with their employer themselves, it will also be zero for the lowest wages. Those who have the lowest wages have no money. Those who have the lowest wages want a higher wage so that they can pay the doctor's fees better. They can't wait until their 65 or 67 years to get twice as much revenue. They don't have the money for that. So my question was how you will solve the matthew effect for the second pillar. I didn't get an answer to that. What you are doing is abolishing the solidarity contribution, because oh woe, oh woe, it affects you with the highest pensions. For the lowest pensions, however, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-17-54-plenair-ip134x.u150	Thank you, Mrs Temmerman. There are no more replies. This concludes our work, after almost 15 hours of debate. We'll meet again tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. for the vote of confidence. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 18 October 2016 at 2 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, October 18, 2016 at 2:00 p.m.
