ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u1	Colleagues, I think Mr. Van Rompuy will join us shortly. I didn't know earlier that he was going to march, when he announced 70 questions. Despite his absence, we will try to be effective. In agreement with the Minister, I propose, by courtesy, that Mr. Van Hees to ask a question which in principle only came in 39th position. This will allow Mr. Van Hees then went on to other occupations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u2	Thanks for the courtesy. Minister, on his return from his mission to Greece, the UN independent expert on the effects of foreign debt on the full enjoyment of all human rights presented his report to the UN Human Rights Council on 7 March. It gives alarming figures and facts on the social situation of the country - analysed as direct consequences of the application of the memoranda; it underlines the unsustainable nature of the Greek debt and points to the legal responsibility of the creditors of Greece, to which Belgium belongs. I will not give you all the figures on Greece's catastrophic situation, but only one formula from the UN expert sums up the thing: "excessive austerity killed nurses, nurses and doctors before taking care of the patients". The expert points out that this massive violation of fundamental rights is the direct result of the implementation of the first two memorandums concluded between Greece and its creditors in 2010 and 2012. The Belgian State as creditor is obliged to comply with its human rights obligations. This is the result of the texts of which Belgium is a party. In particular, the Belgian government must refrain from taking measures that would threaten the possibility for the borrowing State to comply with its own national and international human rights obligations. This is particularly the case with the United Nations Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, ratified by Greece and Belgium. The expert also points to the fact that Greece's creditors had, under European and international law, an obligation to carry out a preliminary study on the human impact of the measures listed, which was not done. It recommends that creditors and the Greek State conduct an impact assessment. In addition, one of its recommendations relates to the need for immediate relief of Greek debt. Here are my questions, Minister. 1. Does the Belgian government commit itself to putting on the agenda of the forthcoming meetings of European partners the question of the need for an assessment of the impact of the Memoranda on human rights in Greece? 2. Do you also undertake to address, on this occasion, the issue of the need to repeal the measures in the third memorandum that are not in conformity with European and international conventions aimed at protecting human rights? 3. Also at these meetings, do you undertake to defend the need to alleviate public debt as soon as possible without conditioning this relief to the implementation by Greece of new measures? 4. Do you also commit yourself to putting on the agenda of one of these meetings the question of the suspension of debts to the IMF and the European Central Bank since the Greek State is currently unable to meet its legal obligations to its people and refugees? 5. Does the government commit to suspend immediately the repayment of interest owed to the Belgian State in 2016? Is this an amount of EUR 9 million corresponding to the interest payable on the EUR 1.9 billion loan granted by the Belgian State in 2010? 6. Like the IMF and the ECB, has Belgium made any profits on these loans? If so, how high are they? 7. Does the Belgian Government undertake to unilaterally cancel its debt to Greece, corresponding to the EUR 1.9 billion loan granted in 2010, plus interest? This loan was conditional on strict compliance with the first memorandum by the Greek government, while it contains several illegal measures under European and international human rights conventions. 8. Does the Belgian Government undertake to ensure, at the next meeting of European partners, that the commitment of the Member States of the European Union made in 2012 to hand over to the Greek State the sums collected in respect of the payment of unfair interest is respected? 9. Did this surrender take place? If so, when? What is the amount of money returned by the ECB and all central banks? What is the total amount returned by the National Bank of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u3	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I take your questions one by one. 1. A social impact assessment was carried out and published in August 2015 by the European Commission to ensure a fair distribution of the efforts to be made. The issue of social rights is taken into account in this analysis. If the Greek Government and Greek civil society are of the opinion that there is a deterioration in the human rights situation, they must determine the actions to be taken in the negotiations and plead before the dedicated bodies. Given the elements of the answer I have just given, the answer is clear. Of course, we remain attentive to the Commission's monitoring of the impact of this situation. Nevertheless, it is the Greek authorities who in 2009 declared that the figures sent to the European Commission concerning the budget deficit of previous years were systematically falsified. The result was a budget deficit for 2010 from 3.7% to 15.6%. In view of this catastrophic situation, Greece has benefited from a new programme adapted to the new situation and more understanding. Let us add the €35 billion from the Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020, €700 million for the reception of refugees and the Commission's Task Force for Greece to support, among other things, the Greek administration for the implementation of tax reforms. In this regard, Belgium is assisting in the modernisation of the tax administration and the fight against tax evasion. If there is evidence of an infringement of human rights, the action must be brought before the European Court of Justice by any person or injured party. 2. Such action requires legal certainty of infringement of European and international conventions. I do not see such a request in the report of the United Nations expert to which you refer. 3. The issue of debt relief is in the context of discussions between Greece, Member States, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the EMS and the International Monetary Fund. The visions are different. The Eurogroup has already taken measures in 2012 to make Greek debt more sustainable, such as extending the maturity of bilateral loans for the first programme and for ERSF loans under the second programme for 15 years. The average duration of loans under the ESFR and MES is now 32.5 years. Borrowing costs have been abrogated or significantly reduced; in addition, ten-year grace periods on capital and interest have been approved. At the end of the positive conclusion of the first implementation evaluation of the measures taken under the third programme, the Eurogroup planned discussions on debt sustainability. If the timetable of actions is respected by the Greek Government, this can happen later this year. Fourth question. Since the IMF and the ECB are independent institutions, the Belgian Government does not have to decide on a possible suspension of repayments concerning them. Greece must legally honour its contract and repay its loans. Otherwise, it will constitute a credit event and put the country in default with all the consequences we know. Fifth question. All actions vis-à-vis Greece are carried out in consultation with the European partners. Unilateral actions are counterproductive for beneficiary countries and contrary to equal treatment between Member States. I am referring to Spain, Portugal, Cyprus and Ireland. The terms of the bilateral loan are very advantageous to Greece. Cancelling this claim would mean that the Belgian taxpayer would pay the Greek debt. Sixth question. It is clear that the profits of the IMF's borrowings accrue to the IMF, as well as the ECB's profits on the Greek bonds it holds in its portfolio. Belgium therefore has no benefit from it. Seventh question. There can be no unilateral cancellation of the debt for the reasons mentioned in the answer to your fifth question. Eighth question. Due to the expiry of the second programme at the end of June and Greece's lack of willingness to negotiate its extension, the agreement concluded in 2012 between the euro area Member States and Greece on the return of SMP and ANFA profits ended. It was an agreement negotiated at European level outside the macroeconomic adjustment programmes. Ninth question. Belgium has repaid the revenue received on ANFA, i.e. EUR 73.4 million, for the period 2012-2014 as well as on SMP, i.e. EUR 145 million for the same period, of which EUR 68 million will be transferred to a suspense account with the ESM for failure to comply with the conditions laid down in the second programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u4	Minister, I simply see that you have evaded the hard core of the question of saying that from the moment when the repayment of a loan exceeds what is legally permissible in terms of respect for human rights, the policy of repayment of loans must be called into question. That is the essence of the question. You do not answer that, except that there is no legal certainty in the report of the United Nations expert. It seems to me that the report is very clear and that the situation in Greece is catastrophic, it is even criminal today. Legally, it has implications for what creditors can demand from Greece. Clearly, this legislation is not being applied. I think that is both wrong from a legal point of view and that, socially speaking, it is a criminal policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u5	I propose that you resume the normal order of business as announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u6	Minister, the questions I want to ask you concern notional interests. First of all, here are some background elements. On 15 January 2016, you issued a communiqué following the announcement by the United States of a revised model of a double taxation preventive convention. You said: "The United States is the largest foreign investor in Belgium. The impact of this new model of agreement cannot therefore be underestimated and may eventually mean the end of the deduction of notional interest in a Belgian-American context. However, it should be made clear that, to this end, the preventive double taxation convention between Belgium and the United States must be renegotiated. This demonstrates once again that our corporate tax needs to be reviewed. The continuing international pressure on Belgian niche taxation must prompt us to act. If we want to ensure growth and employment, we must abandon the revenues and tax systems of the past." Secondly, in the government agreement, the section on corporate tax states that "a tax pact will be agreed in order to eliminate the uncertainty factor relating to the economic and fiscal environment of entrepreneurs". Finally, during the parliamentary debates, you have repeatedly expressed your opposition to greater tax harmonisation within the European Union by justifying it in December 2015 as follows: "In the European context, it is clear that when it comes to attracting foreign investment, however, small countries continue, inherently, to be disadvantaged. Indeed, when all the other parameters are the same, foreign investors are rather tempted to opt for a large country, to the detriment of a small one. Small countries must therefore be able to maintain their own political arsenal so that they can also attract these investors." Minister, what is the government's position on notional interests? Have you decided to abandon the niche policy that you have defended so far? Do you think that the contradictory statements made by government members on corporate tax are likely to eliminate the uncertainty that the government agreement wanted to limit? How do you intend to finance a corporate tax reduction of between 20% and 22%? I look forward to future debates, but this will allow us to feed our thinking ahead of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u7	Mr Dispa, in addition to the OECD's obligations, the United States is accelerating the movement and it is clear that the Belgian deduction of notional interests is in their collimator. Thus, the United States no longer wishes to grant all the treaty benefits for interest paid from the United States to companies related to Belgium that benefit from the deduction of notional interest. In practice, this means that the United States can apply a 30% levy on interest paid to a company linked to Belgium. In this case, the United States does not take into account the activities of the Belgian company or its actual presence in Belgium. The United States is the largest foreign investor in Belgium. The impact of this new model of convention cannot therefore be underestimated and perhaps means, in the long run, the end of the deduction of notional interests in a Belgian-American context. However, it should be made clear that, to this end, the preventive double taxation convention between Belgium and the United States still needs to be renegotiated. This demonstrates once again that our corporate tax needs to be reviewed. The continuing international pressure on Belgian niche taxation must prompt us to act. Moreover, it is crucial to be able to guarantee legal certainty to investors in this rather complex context. It is clear that the niche policy to date in this direction has reached its limits and needs to be adapted to comments and reactions at the international level. This does not mean that the authorities can no longer pursue fiscal policy in certain directions, such as the promotion of research and development. With regard to a revision of ISOC as decided during the last budgetary control, this debate will take place within the government and I do not wish to move forward now on the outcome of these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u8	Minister, thank you. In your answer, you took back some elements of the question, including the press release you issued in January 2015. For the rest, I understand your caution. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to this issue in the weeks or months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u9	Minister, in the wake of the recent problems of humidity in the Royal Museums in the Brussels Region - and on which I had the opportunity to interview your colleague Jambon last week - a head of the Bozar Cultural Centre spoke in the press suggesting that the possibility of extending the tax shelter policy to the renovation of museums should be examined. While this proposal does not appear as such in the government agreement, it does raise a certain degree of interest in facilitating the mobilization of private capital for the benefit of the national heritage. So, Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on this proposal. In concrete terms, how do you view this type of support for the renovation of our museums? Are you in favour or are you more reserved about the relevance of this track? Do you have an assessment of the application of such a measure and therefore its impact on the public treasury? If not, have you commissioned your services to conduct a study on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u10	Mr Minister, the dark cuts imposed by the government on its departments, both in terms of personnel and in terms of investment, obviously have consequences for the maintenance of public buildings. As my colleague said, we recently interviewed Mr Jambon, since the Régie des Bâtiments had to save 50 million. The minister told us that since then Beliris has spent 110 million on these investments. We see, as usual, that the Brussels people are investing in an area that, normally, the federal government should take care of. Federal museums are in a pitiful state, and you know better than we do. To remedy this, we are talking, on the one hand, about the tax shelter and, on the other, about proposals for legislation on sponsorship. Besides, I filed one about the plastic arts, to distinguish from the cinema and the performing arts. Minister, are you prepared to think about tax deductibility or liberality as part of private support for museums or creation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the tax shelter scheme for audiovisual works has been and continues to be a success since its restructuring. This success pushes everyone to propose an adaptation of the scheme to apply it as a solution to a particular financing problem in one or the other area. That is how we are still busy with the expansion of this regime to include the performing arts. Like the tax shelter scheme for audiovisual works, this expansion will take the form of a tax shelter scheme for stage and theatre works. It is therefore intended to finance the production and exploitation of the performing arts. In setting up such support, it is up to Belgium to demonstrate to the European Commission whether or not it is State aid, in which case the European Commission must agree on the compatibility of this aid with the European internal market. As regards the financing of the renovation of museums, the introduction of a specific tax shelter does not seem to be an appropriate measure. The purpose of the tax shelter system is in fact to encourage investors to bring venture capital. However, these investors will only commit capital if there is a prospect of potential financial return. It is difficult to see for such institutions how this financial return can be guaranteed except in the context of a specific work. Moreover, in fiscal terms, there are already a number of financing possibilities, including the mobilization of private capital for the benefit of the national heritage, in particular those which benefit from specific tax incentives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u12	I thank the minister for his response, although I am a little disappointed because I think that we must try to find maximum funding for culture and for what culture and heritage represent at the federal level. This is a question that deserves to be considered. Perhaps I will come back with other questions and proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u13	Minister, I agree with you that the tax shelter will not apply to museums or the plastic arts, since we cannot expect a "return" to private capital. There are concessions; there are tax deductions, but the system is not working at best today. Evaluations carried out by different banks have shown that this system is not working. Minister, we need to be able to discuss facilitation of concessions and direct tax deductions. This could support the creativity of this country, because we have beautiful artists who have difficulty selling their works today and we have pitiful museums. I think that many private people are prepared, on the basis of a liberality or a small tax deduction, to invest in culture in Belgium and to contribute to Belgian cultural influence. The federal government should act. I hope that we will have a debate here on the plastic arts to which the tax shelter does not apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, pursuant to sections 145/1 and 145/2 of the Income Tax Code 92, a 30% tax reduction is granted on payments made in connection with pension savings. Article 145/8 also limits the amount taken into account for the tax reduction for this pension savings to EUR 940. As regards the amounts paid for the establishment of a collective savings account with a bank, generally known as "pension savings fund", banks usually charge customers entry fees for each payment to such pension savings fund. These costs generally amount to 3%. It is important to note that these entry fees are intended to pay the commercial network that sells the pension savings shares. They are therefore not paid to the fund itself, but to the bank which sold the share of the fund. However, it appears in practice that banks levy these entry fees by 3% on the amounts paid by the customer in connection with the pension savings, and not in addition to them. This has two consequences. First, the customer does not actually invest 940 euros per year in his fund, but 940 euros minus 3%, or 911.80 euros. In this way, part of the tax advantage granted to him by the legislator escapes him. Over the entire career, the amount thus lost is not negligible. Second, a portion of the tax cost of pension savings results as a product in the bank's profit and loss account and is not allocated to venture capital financing, whereas that was one of the goals of pension savings. Similar questions may arise in the context of pension insurance. Minister, shouldn't the amount of €940 be paid net of any bank charges in pension savings funds? Therefore, should the remuneration received by the banks for the distribution of the pension savings shares, provided that it is reasonable in proportion to the service rendered, not be charged in addition to the amount of 940 euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u15	Mr President, Mr Dispa, the legal text is clear in this respect: the amount to be taken into account for the tax reduction for pension savings is that paid for the establishment of an individual or collective savings account or paid as a premium for savings insurance. The amount paid for the creation of a savings account is therefore any bank charges included. There are several advantages to maintaining a single maximum amount that includes potential entry fees to a pension savings fund. In particular, this avoids the need to assign different benefits to taxpayers depending on the pension savings funds to which they are saving. Since the tax advantage is intended to encourage taxpayers to set up pension savings, it is logical that this benefit should take into account the costs inherent in setting up pension savings. Finally, it is certainly not my intention to change this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will read back to the answers you have given me, because in total, I am not sure that the perverse effects I mentioned in the question are avoided. I understand, on the contrary, that they are rather confirmed. If so, I will come back to you with other requests for information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u17	Mr Minister, in Chapter 4, point 1.6 of the Rules of Procedure, the government will reform excise duties on tobacco. For example, ad valorem excise duties, depending on prices, will be partly replaced by specific excise duties, depending on the quantity. Your policy paper also mentions initiatives aimed at modernising and guaranteeing the collection of excise duties, and your ambition to increase the revenue from consumption of unhealthy products such as tobacco. This has already been demonstrated by the latest budgetary control. Our group has approved the tobacco plan. The reform will be particularly important for the daily merchants. The current system of collecting excise duties on tobacco products is opaque and complex. Moreover, it leaves too much room for unintended applications, such as the transfer of excise duties on traders rather than charging higher prices to consumers. An adjustment is therefore necessary. Mr Minister, my questions are actually obvious. Firstly, what measures are you preparing for the collection of excise duties on tobacco products? By when should the new system be introduced? Secondly, you have the ambition to increase the income from tobacco consumption. This has also been demonstrated by the latest budgetary change. How much revenue have tobacco products received in recent years? How much more revenue are you aiming for with your measures? The figure of EUR 74 million is already reflected in the budget change. Thirdly, can you confirm that not the daily dealers or local traders of tobacco products will suffer the consequences of your reform? How are you going to guarantee that? Do you confirm that you will move towards a less complex and more transparent system for collecting excise duties on tobacco products?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u18	Mrs Van Hoof, you refer to the section on excise duties in the policy paper, which states that several projects are being launched to modernise the collection of excise duties, including the introduction of an electronic system for processing claims for reimbursement of professional diesel and a new printing procedure for tax stamps or tapes for the tobacco sector to combat counterfeiting and counterfeiting more effectively. However, the modernisation of the collection of excise duties is not a reform of the method of collecting excise duties on tobacco products. Indeed, the method of collection is European and applies to all Community excise goods, not just tobacco products. This European regulation makes it very clear that excise duties are due at the time of the removal from consumption in the country. The modernisation of the collection of excise duties does, however, involve the automation and simplification of the arrangements for ordering tax registrations and for submitting the declaration. This has already been prepared internally and will now be developed. This should be complete by the end of 2017. In 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the full figures were rounded up, of course, in my text EUR 1.6 billion, EUR 2 billion, EUR 2.1 billion, EUR 2.25 billion and an additional EUR 2.25 billion in gross excise revenue on manufactured tobacco, respectively. Net for 2011 it was 855 million, for 2012 it was 1,17 billion, for 2013 it was 1,28 billion, for 2014 it was 1,39 billion and for 2015 it was 1,4 billion. VAT receipts for manufactured tobacco in 2011 amounted to 542 million, in 2012 to 636 million, in 2013 to 682 million, in 2014 to 740 million and in 2015 to 741 million. The government's budgetary measures should provide the following contributions: 299 million for 2016, 445 million for 2017, 620 million for 2018, 720 million for 2019 and 729 million for 2020. As I have said, moving to a less complex and more transparent system relates only to the automation and simplification of the procedures for ordering tax registrations and for submitting the declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u19	Thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that the revenue from excise duties is increasing for the government. That line is clearly visible. It is, of course, also important that the coalition agreement is respected. It clearly states that one would switch from proportional to specific excise duties. Today it is seen that in general excise duties the proportional excise duties account for 80% and the specific excise duties for 20%. This means that the tobacco producer is setting the consumer price today. This price does not always rise, because the tobacco producer benefits from the fact that there is still a large proportion of proportional excise duties, which means that he himself lowers the price, and that is the case with the consumer and the daily newspaper trader. So there is very little health gain, because the price does not weigh enough on the consumer. There is no reduction in smoking, which is why the revenue from excise duties is still very high. In the end, there is no health gain. The daily merchant also appears to be confronted with the fact that he has less margin. The market is protected by the tobacco producer, who lowers his price, but the margin for the daily merchant is also reduced. It complains about stone and bone, because in the meantime Europe wants fewer cigarettes in a pack, so it can ask for more for fewer cigarettes. If tobacco producers can decide the price for themselves today, there will be a number of disastrous consequences. The consumer doesn't feel it in the price and therefore doesn't get health benefits, but the tobacco dealer is head-of-the-line and sees his margin fall. I would therefore ask that the federal government agreement be taken seriously in this area and that the transition from proportional to specific excise duties be made. As a result, the tobacco producer has less margin to raise the consumer price and to transfer it to the daily merchant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, on 5 February last the Council of Ministers took the decision to appeal the decision of the European Commission of 11 January on advance rulings on surplus profits. In addition to Belgium, the European Commission has declared advance decisions granted by Luxembourg and the Netherlands to certain multinationals contrary to Community law. Three investigations are still under way, one of which concerns Ireland. Minister, on what basis does the federal government intend to base its legal argument on the remedy it has filed? What impact does this Commission decision have on the federal government's policy of attracting multinational groups to Belgian territory by means of tax schemes which derogate from ordinary law? What impact does this decision have on corporate tax? Have you contacted the other Member States targeted by the European Commission in this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my question is the same. I will not be long to give you my opinion on this decision which I consider to be a particularly damaging signal. I think that Belgium should change its tax systems as a matter of urgency and work together at international and European level to put an end to these tax dumping practices which do not benefit any State. Multinationals are the main beneficiaries. In this way, even if it puts our country at a disadvantage, we are totally in solidarity with the Commission's decision. Minister, what legal counsel has the federal government selected to help him challenge the European Commission's decision on excess profit ruling? What procedure was used? What were the other candidates? What is the cost of this intervention? What legal means will be used by the Belgian State in this case? Has the Commission's original decision already been published? Within which time must an appeal be lodged? Does the Belgian State intend to associate itself with the beneficiaries of the excess profit ruling in the context of this action? What action has the Belgian State taken towards the beneficiaries of the surplus profit ruling since the announcement of the European Commission's decision? Has a calculation been made of the profit for each of the beneficiary companies? How much is the total profit? Do you confirm or deny the total amount of €700 million in tax benefits granted to them? When and how does the Belgian State intend to recover these illegal state aid? This should occupy all your energy rather than contest the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u22	Mr Minister, my question concerns the government's decision to appeal against the Commission's decision in the area of over-profit-making. We know that this appeal is not suspensive. I also read an interview today in Knack with European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, who remains very clear on her point of view. Minister, I would have liked to hear the following from you. Firstly, what are the arguments you use to challenge the Commission's decision? Secondly, in what time do you expect a final verdict? Thirdly, I understand that you have entered into negotiations on the arrangements for recovery once the Commission has served its decision on our country. Are these negotiations still ongoing or have they been suspended after the appeal has been lodged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the appeal against the European decision was brought on 22 March by the law firm Clayton & Segura, which was selected following a tender procedure. On that occasion, seven law firms were contacted. The abolition of excess profit rules has, in fact, a significant impact in terms of the attractiveness of the Belgian tax system for multinational groups. That is why it is necessary and relevant to look seriously at this issue and to analyse the reforms that need to be applied to corporate tax so that our country remains attractive to investors. Belgium has not contacted the other Member States covered by the European Commission. It has been contacted by another Member State, but no concrete agreement has been reached. Belgium will have to wait for the verdict of the European Court of Justice. The judgment may be expected within one or two years. First, the European Commission will be able to replicate Belgium's application, after which Belgium will in turn be able to replicate it in relation to the court. The recovery procedure, in consultation with the European Commission, is now continuing, as the appeal is not suspensive. Belgium cooperates and prepares the necessary legislative texts in this respect to enable recovery to be carried out and to be carried out properly. However, Belgium will also submit a request to the court to suspend recovery, but it is of course the court that will ultimately decide on this. The correct calculation of the extent of the possible recovery is not yet possible because the administration does not yet have all the relevant data from the companies concerned. Its collection will be part of the recovery procedure itself. Belgium shall inform the companies concerned on a regular basis of progress in the dossier and with a view to preparing for a possible recovery. Companies wishing to appeal can obtain the text submitted by Belgium before the European Court of Justice. The European decision itself has not yet been published. Companies wishing to appeal can do so until two months after publication by the European Commission of the decision. Indeed, there are several companies that have indicated that they will consider their investments in Belgium in response to these events.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I understand that the case is embarrassing and that you have to move carefully in the resolution of this case, trying to reconcile different imperatives. I have not heard in your reply the arguments that structure the action brought. If it's possible, I'll make you a suggestion. Could you not share with the members of the commission the document introduced by the government to challenge this decision, so that we have the argument that your counsel has developed on your behalf? We will also pay close attention to the text which you are preparing and which you will be presenting to us quickly, I assume, in order to achieve the recovery which the Commission is asking you to do until further notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u25	Mr Minister, I take note of the fact that a procedure has been initiated by the Belgian State to recover the aid considered illegal by the European Commission. If I understand correctly, you are forced to do so pending an answer to your appeal. This seems to me to be a new and important information. This decision is explicit. For the rest, you are not very well informed and you have not answered the question of the cost of using the Clayton Law Office. This is important, as is the total cost of these tax aids, which is more important. You have neither confirmed nor reversed the amount of EUR 700 million. It is also important to make the matter clear and to control budgets, including tax expenditures. You also did not communicate to us, as Mr Dispa pointed out, the arguments used by the Belgian State to challenge this decision of the European Commission. I saw you opining the leader when we talked about spreading your argument to the members of the commission. That would be good. For the rest, I hope that this decision by the European Commission marks the end of a time when each country is trying to capture investments in the neighbouring country, not on the basis of the quality of its workforce or its research and development services, but only by giving tax gifts. That doesn't sound good to me. It is necessary to work towards harmonisation or approximation of tax systems at European level. This is the most sustainable and fair way to act on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u26	Mr President, Minister, as far as the argument is concerned, I understand that you will have the appeal delivered to the members of the committee so that we can take full note of it. You expect the verdict to fall within one or two years. However, you also indicate that you are asking the court to suspend the recovery on the basis of legislation currently being prepared for the time being. In the course of that procedure, I assume you expect a more rapid interim judgment from the same court?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u27	Mr. Chair, Minister, the training of FPS Finance officers is important in their engagement and careers. As part of the changeover, a large number of training courses need to be delivered quickly. Previously, these trainings were organized by in-house training centres. Following the reform, these centres were abolished. Minister, could you explain to me how these trainings are organized? By whom are they dispensed? According to my information, taxing agents or controllers are used to organize these trainings. Are the agents voluntary? How are they selected and how are the materials to be dispensed? Do they have any advantage in giving these courses to their colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u28	Mr Crusnière, as a result of the shift in the new structures, all the staff concerned had to follow specific training routes "bottom-up" before their actual redeployment. The last journeys are being finalized. All the managers concerned have identified the subject matter and have made available to their administration the means necessary to meet this priority, with the support and follow-up of the FPS Finance Academy. All these trainers have had the opportunity to highlight their expertise and to communicate their knowledge in a structured way to their colleagues. They also receive an allowance for vocational training for some of them and following the application of the Ministerial Decree of 25 October 1966. The employees of the tax administrations concerned had to either take specific courses as required, or take basic courses initially intended for trainees, or have the so-called permanent courses. For some of the pillars within tax administrations, courses are still busy, for example VAT for the SME pillar. The agents of the general administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes have, on the other hand, followed courses initially given by the general administration of taxation. The management services or the general administration of the Treasury have, for their part, directed their pedagogy on training techniques on the job supported by the hierarchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. You told me about the training the agents are taking. But what I was interested in was who provided these trainings, because, as I said in my question, the training centres within the FPS Finances were abolished. As a result, difficulties arise in the organisation of these training courses. I wanted to know who was dispensing them now and how the selection was done. Given the shortcomings and the difficulty in finding people who want to give these trainings, is there an obligation for some officials to give these trainings? That was the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u30	Minister, the tax administration has sent a notice of tax correction to the largest Belgian electricity producer, which covers almost 500 million euros in the context of the case opened at the end of 2013, beginning 2014 by the ISI. This investigation by the ISI was initiated following a report by the CREG stating that, during 2012, the French parent company had overbilled the gas sold to its Belgian subsidiary for an amount of EUR 500 million. This overbilling had a double cost to the community, as it led the producer to register a loss which not only considerably reduced its taxable profit by the Belgian State, but also deprived the Belgian municipalities of the share of the benefit to which they were entitled. When I asked you on January 12, 2016, whether other gas operators were suspected of using this overbilling technique, you said: "To date, I am not aware of such cases. I can learn more about this." Minister, since our exchange on this issue in mid-January, I assume you have had time to inquire. Therefore, can you tell me today whether there are any other gas operators suspected of using this overbilling technique? If so, could you give us more information about this? On which operators and on what amounts could these suspicions of overbilling be raised? Does the ISI have a similar report for 2013 concerning the largest Belgian electricity producer? Are there suspicious internal transfer prices in 2013 between this producer and its parent company? If so, what amount is the possible investigation and when does the ISI intend to close this investigation with the sending of an amending notice to that producer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u31	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, the ISI is taking the necessary initiatives to continue the investigation, both for the more recent years and for other operators in this sector. It is obvious that it takes the relevant information from the CREG. As the ISI investigation is still under way, it is premature to issue suspicions or to advance potential results on these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u32	Minister, I understand that investigations are under way. Therefore, you confirm that the ISI has requested CREG in relation to potential litigation situations. Is there more than one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u33	There's an ISI investigation. I can't comment on the number of files.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u34	Mr Minister, in the 2015 Book on Social Security Globally Managing and Public Social Security Institutions, the Court of Auditors states that government efforts to promote supplementary pensions are very unevenly distributed. There is a minority that builds up a very high supplementary pension and a large majority of employees for whom the supplementary pension represents only very limited capital. The hearings we held in the Committee on Social Affairs on the overall problem of supplementary pensions show that the tax authorities today have no or insufficient access to data from the DB2P database. The IRS does have access, but in practice it is far too little that it also effectively controls the data. The Court of Auditors' report states that: "The pension institutions were required to issue a certificate of compliance with the 80% rule on the basis of the elements communicated by the taxpayer. The FPS Finance states that a certificate should also be issued when that rule is exceeded. The Minister for Finance did not determine the models of the certificates. That means that they are not being applied either. As you know, this 80 % rule stipulates that the supplementary pension should not exceed 80 %. My questions to you are the following. Is there a legal restriction on the tax authority's access to that database? Is there a practical barrier that ensures that the IRS has no or insufficient access to the database today? Is the Court of Auditors' theorem that the models of the certificates needed to determine whether someone who exceeds 80 % rule has not yet been drawn up? If that's the case, are there any plans to draw them up? When would they be available? Wouldn't it be better if there was an automatic data exchange between the tax authorities and the database itself? If this is not the case, what are the obstacles that prevent it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u35	Mrs Temmerman, the FPS Finance has indeed been authorised by the Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health to consult the supplementary pension database. The model certificate to be issued by insurance undertakings, precautionary institutions and institutions for occupational retirement provision in case of exceeding the 80% limit has indeed not been adopted today, but this does not prevent the control of the 80% limit. The DB2P database was created to allow the FPS Finance to control that limit of 80 %. This means that access to the database will no longer make the use of the said certificate useful. The FPS Finance is in contact with the Sigedis association to arrange the exchange of information and the practical aspects concerning the opening of accesses for nine thousand officials. The automatic access procedure for these officials still needs to be validated. A number of safety elements relating to automated exchange still need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Can I assume that there will be an automatic exchange in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u37	Provided that the necessary modalities... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u38	They're working on that now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 9799 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u40	Minister, in Belgium, basic necessities are taxed at 6%. It is therefore difficult to understand that sanitary towels, tampons and other menstrual cuts are not included in this list of basic necessities. Indeed, they are essential products for women in terms of hygiene and public health. However, you are aware that all these products are now subject to a VAT of 21%. Our French neighbours have understood the importance of this issue and, following the mobilization of French feminist associations, the tax on these products has been reduced. When we know that chocolate, far from being of primary necessity, is taxed at 6% in our country, you will agree that this measure may seem to be largely discriminatory and inconsistent in the eyes of some, since the consequences concern only part of the population, namely women. It therefore seems logical and necessary for Belgium to follow France's lead in this area. I am here, moreover, the relay of the petition which goes in this direction and which has gathered in two weeks more than 2,600 signatures. Minister, do you also find this measure inconsistent and discriminatory? Are you planning to amend this provision by adding hygiene products such as sanitary towels, tampons and other menstrual cups to the list of basic necessities taxed at 6% VAT?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u41	Madam, first of all, I fully understand the views expressed in different media. However, it is important to recontextualize the debate. The fact that a product is in the common sense considered to be of primary necessity is, in itself, not a sufficient criterion to subject it to a reduced rate of VAT. Only those included in one of the headings in the tables of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1970 on the VAT rate benefit. As society evolves, the various headings in this table are gradually being modified, albeit on time. The current situation is the result of an express or explicit exclusion of these sanitary protection products, mentioned in heading 13, 2°. I would also point out that an initiative had been launched in 2007 to subject them to a reduced VAT rate. However, it was finally decided at the time not to do so for budgetary reasons. For my part, I fully understand your reaction. As part of a broader study of the problem, the VAT rate for application could be reviewed after consultation within the government and the possible adoption of a royal amending decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that substantive work is planned on this subject. Although these products are not included in a table, they remain essential products for women and have a certain cost. I hope that VAT on these products will be reduced to 6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u43	Mr President, Mr Minister, because of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank in particular, interest rates on savings books are at the lowest. To such an extent that some credit institutions demand or suggest a reduction in the mandatory minimum rate on these savings books, including to allow a negative rate. Such a decision could have undesirable effects on savers' behaviour and on the functioning of the economy. Minister, have you received such a request? If so, by which credit institution? How did you respond to that? What is your opinion on such a hypothesis? What measures do you envisage to increase the use of savings by banks to finance the real economy and SMEs? Indeed, I believe that it is this transformational role that must provide a solution to this low rate situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u44	Mr President, Minister, interest rates are currently very low in Europe because of the policy of the European Central Bank (ECB), which aims to boost the economy by stimulating the supply of credit. Today, when a bank deposits money with the ECB, it pays an interest of 0.3%. The aim of the latter is therefore to induce banks to reinject liquidity into the real economy rather than to insure it. However, this interest rate is currently declining and could rise in the future to -0.4 or -0.5 per cent. For this reason, several large Belgian banks have argued for the abolition of the legal minimum rate of 0.11% on regulated savings accounts established by Royal Decree. This would pave the way for negative returns on savings accounts in our country. In other words, savers could in this case have to pay to place money in a banking institution, whereas they are already heavily affected by current rates. In our view, going in this direction would be a mistake and a very bad signal: the Belgian citizen who works, who saves and who decides to place the fruit of his efforts in a bank, must under no circumstances be penalized for this. In this period of extremely low rates, it is more appropriate to continue to protect as much as possible the savers, who have already been subjected to severe stress. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. You have already had the opportunity to give your opinion on these various elements in the press. Could you confirm it here? Do you share the idea that such a measure could penalize our fellow citizens? Could you confirm that, therefore, you are not considering a revision of the statutory minimum rate? If so, how do you intend to protect savers? Finally, what are the possible ways of relieving Belgian banks from the problem? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u45	Minister, I agree with the introduction of the two previous speakers. I will only ask two questions. What is your attitude to the minimum interest rate on regulated savings deposits? Will you leave that unchanged or do you intend to take an initiative in this matter? It is striking that several large banks have reduced their interest rates to the legal minimum in the short term. Do you consider it appropriate to have an investigation conducted into possible cartel practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the minimum remuneration for deposits on savings books is 0.11%. This minimum remuneration allows the saver to receive a positive interest, even if market rates are currently negative. We are thus trying to protect purchasing power. Despite several press reports, we have not yet received a formal application from the banking sector to reduce the minimum interest rate on savings books. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of a revision of minimum interest rates. Of course, we are following closely the evolution of the European Central Bank's policy and its possible impact on the profitability of the banks and certainly the banks in our country. Indeed, the fact that several banks have reduced their interest rates in the short term is the inevitable consequence of the policy that the ECB is now pursuing and says that it will continue to pursue in the future. As regards the channelling of personal savings towards financing the real economy through bank loans to businesses, it should be stressed that this is not a major problem in the current context. On the contrary, there are various indications that bank credit is currently available in sufficient quantities and on relatively favourable terms for companies, as already indicated in the latest annual report of the National Bank of Belgium. This is due in particular to the significant decrease in the key rates of the eurosystem since 2012, as well as to its extensive securities purchase programme implemented since the beginning of 2015, which resulted in a significant reduction in the financing cost of banks which partially affected the rates they apply to loans to enterprises. As a result, the latter have seen their funding conditions improve in recent years. Thus, in the last few months and since the April 2014 low, the growth rate of bank loans to businesses has been steadily increasing. The latter became positive again in the 1st quarter of 2015 and accelerated sharply from October of the same year to reach the 2.8% rate at the end of January 2016. These are the latest figures available here. Moreover, the Belgian financial sector as a whole and the banking sector in particular played a role in supporting the Belgian economy during the period of crisis. In spite of the large upswing that the banking sector has undergone, we have not seen a substantial rationing in terms of credit in Belgium. On the contrary, in recent years the granting of loans to Belgian companies has continued to grow, albeit at a limited rate. For the moment, there is certainly no shortage of financing for Belgian companies, particularly in the context of a low-rate environment. Moreover, the ease of access of enterprises to the various sources of financing, in particular bank loans, is always closely monitored by the public authorities, whether in Belgium or in the rest of the European Union. This monitoring is carried out, inter alia, by means of business surveys, such as the one conducted twice a year by the European Commission and the European Central Bank. For Belgium, the results of this survey do not reveal any structural problems with regard to access to bank credit. The levels of acceptance and refusal to grant bank loans to Belgian SMEs are indeed similar to those observed, for example, in Germany. It is important to note that, according to the SMEs interviewed, access to sources of finance is a much less important problem than the availability of skilled labour or the cost of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u47	Minister, I take note of the fact that there has been no request to go below this minimum rate of 0.11% and that it is not your intention, if any, to further lower this rate. It's pretty positive. I have heard the end of your speech and your considerations about the absence of a contraction of the loan offer. I would be more nuanced in the diagnosis on the basis of studies and surveys carried out in particular by the Union of Middle Classes in Wallonia. Access to finance, and the transformation of savings into support for the real economy, remains a challenge for businesses. I think that many entrepreneurs are discouraged from formally applying for loans so as not to present too large a refusal statistics. This must remain a constant focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u48	I thank the minister for his relatively reassuring response. No official application has been submitted in Belgium on this subject. If so, the position of the Minister and the Government would be not to give in to this reduction in rates. The articles published in the press had, however, aroused a stir among the citizens. A clear answer like the one you have just made will be such as to reassure them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u49	Minister, I note that there is no request from our banks and that the government will not take any initiative to reduce minimum interest rates, for which we sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u50	Mr President, Minister, on February 29, during a speech at the Belgian Finance Club, you indicated that private capital would be needed to renovate public infrastructure such as Brussels tunnels. In this regard, I quote: "Given the scale of the investments that will be needed over the next few years, it is important not only to raise public money, but also to use private capital. In the coming months, our services will develop a proposal to this effect. We will also examine how to adapt the status of regulated real estate companies so that they can invest not only in real estate but also in infrastructure projects." Minister, could you give us more guidance on your vision for public infrastructure funding? Could you also provide us with the guidelines of the proposal that your departments are responsible for developing on the subject of investment mechanisms in project? Finally, how precisely is the status of regulated real estate companies likely to evolve in order to encourage the financing of public infrastructure projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u51	Mr President, Mr Calomne, Belgium is a bad student in public investment. This is the result of a study published at the time by the European Commission, which showed that public investment has fallen to 1.6% of GDP in recent years, the lowest level in the EU as a whole. The Arcadis Global Build Asset Wealth Index has confirmed this situation and shows that Belgium will become poorer by 2025 due to a lack of investment in infrastructure projects. The value of buildings and infrastructure in a country is an important indicator of the level of prosperity. This situation seriously undermines the long-term potential of the Belgian economy. The example of Brussels tunnels was cited as a symptomatic example of the lack of investment in infrastructure projects in Belgium in general. But in a more global way, these are investments in motorways, waterways, hospitals, schools and energy networks, among others. It is important that the federal authorities create the legal and regulatory framework for additional investment in infrastructure works and thus attract private capital to the maximum, given the limited budgetary margins available to the public authorities in our country. This was a recommendation of the Group of Experts on the Financial Sector, which considered the future of the financial sector in Belgium at the beginning of the year. This is why we are currently looking at a number of avenues on how to improve from a legal point of view the framework for investment in infrastructure works. The path to allowing regulated real estate companies to invest in infrastructure projects is only one track among others. We will continue our work in the coming weeks and months in collaboration with all the parties concerned, but it would be premature to want to go into details today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer, which confirms what I was able to find out. I can of course only encourage you in this direction, because these are important sources of funding. If it is premature at this stage to have additional information, I will allow myself to return to you when the project is finalized. We will be paying attention to the development of this issue, which seems important to our public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u53	Mr President, Minister, many borderers have concluded supplementary health insurance in Germany. Recently, they found that their invoice was increased by about 8%, with the reason given for imposing this type of insurance in Belgium. The German insurance companies refer, for the reason of this tariff increase, to judgment C-243/11 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, after which they pass on the tax for which they are liable to the Belgian tax to their Belgian policyholders. Currently, a debate is taking place on the interpretation of this judgment. Some see it as a reference to life insurance premiums, others argue that it also applies to supplementary health insurance. Minister, can you tell me whether the supplementary health insurance of borderers for contracts signed abroad is actually subject to this taxation? On what legal basis is your interpretation based?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u54	Mr de Lamotte, supplementary health insurance of frontier workers for contracts signed abroad is actually subject to the annual tax on insurance operations on the basis of Article 173, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Code of various duties and taxes, according to which insurance operations are subject to the tax when the risk is situated in Belgium, which is the case where the policyholder has his habitual residence in Belgium. This provision is the transposition of the European directives on insurance operations (see the explanatory memorandum of the programme law of 27 December 2005). There is nothing in the question to suggest that German insurance undertakings did not comply with both the directives and Belgian legislation by passing the tax on the contract in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u56	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I am aware that the issue is taking another turn in the light of recent developments. I had tabled this question in time non-suspecto. A mobile aircraft scanner, capable of detecting the presence of smuggled products hidden inside the aircraft, will soon be installed in Brussels Airport. As a result, customs authorities will be better equipped to deal effectively and more quickly with the illegal trade in cigarettes, drugs, drugs and protected products. In total, no less than 2.3 million euros were mobilised for the acquisition of this device by the SPF Finances. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. When exactly is the installation of the scanner planned on the Brussels Airport site? What volume of additional controls can be carried out with this new tool? As a result of the difficulties encountered, do you already have a planning plan that takes account of these new circumstances? Has a specific training programme been planned for customs personnel? If so, what exactly does it consist of and how many agents will be involved? Finally, what decision has been taken regarding the equipment of other Belgian airports with this type of scanner? Will the airports of Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Ostend also be equipped? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u58	Mr Calomne, the amount of the purchase in question (preparation, delivery and adjustment) is EUR 1 447 120, including VAT. Delivery of the device is scheduled for July 6 of this year. This will be followed by a period of testing as part of the provisional acceptance as well as training of operators. The final commissioning is scheduled for September 2016. This device is capable of scanning objects while rolling, making it possible to analyse images in real time. This therefore allows more trucks and goods to be controlled in a shorter period of time. The aircraft can be mobilised in hard-to-reach locations such as docks and airport areas. It is also equipped with an aircraft hold scanning tool. Training with a theoretical and practical component is provided for each target group (image analysts and drivers). This will address all aspects related to scanning operations such as system use, X-ray emissions, image analysis and security measures. Training is currently planned for a total of 15 participants. The aircraft will be mainly but not exclusively assigned to Zaventem airport. The airports of Bierset and Gosselies will be equipped with new stationary baggage scanners later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u59	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u60	Mr President, Minister, Belgian families, whose main earner is a frontier worker in the Netherlands, have been regularly affected by one or other discriminatory tax measure. For example, in a Belgian tax return they are not entitled to the tax-free allowance for dependent children. On 22 September 2015, in other words, last year, the court of appeal declared itself in favour of the affected families. According to the court, there is discrimination which should now be rectified. I would therefore like to know what the concrete plans are to correct this discrimination in the short term. So I would have liked to hear from you the following. Firstly, what are your planned initiatives and measures to implement quickly the ruling of the Court of Appeal and in other words to protect frontier families from additional costs through possible legal action? I mean that they should not all go to court individually, but that you should work out a generic solution. Secondly, is a legislative amendment being drafted and implemented? Thirdly, will you then quickly instruct the FPS Finance to contact the affected families themselves and to correct the past five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u61	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the judgment of the Antwerp appeal court of 22 September 2015 will be enforced in accordance with the decision-making part of the judgment. This means that the increase in the tax-free allowance for dependents will be applied without the payment of these increases to the spouse with the highest taxable income exempted. The FPS Finance is preparing proposals to bring Article 134 of the WIB 92 into line with the principles of free movement within the European Economic Area and the constitutional principle of equality. He also charts its budgetary implications. These proposals will be discussed within the government. The final proposal will be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. Finally, it is practically very difficult and even almost impossible for the administration to write all the taxable persons concerned individually. A procedure may be initiated on the basis of the rules laid down in the Income Tax Code. Further information on the procedure to be followed can be obtained from the contact centre and from the competent tax office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u62	Mr President, Minister, it is in any case a good thing that this discrimination will be rectified. I do not know whether you have set a certain timing for yourself or for the administration; perhaps you should ask and let me know, because it is not in your prepared answer. Secondly, you will agree with me that it would be a better solution, in general but also in this case, if the government could proactively approach the people who are the victims of this, in order to set it right spontaneously, rather than again telling the people that they themselves should make sure that they raise an objection or something like that. I would therefore urge you, as far as possible, to take initiatives, so that frontier workers are, at least in general, informed, if not individually, of the possibility of correcting the discrimination that has existed in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u63	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the extensive fraud of the tax authorities in the form of a money discount; this is not the first time you have been questioned about this fraud case. A few days ago we learned that the State had filed a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office in the hope of recovering the amounts diverted. Some sources refer to an amount of €350 million. Belgian legislation provides that any investor must pay a personal discount on the income of investments, shares, bonds or any other investment. The investor who is not resident in Belgium has the option, subject to conditions, to recover this discount by completing a refund application form. It was at the level of this procedure that the crooks had visibly identified a flaw. They allegedly applied for reimbursement on the basis of false certificates. Belgium does not seem to be the only one in this case, since Denmark is also affected, and to an even greater extent. Minister, where are we in the process? Do you confirm that this complaint was filed? Can you also tell us the extent of the fraud? Some sources mention 200, some others 350 million. Do you have an accurate idea of the amount of this fraud? Have any contacts been made with other countries that have been victims of this fraud? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u64	Mr Crusnière, I confirm that the case has been referred to the prosecution and that the judicial investigation is under way. The amount of fraud discovered to date has been estimated at €523.7 million, of which €201.5 million has already been repaid since the end of 2012. As regards the international level, bilateral contacts have been made with other countries that are victims or potentially victims of similar fraud, as well as via international platforms such as the OECD.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u65	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u66	Mr Minister, my questions were put separately, but according to the agenda they are both being dealt with together today. I'll put them in one go. You can answer them separately or together. You can see how it's prepared. The questions both deal with the ECB's interest rate policy and the observation that the interest rate level has fallen to a historical low. Interest rates were already low, but about a month ago the ECB decided to lower them even more to 0 %. Deposit rates were further reduced, from -0.3 to -0.4 %. The ECB also decided to strengthen the QE programme to a purchase of €80 billion per month. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you explain the possible consequences for savers of the additional interest rate reduction and the increased purchasing programme? Can you tell us what the possible impact could be on lending to companies? Can you clarify whether the measures will have a beneficial effect on the expenditure of Belgian families or on their savings, or whether everything depends on confidence in the market? My second question also concerns reduced interest rates and ECB decisions. Following the ECB's decision, reactions from certain economists and from the governor of the National Bank came more often. The economists argued that the ECB believes that this is the only way to further increase growth. However, it warns that interest rate policy must not be at the expense of structural reforms and measures that Member States must take. Both must go hand in hand. This was also the response of the Governor of the National Bank, who insisted that, in addition to the ECB's decisions, structural measures and reforms are needed, including in order to reduce public debt. In connection with the sovereign debt, we also received warnings from some other economists. It was said, for example, that the ECB's current policy might lead to a counter-effect. The purchasing programme could suddenly reduce public debt by about 10% to around 96% of Belgium's gross domestic product. Indeed, the ECB would have bought up EUR 41.5 billion in Belgian public debt, as a result of the increased purchasing programme. We might think that the lower public debt is a good effect. However, it could encourage Member States to look less closely. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. Can you clarify whether the problems posed by these economists have been correctly formulated and that our Belgian public debt could simply be reduced by 10% by the additional interest rate policy of the ECB, without our country having to face structural reforms? If so, does the government intend not to tackle public debt in a structural way? In the meantime, I am sure that the answer to that question is negative, and I would have expected nothing else from you. Can you explain to what extent you share the views of the Governor of the National Bank, who states that the ECB's interest rate policy must necessarily go hand in hand with structural reforms at Member State level? I also assume that you share that ideology and vision, given your earlier statements. The next question is important. Has the track of structural reforms in connection with the ECB's interest rate policy been discussed at European level in the Ecofin Council? What is the Ecofin Council's view on this and what does the Ecofin Council expect of the Member States? What findings have the European Ministers and yourself expressed in the Ecofin Council on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, that is what I would call a series of questions. First of all, I would like to express two reservations. Firstly, the European Central Bank is an independent institution, and I think that is quite right. Monetary policy is, to put it mildly, too valid and too sophisticated to leave to politicians. It is therefore better to leave this management to people who have the necessary know-how and independence in relation to all kinds of pressure, wider than pressure from politicians alone. There can be no discussion about that for me. Secondly, let me remind you that in 2008-2009 we experienced a particularly precarious situation. The fact that the situation did not get completely out of hand at the time, and possibly comparisons with what caused the depression in the 1930s, are really not far-fetched, I think, for the biggest part, should be written on the account of the central bankers and their reaction to the situation that occurred at that time. Having said that, it is of course obvious that we have now reached a point with monetary policy which can at least be regarded as unusual. A situation with negative interest rates and massive interventions in the capital markets, where not only government bonds, but also bonds from AAA companies, are purchased, is very unusual. We must not lose sight of the fact that the Statute of the European Central Bank is very deeply anchored in the fact that the European Central Bank cannot finance public deficits. That brings me straight to your question about that 10 %. So it is not true, in my reading of things, that when the European Central Bank buys up government paper through the National Bank, interventions are carried out through the national central banks and the debt disappears. The debt remains the debt of the Belgian government, which is now on the books of the European Central Bank, but that debt does not disappear. I think economists who claim that debt accounting, but also economically disappears because of the ECB's interventions, are making a bit of nonsense. Nevertheless, the fact that the European Central Bank intervenes is an important support for the financing possibilities of, inter alia, public authorities. The link with structural reforms, as the governor of our National Bank is doing, seems logical and justifiable to me, because what is the ultimate aim of this policy of the European Central Bank? It is aimed at trying to boost economic growth, and more recently also at inflation. As far as the euro area is concerned, we are clearly flirting with deflation, which is not a positive development. Where monetary is now almost to the limit to stimulating this growth, it would be very useful to achieve that growth, and especially job-intensive economic growth, through structural reforms. It is in that sense that I and the Finance Ministers within the Eurogroup and Ecofin are trying to renew the growth elan through structural reforms. We must dare to ask the following question. I am looking at the President, who has been following things for many decades. If we look today at the situation in Belgium, oil prices and interest rates are very low, over the past two years the euro-dollar exchange rate has fallen by about 20 %, we would historically expect the Belgian economy to grow by 2.5 to 3 % on the basis of that data. That is clearly not the case. We'll barely make it to half. I think we should have the courage to look at the basic structures of our socio-economic organization and try to get this economic machine going again. Once again, I think that the ECB, with its current policy, is really going to the limit to taking that growth to a slightly higher level through monetary incentives. All in all, there are many reasons for defending this policy. At the same time, however, we must not ignore the unintended consequences of this policy. In the English-speaking media, people often talk about the unintended consequences. I see two unintended consequences. At first, you already explained in your question: because the cost of money is now extremely low, the pressure to clean up, to reduce debt, is smaller than when the money is less cheap. We are still at very high levels of debt, not only in Belgium but in many other countries and regions. As a result, we are at risk of getting into some kind of circle, where the low cost of money makes it easier to finance debt, but also takes away the incentive to reduce debt. This is a first unintended consequence, which, of course, is not intended at all as a reproach for the European Central Bank's policy. A second unintended consequence is, of course, that because of these very low rates, the very low cost and hence the very low return of money, investors inevitably seek out other things that can still yield more returns. Soon we will find ourselves near so-called bubbles, which can occur in all sub-sectors of the financial world. Experience has shown that such bubbles have one characteristic in common, namely that they always jump broken, which is often accompanied by misery. So much for my answer to your various questions. I have one final comment to make. Of course, this policy is also a bit at the expense of the saver at the moment. On the other hand, if we have a new economic momentum through this policy, we will automatically get a piece of recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u68	I have another question that wasn't answered. What is the impact on business lending? You didn't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, business lending, like any economic story, has a supply and demand side. The cost of loans is quite low today, because the offer is quite voluminous. At the moment, the problem is more at the level of demand for loans, especially for companies. Quite a few companies have a lot of cash. Given the uncertain international environment, I find quite a few hesitations among companies to make effective investments. The money's here. It's also relatively cheap. By making it available, the investment projects are not yet there or the demand for credits is not yet there. This demand must be met in order to have an impact on the economy through the investment and sustainable spending of households.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u71	Mr President, you are very strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u72	For one's own children one has to be stricter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u73	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the last word. Minister, I noticed that you had not yet answered one part of my question. Now, however, that has happened. Thank you, therefore, for your comprehensive answer. The answer did not surprise me, because I would have been surprised if you had given a different view here and if you had followed and said the economists to whom I referred. That's why I'm relieved. In response, we absolutely must continue to work on structural reforms. We must not deviate from that line in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u74	Mr Minister, I will keep coming back to this. I have already asked several questions about this, but every time I have received an answer from you, it is clear from practice that there is no solution at all. Now I'm getting questions from practice again. It appears that the clarity and transparency promised are still not there. Hence my ongoing questions on this subject. In your answer to my previous question, you said that the BBI should apply the circular at issue. Despite the circular and your answer, however, there is still uncertainty in practice. On the one hand, you refer to the sovereignty of the contract and, therefore, implicitly acknowledge the possibility that publishers pay their freelance journalists exclusively in copyright fees, something the publishers continue to do. On the other hand, you refer to the concept of "economic reality' as a condition. This would mean that an exclusive copyright fee would not be possible because, of course, there is also an aspect of performance remuneration in the publisher-journalist ratio, as the BBI points out in its files against journalists. Hence my new questions, coming back to my previous questions. Are you planning to clarify this file? Apparently, that's really necessary. For example, you can provide a reasonable ratio between performance fees, on the one hand, and benefits, on the other hand, and copyright fees. Then what relationship will you have your administration impose? Secondly, can you clarify to what extent would you then provide for a waiver of the additional amounts and fines already claimed? There is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. Thirdly, can you tell us if there has been any consultation with your cabinet? I believe that this would also be advisable if we did not continue to ask through questions. Has there been any consultation between the administration and the professional association of journalists in order to come to an agreement on this matter? Finally, if that were the case, what was the outcome of this consultation? What steps will be taken in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u75	In the parliamentary questions of November 2014, February 2015 and January 2016, I indicated that the circular should be applied by all services of the FPS, including the BBI. Prior to the Law of 16 July 2008 amending the WIB 92 and establishing a flat-rate tax scheme on copyright and related rights, publishers were already able to pay the journalists in copyright income. However, those fees were fully taxed as professional income at the time. In particular, the circular referred to above states that the law of 16 July 2008 does not aim at converting into copyright the income that has so far been actual professional income. The tax classification of copyright income should be examined on a case-by-case basis in the light of the legal and factual circumstances. There is no legal provision in common law or in tax law which provides for a rate of reimbursement in respect of the revenue from the assignment or concession of copyright. However, the parties are free to conclude a particular agreement among themselves. Where, for a specific profession between the persons concerned, an agreement is concluded by means of a collective agreement or by any other means relating to a particular relationship between the income from the assignment or concession of copyright and other income, the agreement shall be accepted by the administration to the extent that it also corresponds to the factual reality. After all, tax law is based on that reality, in all circumstances and certainly here too. It must therefore always be examined whether it is really a question of revenue from the assignment or concession of copyright. In so far as it appears that there is a concession or concession of copyright, the possible breakdown between movable income and professional income will be made on the basis of the provisions of the agreement. In the current state of law, therefore, it is not for me to establish a reasonable relationship between the income from copyright and other professional income, whether it is an activity as a journalist or another professional activity. I can also tell you that an exchange of views has taken place and is still planned between my cabinet, the administration and the professionals of the journalistic sector, repeating the principles mentioned above. We are trying to reach an agreement that is workable and acceptable to everyone, but that is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u76	Minister, I suspected that it was not easy, but I am glad that a consultation has been planned, because it is still best to coordinate things. I hope that there will be a solution that can be reasonably positive for everyone, including the journalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u77	In the meantime, we've done the tax shift. It provides for the reduction of labour costs as far as possible and the acquisition of income from other sources, including withholding tax. The withholding tax has now been increased and generalised for a large part. Apparently, as a result of that tax shift, there is in particular a serious increase in income from regulated real estate companies. These include the real estate companies involved in the management of retirement homes and service flats. Apparently, over the past decades, many OCMWs have invested in service flats through the use of the real estate company Care Property Invest. Service flats were built on relatively good conditions. By increasing the withholding tax on these real estate companies, there would be a risk of a severe drain on some OCMW debt holders, who have invested heavily in service flats through Care Property Invest. There is already talk of charging the increase in that withholding tax in the own budgets of the OCMW's or................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have already heard from some OCMWFs that this could lead to an increase in the monthly health bill of about 200 euros for some service flats. That scared me anyway, because that's a lot. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you clarify the concrete background to this problem? Can you tell us if you are consulting with the OCMWFs and the VVSG? What findings could have emerged from this consultation? Can the concerns of the VVSG and OCMW be addressed in any way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, in the context of the tax shift, the government has indeed decided to increase the withholding tax and to abolish as many exceptions as possible to that regime. For the specific context of Care Property Invest's problems, I refer you to the company concerned itself, as this has to do with the very nature of the company's statutes. Whether or not to pass on the additional costs of withholding tax to the residents of the service flats is an autonomous decision of the OCMWFs and is not, or should not be, an automatism. I want to be very clear on this point. So far, we have not been contacted about the problem in question, either by the OCMWFs or by the VVSG. It goes without saying, however, that if this were to happen, the door would of course be open to discussion with them in order to clarify the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am somewhat surprised that there would be no knowledge of the VVSG's and OCMW's questions. After all, I myself saw a letter that would have left from a number of OCMWFs. The letter may have been sent to your cabinet by the VVSG. I'm not sure. In any case, several OCMWFs have sought support to ask for more explanation and explanation in the matter. I will see where this is and also whether it can be followed up further by the VVSG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u80	Mr Minister, some Belgian residents working in Germany were entitled to exit premiums at the end of the contract from their employer. These premiums were fully subject to German income tax. The SPF Finances has now contacted them and subject these premiums to taxation also in Belgium. However, the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation between Belgium and Germany, which entered into force in 1969 and was revised in 2003, applies to income tax, known as Einkommenssteuer. Minister, on what legal basis can the FPS Finances make this tax? Is this not a case of double taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u81	Mr de Lamotte, the Belgian-German Convention for the Prevention of Double Taxation concluded on 11 April 1967 is the only legal basis for determining which State, Belgian or German, is entitled to impose the premiums referred to here. It is not excluded that these premiums are paid in different circumstances, with the result that the tax power is given differently in the context. In the absence of more detailed information on the precise nature of these premiums and how they are to be granted, it would be imprudent to take a formal decision on this. If you are aware of any specific cases, I suggest that you share them with me for a thorough examination by the FPS Finance specialized services. I also call on taxpayers in both Belgium and Germany to make themselves known. The Belgian-German Convention, like all conventions, provides for a procedure for consultation between States to correct these situations of double taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u82	Minister, we will therefore continue to forward the documents to you in order to have a written procedure to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u83	Minister, our world and our economy are changing, and of course our tax system must adapt to that. I believe that we are seeing more and more phenomena that fall under the heading of "Sharing Economy'. It's about a form of enterprise that I'm very fond of. When I heard that this was agreed in the context of budgetary control in connection with the sharing economy, that naturally aroused my curiosity. There is a new tax regime for the sharing economy in the media. That could be a very good idea. There is currently a great deal of uncertainty about the declaration of such revenue; there is a need for some clarity and perhaps some simplification. However, if the new tax regime results in an additional tax burden on a sector and a dynamic that we must embrace, that would be a pity. I therefore assume that you will announce legislative initiatives. Perhaps you would ask me to exercise some patience, but I would like to know what it will be about. Are we talking about a sympathetic measure, a promotional measure or a brake on the roll-out of the collaborative economy? What are the contours of the new tax regime? Is it an additional tax, an additional tax burden, or is it replacing the existing systems and thus ensuring a certain clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u84	Mr Calvo, as you say, we are talking about new economic actors in the so-called sharing economy. Such initiatives are taking off like mushrooms and should be given every opportunity. A fiscal framework will be created to create a level playing field vis-à-vis the classic players, not to mention classic competitors. It must be a simple and transparent regime, which is for low burdens, simplicity and transparency. Given the characteristics of the actors in the collaborative economy, there should also be a minimum of administrative obligations. At the moment, we are finalising the modalities of such a regulation. Once these have been completed, I do not like to talk about unfinished products, I will be happy to inform Parliament about all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u85	I look forward to that tax regime. What contours and motives can and should be the basis of such a regime, I have explained in my question. I hope that the legislative framework responds to these contours, so that it is a positive measure, a facilitating way to regulate a new dynamic and sector. Of course, we also need to regulate, and of course we need to introduce this income into our taxation, otherwise there would be unfair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u86	Minister, on 12 July 2015, the House of Representatives unanimously voted the law on the fight against vulture funds. This gives me the opportunity, once again, to thank your firm for its support and legal framework for the drafting of this provision. Precursor, our country has decided to legislate in order to prevent hedge funds, often housed in tax havens, from benefiting illegitimately in Belgium at the expense of states in difficulty. As you know, our legislation has generated a sustained interest in many countries around the world, whether or not confronted with this phenomenon, and enables Belgium to take the lead in the fight against these "vulture funds", which economically suffocate the poorest countries on the planet in a unique logic of profitability pushed to the extreme. Last week, I received an invitation to go to London to explain this law to a panel of parliamentarians, associations and NGOs. It is probably the fear that our legislation will inspire other states or other laws that prompted one of the largest vulture funds, the speculative fund NML Capital Ltd, based in the Cayman Islands, to file, on 2 March, an application to the Constitutional Court for annulment of this law. The complainant's criticisms are probably twofold. They relate, on the one hand, to the legitimacy of the norm and, on the other, to its constitutionality. As far as the legitimacy of the norm is concerned, we must remember with authority and firmness that the political choices and consequently the legitimacy of a norm are being discussed before our parliament, a democratically elected assembly, and not in a private entity hosted in a tax haven with a sole purpose of financial gain. As for compliance with the Constitution by law, it is worth recalling the serious and thorough work carried out in the Finance and Budget Committee of this Assembly and in plenary session in order to ensure the quality of the law, the legality of the criteria, but also their necessary flexibility, with a view to providing an independent and impartial tribunal with the opportunity to judge the question of proportionality. You should therefore be asked, Minister, to ensure that the law of 12 July 2015 is fully implemented. It is also your responsibility to ensure that this legislation is adequately defended before the Constitutional Court in order to preserve a precursor legislative arsenal that preserves the state of logic dictated by purely mercantile purposes, by appointing a specialized lawyer. Therefore, Minister, I invite you to ensure a serious and adequate defence of this law. Have you appointed a lawyer to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u87	Mr Minister, if I have not been invited to join Mr Laaouej in London's tea salons, I have allowed myself to invite me to your committee to join my esteemed colleague's question. We had the chance to vote on this law. As Mr Laaouej has pointed out, it is in the spotlight of international news. We have had the chance to vote unanimously in all political groups. The MR Group obviously reiterates its support for the law and its commitment to its objectives, which have motivated the whole Parliament to adopt it. We agree with this desire to act significantly against the immoral action of certain speculators who take advantage of the fragility of some debtors to enrich themselves at the expense of local populations. We remain convinced that you will take all necessary steps, while respecting the separation of powers emanating from our Constitution. In the interests of transparency, I must tell you that, together with my colleague Mr Laaouej, we agreed to ask this question also to the Minister of Justice. That's what I had the opportunity to do earlier. He sent me back to you, confirming, however, that you had appointed a lawyer to assume the defence necessary for the case. I would like to ask you how you are reacting to this request and whether you are considering taking additional measures to that of appointing a lawyer, which will obviously be aimed at defending our interests in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u88	Gentlemen, to your rather broad questions, my answer is rather short but, I think, quite clear. In the file of the application filed with the Constitutional Court by NML Capital Ltd for the annulment of the vulture funds law of 12 July 2015, the Council of Ministers, on my initiative, decided on 25 March 2016 to appoint an advisor from the SPF Finances to represent and assist me in this regard. I think the answer is clear about your requests in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u89	Minister, thank you. Does a FPS Finance Advisor mean a lawyer? [[Sentiment]] All right. Thank you, I take note and welcome the initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u90	Minister, we already had this information earlier. In addition to this, the Minister of Justice had added that until the law is overturned in its operative part, it is fully effective. I asked him if he had ever been aware of a case currently pending which would have been brought before him on the basis of that law, since it was coming out of effect. He told me he couldn't answer me. Perhaps you have more information about this, Mr. Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u91	Minister, within the framework of the budget, the government has decided to enroll an annual revenue of 460 million in the budget for the caiman tax. Budgetary control has added another 70 million. In the notification I read that this was done on the basis of the calculations of the FPS Finance, which mainly based itself on figures collected by and available from the National Bank. Since then, you have given interviews here and there, in which you have always suggested that this is more than in a report from the FOD, based on figures from the National Bank. In the Latest News, you are talking about estimates by the National Bank of the Cayman tax and at VTM you said that the figure in the budget is based on an estimate by the National Bank. You give the impression that there is not only the report of your own FOD, but also a report from the National Bank. I would like you to clarify that. Is there a report from the National Bank? Are there any estimates from the National Bank? If so, when does that report date? In that case, are you prepared to give the members of the Finance Committee access to that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u92	Mr Vanvelthoven, as an answer to your question, I can refer to the explanatory statement on the budgetary return of the caiman tax, the viewing tax, during the first reading of the draft programme law in this Chamber. During these discussions, I have already clarified that the data of the National Bank on foreign financial assets, on which the FPS Finance has based itself, were corrected with, inter alia, an exclusion from the amount of assets held by residents in the United States, Luxembourg and Switzerland, three non-important countries. However, the amount of assets held in these countries is significant. A non-imminent number of structures in these countries will also be subject more than likely to be subject to the browsing tax. Therefore, the data of the National Bank of Belgium were substantially corrected in order to arrive at a conservative assessment of the potential return. I'm declaring myself. The amount of foreign financial assets estimated to be covered by the viewing tax was estimated at EUR 57.7 billion after corrections. Since the data of the National Bank of Belgium are not public and were provided to the FPS Finance on the basis of confidentiality, I cannot, unfortunately, make a country-specific breakdown of the amount. The annual income flow of capital gains, generating the financial assets, was estimated at EUR 1 840 million or, if you wish, EUR 1.84 billion, on the basis of a return of 3.2 %. This thus generates annual tax revenue of 460 million euros with a tax of 25%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which has already been given in other circumstances. However, you do not answer the question. You are chewing up the calculation, which you have undoubtedly also submitted to the government. You know that your own administration regards the Cayman tax revenues as utopian. That is why I am asking whether there is an estimate from the National Bank of Belgium. I understand she's not here. I also understand that this is not true if you have suggested it in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u94	Minister, reception parents are currently charging a sanctioning surcharge if children do not show up in any way without warning. The care of parents who are active in economic life is important for parents, but also for the government. In the past, the federal government has supported the policies of the Regions with the Finance Ministers by providing maximum support for the potential reception capacity for reception parents, including financial support. For example, there is the well-known cost-benefit analysis, which is very positive in the field. Good quality care has become increasingly important, with the result that in the past, for example, a one-off flat-rate grant of EUR 212 was granted to compensate for the costs of investing in fire safety. That concession was actually considered to be a cost compensation. In the further rehabilitation of the parents in order to maximise the capacity of the limited reception capacity, a sanctioning supplement has recently been charged, at least in Flanders, if the agreements are not complied with. That makes sense, because resources are limited. When children don't show up, that means an economic loss for the welcome parent. This sanctioning supplement is mainly intended to compensate for the additional costs of the reception parent. For example, the reception parent has cooked food, the heating remains equally open and the electricity keeps running. That sanctioning supplement is a very marginal amount. Often only 2 euros are charged to signal to parents that childcare for reception parents also costs money. Nevertheless, a reply from your services shows that this 2 euro sanctioning supplement is also regarded by your services as taxable professional income. Mr Minister, do you think that this exceptional compensation is an expense payment, which should not be taxed, but can be considered in the same way as the flat-rate subsidy of EUR 212? If not, can you indicate on the basis of which tax classification that limited, exceptional remuneration should be considered taxable income? If that qualification is maintained, will you consider introducing an annual threshold in order to reduce administrative burdens and costs, and in accordance with other existing tax decisions? As a result, there can be some flexibility. If the sanctioning fee does not exceed a certain threshold amount, it may not have to be considered as income for the reception parents, but can effectively be considered as expenses for costs actually incurred for a child who has not shown up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u95	Mrs Lanjri, the sanctioning surcharge that is charged when parents fail to comply with the agreements is not considered to be a cost compensation, as there are no costs involved. So the comparison with the one-off flat-rate subsidy of EUR 212, which does cover actual expenditure incurred to increase the safety of the children receiving care, does not really apply. The sanctioning surcharge cannot therefore be regarded as a non-taxable expense or cost compensation. The income from such a supplement shall be received by the reception parents in the course of their professional activities and shall, in accordance with the relevant legal provisions, generate taxable professional income where its level is not relevant. The introduction of an annual threshold is not currently envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u96	Perhaps I should have been clearer in my question and really give some examples. You said that there were no real costs and that it was not expenses. However, these expenses have been incurred. It is not really an income, because one sits down with, for example, the boiled potatoes or the soup. The costs have been incurred and will not be reimbursed. Moreover, the reception parent often charges only a surcharge of 2 euros. I would therefore ask you to ask your administration to look at this again. I have no problem with it if you tell me that it has to be cost-effective. Either it is an income, or the costs must be proven. I believe that the conversation should be possible. Is this an effective cost for porridge, heating, water and food, for example? That's what the supplement's for. I believe that the problem must be solved. It's a small thing, but it's extremely important in our society that we don't discourage reception mothers. I'm counting on your cooperation on that. I hope there'll be a conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u97	You are, of course, aware of the problem, Minister. Your former head of the cabinet and a former employee of yours are now with companies that want to challenge excess profit rulings with their Sintax office. The least I can say is that it has the perception of conflict of interest. The European Commission's investigation into excess profit rulings was ongoing at the time when the parties concerned worked in the minister's cabinet. It is therefore difficult to imagine that the head of the cabinet was not involved. In what way were they involved in the file during the period they worked in your cabinet? What was the state of play in the file on excess profit rulings at the time your head of the cabinet left the cabinet? In other words, it feels like there's a link between that file and his departure. Have any agreements been made on the future activities of those concerned following their departure from your cabinet? As far as the appeal procedure is concerned, the government has issued an order to be assisted in the appeal against the European Commission on the excessive profit rotation. I have just understood that it would be about six offices, one of which was chosen. However, I am not sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u98	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u99	It concerns seven firms that have applied. That question has already been answered. However, I would like to clarify how you look at the matter. After all, it gives the feeling that your employees are working on a file to maximise the public interest, after which they switch to the private sector and defend the private interest. We can question this deontologically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u100	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, Mr. Calvo and I discovered with great interest and surprise the PowerPoint of the Sintax Law Office, dated February 3, 2016, entitled Excess Profit Rule and the State Aid Finding, How to react? This document is very well documented and is clearly aimed at approaching companies affected by the European Commission's decision to consider excess profit regulation as State aid and encourages them either to associate themselves with the Belgian State in its action against the Commission's decision, or to attack the advisers who helped them set up the said cases, or – and this is, in my view, important – to attack the Belgian State itself as responsible for the possible financial loss of the companies concerned. This PowerPoint is signed by two partners in Sintax office, Mr. Mathieu lsenbaert, who was your Chief of Staff from October 2014 to April 2015 and Mr. Philippe Bielen who was also a collaborator in your office, Deputy Chief of Staff if I'm not mistaken. We can really be astonished by the intervention of Messrs. Isenbaert and Bielen in this case. From a ethical and legal point of view, would they not be using information of which they have become aware in the course of their duties within your firm (the names of the companies concerned, the nature of the decision taken by the Commission, the arguments of the latter, the timetable of the case) for personal benefit and, where appropriate, against their former employer, the Belgian State? Imagine the case of a private company! A manager left and, a few months later, used information he had obtained in the course of his former duties against his former employer. That is what is happening in this situation. Mr Isenbaert approached and encouraged companies to attack the Belgian State. I'm stunned! Minister, can you tell me under what status Mr. lsenbaert worked in your office and why he left in April 2015? Under what status and during what period did Mr.Bielen work in your firm? What were his specific functions? What are the reasons why he left your firm? What were the contractual clauses, in particular in terms of non-competition, which accompanied the decision to terminate the cooperation of MM. Isenbaert and Bielen? Have you imposed a non-competition clause on them, as may exist in the private sector? What is the information on the excess profit ruling which has been accessed by MM. lsenbaert and Bielen in your firm? Did they, in particular, know the names of the companies benefiting from the excess profit ruling? I have already asked you this question several times without getting an answer. What about the European Commission's timetable on this issue? What about the arguments exchanged? What is your appreciation of the fact that Messrs. Isenbaert and Bielen are now approaching the companies concerned and proposing that they might turn against the Belgian State? Do you consider this correct from a ethical point of view, from the point of view of legality and in accordance with your contractual agreements with these two people? What are you going to do about Messrs. Isnbaert and Bielen and the Sintax law office to give up their plans to intervene as legal counsel in the excess profit ruling case? Has your firm ever worked with the Sintax office? When? On what files? After what selection procedure? For what amount of fees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u101	Minister, a while ago, our group was able to look up the fact that two of your ex-officers are promoting themselves with a very rich and well-documented PowerPoint presentation to assist companies in the excess profit ruling procedure. Standard Head: Head of Cabinet changes camp. That was very relative at that time, because it was during the period when you yourself announced that you would initiate proceedings against the European Commission's decision. So they did change their minds, but in substance they stayed in the same camp, because you are opposed to the decision of the European Commission and your former employees are commending themselves for taking part in this fight with companies. I think, and fellow Members have already described it, that this raises questions about deontology. What information do we have? How did they go about it? Would it not be useful to move towards a cooling-off period, as exists at European level, for example? Those are all questions that arise. In any case, anyone who doesn't see the problem is the ex-cabinet chef in question himself. He says: "The law firm that assisted us in the cabinet for the rulings now also works for the companies involved, why shouldn't I? If, as a tax lawyer, I am no longer allowed to take action against the Belgian State or the tax authority, then I no longer have a job." Especially the first one intrigued me. There was also an initial reaction from your cabinet, quite businesslike and without the indignation that was our share. Mr President, first of all, what was the statute and what were the activities of both employees during their period in the cabinet? Have they been directly involved in the excess profit ruling file? For example, did they have the list of companies involved? After all, that would have made their recruitment very easy. Secondly, what agreements are made with farewell employees in a sensitive cabinet such as that of Finance? What about a non-compete clause? Is that what happened in this case? Yes or no? Thirdly, has your cabinet worked with Sintax's office? If so, for which assignments? Fourthly, what legal support does your cabinet or administration enjoy in the file of excess profit rulings? Which offices have already worked together and are working together? Can you give me an overview? Fifth, is it true that the office that supported the cabinet now also works for the companies involved? At least that's what your ex-cabinet chief has declared in the media. If so, which office? What actions have you taken in this regard? Sixthly, are you planning additional measures to avoid such matters or potential conflicts of interest in the future? I look forward to your answers to this rather more than significant problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u102	Mr. President, Minister, two people who have passed through your office are now active in a law firm specializing in tax law and, in addition, in matters they have had to know when working at your service. It is not so much on the personal aspects raised by my colleagues that I would like to question you as on a question of principle. Indeed, this situation is a potential source of conflict of interest and raises the question of the ethical rules applicable to members of ministerial cabinets as well as to members of government themselves. Moreover, it arises for all the executives. In April 2011, the European Commission published a code of conduct for Commissioners. The members of the current French government have also subscribed to a charter of ethics. Minister, what about Belgium? Do you think that the fact that former members of your firm are now tax lawyers is a possible source of conflict of interest? Do you share this fear? What do you intend to do to prevent this from happening again? Are you in favour of a code of ethics that would apply to cabinet members and, why not, to ministers themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u103	Minister, I believe that we, as Mandataists-politicians, should do as much as possible to maintain the confidence of citizens in politics. We must not do things that increase the already existing great distrust of the citizen in politics. This could put citizens' confidence in politics further at risk. I am asking this question because I believe that we should be as careful as possible to deal with potentially unwise matters. That's an understanding of lawyers' deontology. Unchosen cases or unchosen acts can be a problem for a lawyer to act on a particular file. I believe that this could be a touchstone to judge the case. I believe that it would be a choice as a minister to impose a number of rules on cabinet employees in order to maintain the confidence of citizens in politics. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. First, can you clarify to what extent the relevant cabinet staff were involved in the file on excess profit rulings? Did the cabinet employees in question handle that file? If they have dealt with the file themselves for the government and then in a law firm, then the argument is even stronger. The concept of "onkies' is often used as a touchstone of the deontological rules in a law firm. Secondly, do ex-office employees have non-compete clauses or certain confidentiality clauses on concrete files they have worked on? If not, will you work on this? It seems advisable to me to do so. How will you do that? Thirdly, do there exist deontological rules for cabinet employees and ex-officers? If not, will you work on this? How do you see that? Will you also raise that aspect with the entire government? I assume the same can happen in other cabinets. The question arises as to whether, where appropriate, a general rule can be drawn up on the basis of the file in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u104	Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, a minister is attracting staff for his or her cabinet who, of course, need to have as much expertise as possible in the field concerned. People from the administration and people from the private sector can be called upon to do so. For the latter, working for a cabinet means that they opt for an uncertain and by definition temporary job. These are temporary contracts which, by definition, will also come to an end. Afterwards, the person must find another job in the regular labour market. That is the case at the moment. It used to be, and I feel like it's gonna stay that way. I'm a little surprised at the reactions and the questions. I hear outrage that there is no non-compete clause. That never existed in my knowledge. Apparently that wasn't a problem in the past and now it is. I would like to politely ask the representatives of the various groups who are asking specific questions about this today for some introspection. Last week in Parliament, the Prime Minister proposed to commission the Federal Ethics Commission to address the issue today on the table. I fully support this proposal; there is no doubt about it. I will now provide answers to the more specific questions. What were the duties of Mr. lsenbaert and Mr. Bielen? They were respectively director and deputy director of the strategic cell of my office. During what period were they employed by the Strategic Cell? They were there, together, from the establishment of the firm in October 2014 until mid-March 2015. Why was the cooperation terminated? This was done by mutual agreement, and of course everyone is free to move their career in a certain direction at certain times. Did the data subjects have access to the EPR files? You know that the file on excess profit rulings has been going on for a long time. Both gentlemen were indeed involved in the construction, but the Commission's decision fell into the cabinet almost day by day one year after the end of the cooperation with both gentlemen. A role in the handling of this dossier for the Commission, especially after the Commission's ruling, they have not had a role in the cabinet. Which external agencies are involved in the EPR file procedure through the Belgian State? As indicated in an earlier reply, the Belgian State is advised in that procedure by the specialised agency Clayton & Segura. For the sake of clarity, Mr Vanvelthoven, since it was a quick procedure, the FPS has written seven offices, of which only one has replied, perhaps because other offices were already busy with the companies involved at that time. However, that is my own interpretation, which I will give you for the sake of clarity. Clayton & Segura therefore gives legal advice to the Belgian State in that procedure. Clayton & Segura is currently the only agency working on this. There is none, but there is no link with Mr.Isenbaert and Mr.Bielen. Finally, does my cabinet have contracts or does it work with the Sintax office? No, no way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u105	Minister, of course we know that everything in politics is temporary in nature. That goes for your job, for my job, and for the office staff's job as well. If I don't get any more trust from my constituents in a next election, I'll go back to work at the front desk, or whatever, because I was a lawyer. So that is obvious; that was not my point. The point is that it is precisely about a cabinet member who was working on a very specific dossier, and also a file that is in the spotlight. For the Belgian State, it is about a lot of money and Europe is also interfering. Just in that file a cabinet employee switched to the private and so was communicated about it. So the person concerned is now on the other side and will challenge this. That's a problem. I assume, in the period when you are Minister, that cabinet members sometimes face a different challenge. What I am referring to, however, is a specific dossier on which a cabinet member has cooperated and which is now sitting on the other side of the table. You say you support the Prime Minister on the Federal Deontological Committee. However, I expected you to say today that you do not consider such a transition to be entirely deontological.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u106	Minister, you state that no one has ever cared about this before you and that everyone has to ask questions. But in my view, there has never been a Chief of Staff who has been so unethical and disrespectful of the interest of the government institution. It was because a proactive and aggressive approach to the government and the federal state was undertaken that we identified the issue. Imagine someone from the private sector who left his company and who, six months later, proceeded by saying, "I'll tell you how to put this company in trouble." It is simply unimaginable, and that is why we have reacted. Of course, the collaborators of the firms have a career after the one they do in the firm, and they have the right to work, but they also have a natural duty – which does not seem natural either in these two people or in your home, obviously since you cover them – not to fail on an ethical level. I was the one who was questioning the Prime Minister last week on the file. It also covered these practices widely, which I was surprised to hear, although he said that there was probably room for reflection in the Ethics Commission. We are faced with a particularly disturbing case. We have to keep working on it. Our group wants to go beyond denunciation. We will propose a form of cooling off period after a function in a firm, as it exists in the administration. I thought a little naively that it was not necessary to write it, and that the members of the cabinets were servants of the state. In this case, this is not the case. This attitude is unfair, I regard it as such and I denounce it. I've done it through the press and I'm also doing it here in front of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u107	Minister, one more element to clarify. You are now working with Clayton & Segura, but your former Head of Cabinet says that in the past you have also worked with an office that now works for the companies involved. That's what he said in the press. I read you the quote: "The law firm that assisted us in the cabinet for the rulings now also works for the companies involved. Why shouldn't I be allowed to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u108	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u109	You don't think that's right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u110	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u111	Yes, but he was only head of your cabinet, and you didn't take him from Koen Geens. He says: "The law firm that assisted us in the cabinet for the rulings now also works for the companies involved. That's what he says in the press. Normally, he should know who...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u112	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u113	No, I'm not asking...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u114	(...) That's my guess. I don't know which law firms work for which companies. I just have a hunch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u115	You have outlined the current situation. What attracted my attention is the statement by your ex-cabinet manager that at the time they worked in the Van Overtveldt cabinet with a law firm that now works for the companies. If you deny it, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u116	I can't take responsibility for him. Should he still be my head of the cabinet today, I would of course accept my responsibility for his statements, but he has been gone for more than a year now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u117	You don't have to take responsibility. On the contrary, I hope you deny that a law firm that has worked for you on the rulings now works for the companies involved. If you say that you are now working with Clayton & Segura and that you have never worked with other offices, I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u118	The Minister was clear in his position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u119	I'll finish my reply. I am adding to Mrs Smaers, for example, who said that this is not kosher.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u120	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u121	Okay, well, then, I'm gonna translate that as "non kosher".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u122	Mr Calvo, you must not interpret anyone else's words. What you say yourself and what someone else says, someone else says. In TV debates, you always interpret someone else's words.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u123	What I have learned today is that Mr Calvo absolutely cannot appreciate it if something happens to be said in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u124	I'm rounding up. We don't just dig things up, we don't just play cards. My group also has a text ready, also in response to the Prime Minister's reply, to move towards a cooling-off period, especially for senior cabinet staff. They have a great deal of crucial information, even the list of companies. To approach them afterwards, I do not think that kosher is really unwelcome or translated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u125	Minister, in the question, I have spoken in moderate terms and I want to keep this moderation of tone, because I do not want to make you a trial of intent or to play the role of the white knight or the prosecutor, but I must admit that your astonishment surprises me. The questions we're asking you are not bad. They are legitimate and the fact that you do not seem to perceive their relevance is somewhat disturbing. You also tell us that you trust the Ethics Commission. I too, as long as it is not a way of sending the problem in! I would like more proactivity from you, because there is a real problem. It may be punctual and therefore circumscribed. But beyond the present situation, there is a real ethical and ethical difficulty. I would like you, on the basis of the opinion of the Ethics Commission, to submit to us quickly concrete proposals which will enable us to tackle this difficult problem and lay down safeguards so that we are no longer confronted with these conflicts of interest. It would be to the honor of your firm and your department to set rules that employees would be asked to apply and abide by very strictly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-20-54-commissie-ic390x.u126	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are right to say that this is not a single case and that there are no general rules for cabinets. It is, of course, true, Mr Vanvelthoven, that this is not limited to cabinet employees, but that many in the political style have an uncertain job. However, I would like to point out that the deontology of lawyers could be a good example to use at cabinet level, especially in order to maintain confidence in politics and to take away all appearances of innocence. This is in the interest of politics and of ourselves. Therefore, it would be good to look at as much deontological code as possible.
