ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u1	First of all, I wish you all a fruitful political year and a beautiful year in the private sphere. On the agenda is only the order of business. I have been asked by various groups to invite both ministers and Mr Bens of the FANC this afternoon, following the recent incidents, and I thank them for being here in this short space of time. There should be no mention of a reporter, because the service of the Integrated Report is present; that is easy. I propose to give the floor to Minister Jambon, who is responsible for security, for a first statement, and then to hear the explanations from Minister Marghem and Mr Bens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u2	Mr President, in my turn I wish you all a wonderful 2016 with a lot of energy, nuclear and others. Everyone fills that out as he or she wishes. You asked me to explain in this committee a number of minor incidents that have occurred on the sites of our nuclear power plants and which have received a lot of media attention. If Parliament asks me to do so, I am happy to do so, but above all I want to put the seriousness of these nuclear safety incidents in the right perspective. That's my role and my job. As far as the technical details are concerned, I will give the floor to Mr Bens of the FANC. After all, he is best placed to explain the scope of the incidents from a more specialised point of view. The policy line of the government and of myself is to follow the advice of the FANC in all their nuances and in its finality, because we believe that the FANC is best placed as an independent and competent agency to make the assessments. However, as a responsible minister, I will be happy to share my views on the situation with you. It is true that in a relatively short period of time a number of incidents have occurred, requiring the temporary shutdown of some of our nuclear power plants. On 18 December, an incident took place at Tihange 1 power plant. This plant was automatically shut down due to a fire at the power supply level in the non-nuclear part. The plant was restarted on December 26, just after Christmas. The Doel 3 power plant was manually shut down at Christmas due to a leak of water at the water supply circuit leading to the power generator. Subsequent analysis revealed a defect in the welding of the circuit. The circuit breaker connecting Doel 3's alternator to the high-voltage network also seemed to be a problem. More recently, on Saturday 2 January, the Doel 1 power plant was automatically shut down after a problem at the alternator level. After two days, the operator Electrabel was able to restart this plant. I have noticed that these incidents have been dealt with extensively and widely in the media, which is quite understandable since they are our nuclear power plants. I always listen to myself when it comes to incidents in Doel or Tihange. I take this opportunity to put things in perspective. It was clear from the outset that each time there were relatively minor incidents in the non-nuclear part of our plants. The problems have arisen in terms of the elements which are sometimes necessary for electricity generation but which have no impact on the safety of nuclear installations. Such minor incidents occur regularly. In itself, there is nothing worrying about this. One can speak of an automatic shutdown per reactor per year, on average. Such an automatic stop, such as the one we experienced twice during the end of the year, is an integrated security mechanism. During each irregularity, the reactors cut off in order to guarantee the maximum safety of the installations. The communication about these automatic stops is much faster and more fluid than before, attracting more media attention. What happened to us is far from abnormal. It is important to take into account the particular period of time that we are in, that is, a crucial period during which it was a coincidence that four of our plants had been restarted after a relatively long period of inactivity. The risk of shutting down is thus even greater. I would like to point out that every element of the chain will be re-tested at the start-up of a power plant. If the plant shuts down, it proves that the security checks are working. We should be glad from a safety point of view that all these checks are built in because they ensure that no risk is actually taken and that, if there is any doubt, immediate action can be taken. It is of course the case that the more alarm procedures are built in, the more often one gets an alarm. One is, in my opinion, proportionate to the other. That's just like in the car. Nowadays there are incredibly many lights that point to all possible elements of the car. It is therefore common for one of those lights to light up. However, it is not because one of these lights is going to light that one must immediately disconnect one's car. Such a light does mean that one has to go to the garage for a possible check-up. In the case of our nuclear power stations, the FANC monitors this flow. I said earlier that I follow them very strictly in their analyses. I hear in the media some say our power stations would be old and worn out. I would like to strongly contradict that. Many plants in the neighbouring countries, for example Borssele in the Netherlands, are much older than ours. In the meantime, many parts have been replaced in our power stations. There is really no question of nuclear insecurity. I would urge the people who, apart from a few specialists themselves, are unable, of course, to be unduly concerned about this. Please, let's not play games around here. I have also heard that from our neighbouring countries, namely the Netherlands and Germany, there are worrying questions from municipal councils and all kinds of governments. I will talk to my fellow ministers responsible about this shortly. For example, we already had an exchange between the Netherlands and Belgium on the Doel site scheduled for 20 January. That is not because of the incidents, this was recorded weeks ago. We will therefore carry out a cross inspection in Doel on 20 January, together with the Netherlands. The competent Dutch minister will be present. This will happen as we have often done with France in previous years. As we actually systematically do with France, we will also organise those cross-checks with the Netherlands. This morning I sent a letter to my German colleague to make him the same proposal. Their nuclear agency can then, together with our nuclear agency........................................................................................................................................................................................... I sent that letter this morning. This was due to the reaction from Germany in the last few days. The first visit was already planned for reactions from the Netherlands. This proposal to Germany was, however, a result of the reactions of the last few days in Germany. Such exchange programmes shall not merely provide an additional external view. These programmes also enable inspectors to learn from each other's methods and, if necessary, to take on good practices from their foreign counterparts, so that they can be implemented in their own countries. Ladies and gentlemen, that was my view on the series of minor incidents in Doel and Tihange that I wanted to share with you today. I myself and, above all, director Jan Bens of the FANC are of course willing to give more explanation, should that be necessary. For more technical explanations, I would like to give the floor to Jan Bens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u3	Mrs Marghem, do you have anything to add at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u4	Mr President, first of all, I wish the members of the committee and the people here a generous and energy-filled 2016 year, since energy is important to everyone, whether nuclear or otherwise. My colleague is responsible for nuclear safety and security. We share, as well as the government, the principle of the independence of the AFCN and its views, which we scrupulously follow. It is she, the nuclear gendarmerie, who guides us through her decisions on the nuclear park in terms of safety and security. These power plants exist for the generation of electricity in our country. They are affected by incidents, particularly recently, which is normal in facilities of this size. These incidents may affect my department, which is focused on the security of electricity supply and the proper functioning of the electricity market. The problem we have is not new. It is due to a media and political perception of reality which must be reconciled, on the basis of objective elements, with the reality of the availability of power plants. All I'm dealing with is the availability of power plants on a circuit. In this context, I have already had the opportunity to send a letter to Electrabel and EDF Luminus asking them exactly what the impact of these incidents was on the security of supply and the proper functioning of the electrical system. It should be recalled that, since 2011, the European Regulation REMIT requires the publication of incidents in full transparency. It requires players to communicate to the market, in the interests of transparency, any production gap of more than 100 megawatts. I have to point out that this is market-oriented, for market-related reasons and not nuclear safety. Any shutdown, whether scheduled or not, of a conventional or nuclear power plant shall be notified to the market as soon as possible. This information is accessible to all via the Internet, which leads to the dissemination of dispatches and information, and thus control. We fully agree to answer your questions on the subject as best as possible. That is why we immediately accepted your invitation to discuss it. I come to the problem that is being felt today: this publication, which is only financial in scope and relating to compliance with the rules of competition, is interpreted as an indicator of the efficiency of part of the production stock. These transparency bulletins, taken separately, do not say anything about the health of the child. They are only interested in safety issues, which therefore concern technicians and AFCN, and in the proper form and maintenance of the electrical system, which is the responsibility of each operator. In addition, the efficiency of a production stock is measured in a trend way, for example over a year, by analysing different indices such as the availability rate. This advantage of transparency in the context of a well-functioning national and international electricity markets can sometimes give rise to interpretations that obviously deserve our full attention and willingness to respond. In any case, I await the technical response of Electrabel and EDF-Luminus concerning the balance of the grid and the electricity supply, knowing that these incidents affected only the electrical parts of the nuclear power plants concerned. Moreover, as has already been said by my colleague, all aspects of nuclear safety are under independent technical control and supervision by the AFCN. Mr Bens, its chairman, will be able to provide you with some additional technical elements in order to move forward in our exchange of views. Thank you and of course I am at your disposal to answer other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u5	Mr President, as Minister Jambon said, I will go into more detail about the incidents in recent weeks. On 18 December 2015 there was an automatic stop at 22:30 in the central Tihange 1. The reason for this was a fire on an electric divider, a low voltage board, of 220 volts. That's the same tension as most people at home. Because of that fire, a number of devices lost voltage and the power plant could no longer produce. The people of Tihange did repairs and on December 26 the two groups of Tihange were reconnected to the network. On December 25, Christmas Day, Doel 3 was shut down manually, because a water leak was seen in the machinery room. There was a leak in the pipe that was supposed to bring the power water back to the steam generators. It was decided to shut down the plant to repair that leak. The leak was at the height of a welding seam in the pipes. At that time it was also noted that there was a problem in the high-voltage power station with the switch connecting Elijah's power plant to the high-voltage grid. That switch is operated with compressed air. There was a problem with the operation of the compressed air. The compressed air switch couldn't be closed. The power plant could not therefore be connected to the high voltage grid. The repair is still under way. We expect the restart of Target 3 tonight or possibly tomorrow. Then the power plant goes back on the grid. On January 2nd of this year an automatic stop took place in Objective 1. This was due to the arrangement of the alternator with which the electricity is generated. There's a system to validate it. On that system there was a problem, so that the voltage of the alternator could not be properly regulated. It was automatically switched off. After repairing it, Target 1 was put back on the net the day before yesterday. The question arises as to why these judgments took place a few days after the reboot of a tranche. It's not abnormal. These failures occur when there are shut-off transients in the power plant. When a plant runs at 100% for months and everything is quiet, there is no solicitation of the equipment. It is during a start, when the stresses are numerous, that the parameters fluctuate and the defects manifest. Some defects cannot be detected when the power plant is stationary; they are only detected at the time of start-up. What is the impact on safety? The events all occurred in the non-nuclear part, which has nothing to do with the reactor. It can therefore be said that this is not important for safety. Nevertheless, the Agency will examine the situation because it is concerned about how to organise maintenance in the plants. Are the way of working and procedures applied in the same way for the nuclear part? Is there not an almost systemic failure in the treatment of facilities? Our inspectors will conduct these examinations in the coming weeks. You will not find these three or four incidents in our table on the INES scale. The International Nuclear Event Scale hosts events from one to seven, where one is an anomaly and seven is a major accident. These incidents have no impact on nuclear safety and reactor behaviour. Therefore, they are not scaled up and are not prevented from reporting on the INES scale. Mr President, those are the things I thought I should tell you. As I said, I am happy to answer a few questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u6	Thank you, Mr Bens. I'll see who else has any questions. Mr Wollants has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u7	Thank you, Mr President. My best wishes for the new year, too. I am glad that we were able to start the work of the subcommittee immediately. Soon, in the course of the work, there will be a lot of issues in the nuclear field that absolutely deserve our attention. I am very pleased that the ministers and Mr Bens have explained what was really going on. A lot of these things need to be put in perspective for a while. After all, a number of people are using this to put up a story as if an unstoppable series of incidents were taking place in our nuclear power stations, which is clearly not the case. Over the last few days, I have made useless attempts to discuss on the social media what was actually going on and to provide some information that may be a little more technical, but which actually reflects reality. Unfortunately, reactions from that side were not addressed to me. If we see what happened, I don't think it's a nuclear incident. It has been put forward repeatedly as such, but the fact that it is not classified on the scale of nuclear incidents seems to me to indicate that it is a technical error in the non-nuclear part. Such a part is also present on many other power stations, and there are also occasional cases. We also know that other things are claimed by different groups, for example that a lot of radioactivity would have been released and that particles have been distributed to the environment. Perhaps Mr Nollet can come back to that in a moment. It is simply sufficient to consult the data of TELERAD, to know that those claims are simply not correct. There are 18 measuring stations around the Doel plant. None of these measuring stations have triggered an alarm or even measured more than the background radiation. I'd advise everyone to take a look at that in detail. When it comes to the fact that this is yet another incident that should indicate wear and tear, Mr Calvo, perhaps we should look at what is still happening in the area of unplanned shutdowns, for example in non-nuclear power stations. I've made an overview for you. For the niceness I added the small part of 2016 in addition to the year 2015. Each of these shutdowns shall be reported as plants of more than 100 Megawatts. These reports are justified, because the market needs to know how much electricity is or is not available. We have 178 reports of this kind, of adjustments and so on. Of these, 20 messages come from our nuclear power stations and 158 from all our other power stations. It's 38 messages from the hydroelectric plant in Coo. 33 messages come from the CEEC plant in Saint-Ghislain, near Bergen. 21 messages come from the central Shepherd's Bridge in Bruges. 19 reports are about the biomass plant Knippegroeen in Zelzate. From Amercoeur in Liège there will be 18 more messages. I'd like to go on for a while. That is the reality we are talking about, not the fact that the one cessation of Objective 1 has to show that there are all kinds of things going on. Of course it is more interesting for a number of people to talk about this closure than about everything else, but I do not need to underline that. This does not relieve us of the obligation to ensure that these power stations function as well as possible, either classically or non-classically, because we do need those power stations for our security of supply, and that, of course, also has an effect on prices. A few months ago, in committee, we discussed the age of power stations versus classification on the international nuclear and radiological event scale of INES. There would be more incidents in those old power stations. I seem to recall that Mr Bens made it clear to us at that time that this is not the case and that this link does not exist. At the moment we hear Minister Jambon speaking briefly to people about unsafe and unreliable power stations. Mr Calvo, that was specifically about Objective 1 and Objective 2. Mr Bens, you have experience in safety culture and nuclear power plants. On the basis of the reports you have on Objectives 1 and 2, may those plants be called unsafe? Secondly, if we include the average availability of the two plants, because it is of course reported at international level how available power stations are, we can see that Objective 1 had approximately 93 % of availability over the last three years and Objective 2 of 90%. If you compare it with international figures, would you dare to call these power stations unreliable? And what is reliable? Another point is the international context. There is a great deal of concern, which also makes it clear that there is a need for good and sound information, which is delivered first and foremost to the countries concerned, so that they can base themselves on it rather than on the panic spreading of others. After all, I think there is a problem because things are being removed from their context. The Dutch Borssele power station, to which Minister Marghem referred, is 16 kilometres from our border. She is slightly older than Objective 1, she is also slightly larger than Objective 1 and she will also be slightly older than Objective 1, because her life was extended to 2033, when she will have the blessed age of 60 years. It is also quite reliable, it scores just over 80%, although that figure is not entirely fair, because in 2013 there was an incident in the non-nuclear part, where two generators coolers went out for 2.5 months. I am convinced that it is still a reliable plant at 80 %. The planned cooperation with the Dutch is now coming very clearly. I have a number of questions to clarify. We are looking together at the power station in Doel, but I think it is very important that we look in the other direction together, at the power station in Borssele.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u8	It's a cross-exchange. First Goal and then Borssele.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u9	Fine. It's a cross-exchange now. I suppose it is not the first time that they have been given the programme of inspections which the FANC is organizing and which Bel V has already had in the past. What is the evaluation of this prior exchange? What were the results of that? Cooperation with Germany has also been briefly discussed. Yeah, he's on his way. That is a very good thing. There are also the OSART missions that took place both in Borssele, Tihange and Goal. People from other countries are also involved. Do any of the results give rise to any concern? Or have we learned from this mainly about how we will manage things better? In recent days little has been said about the stress tests of a number of years ago. There was a basic protocol which was subsequently strengthened by a number of countries. For example, the Belgian Stress Test Protocol looked different from the original protocol, to which we added a number of things. I understand that this has been done in the Netherlands as well. Is it possible to get more information about this? Are any adjustments comparable or are there differences? The stress tests should also be monitored. Measures must be taken. Will Belgium follow the stress test in the Netherlands? Will we do the same in Germany? That seems to me to be an interesting way of exchanging information, so that we can all get on with it, and this is something that you can take very widely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u10	Mr President, at the outset, I would also like to wish everyone a very good year. It didn't start very well for our nuclear power plants. We've been in trouble for a few years. I would also like to thank the Ministers and the Director, Jan Bens, for coming and responding to the invitation of the PS Group. However, I am a little surprised by your relative optimism. Listening to you, everything's fine, Mrs. Marquise. It reminds me of a song I used to listen to when I was a kid. Everything was falling apart, everything was burning, but everything is fine, Madame Marquise. You have a very positive message, while everyone is worried. Citizens watching the media are worried. Our neighbours and the authorities of other countries are worried. Finally, there's nothing to worry about! Two reactors operate with cracks in the tank. A sabotage at Doel 4 put the nuclear power plant on the ground for months. Besides, we still don't know who sabotaged her. Regularly, fires, small explosions occur. That's normal! It is said that this is part of the daily life of nuclear power plants. Good! Human errors are pointed out by several AFCN press releases. Just go to his website. Reboots are aborted, etc. I think there's still something to worry about! Mr. Jambon, you evoke this similarity with a beautiful car with detection systems everywhere. You are reassured to drive with this vehicle because, as soon as there is a breakdown, it tells you. For my part, if I have such a car that, every five kilometers, tells me I'm out of business, I'm not going to drive long with this one. In this case, the engine is no longer terrible, and perhaps you should also think about checking the tires. We therefore ask ourselves a lot of questions but we do not get many answers and the overall context does not reassure us. You've often said that you're still relying on AFCN's advice. I had also welcomed on several occasions this position that you have held since you were Minister of the Interior. That said, the Agency has lost some credibility over time. In the current context, I would like to recall his director's comments in his article to the print press in June 2015. He said: "Before, Electrabel, it was a box of engineers, where the technique prevailed. We were building beautiful, well-functioning power plants. Now, the most important thing is to make money." From that point on, it is difficult not to question the link between the aging of nuclear power plants and the number of incidents. This question flows from the source, from what has been said, from what has been known. We can only be worried. Of course, we must not scare the population, but we must not be angelic as you seem to be for the time being. There is a need to answer clearly the questions that can be asked in the light of the increasing number of incidents. Is the proliferation of these incidents linked to the aging of power plants? Is it not to relate to the lack of maintenance of power stations by Electrabel, whether nuclear or non-nuclear? A series of incidents are related to fires. On November 30, 2014, a transformer caught fire in Tihange 3. A little less than a year later, on October 31, 2015, it was an explosion and a fire at the Doel site. It was still a transformer. Then, on 18 December, a third fire broke out at the Tihange 1 site. They always occur in the non-nuclear part, always on electrical parts. They are always transformers that are too old, explode or catch fire. A professor at the University of Liège stated that the practice at Electrabel was to use the parts up to total wear and tear. So we don't replace the electrical parts, we wait for them to be defective. Do you confirm this? With regard to the criticisms abroad, you replied about the future joint inspection with the German authorities. That's a good thing. Such an inspection had already been planned with Dutch colleagues. So we can be razed at this level. I hope that this will also reassure our neighbours. For Doel 1 and Doel 2, will the SALTO mission, which was normally planned before restarting, be organised? It's now announced for 2017. It is still not very logical to restart reactors before a SALTO study is carried out, which will check whether the reactor can operate in the long term and which is carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency. This is really a prerequisite for any new activity at a nuclear power plant. More broadly, in the context of the terrorist threat we know, are specific protective and preventive measures taken for our nuclear power plants? Would it not be useful to ask for the army? Is that planned? These are sensitive sites that are potential targets for terrorist attacks. Finally, the sabotage of Doel 4 took place in August 2014. So it's been almost a year and a half. Could this event have been cleared up? Have we identified those responsible for this sabotage? I do not want to interfere with the work of the prosecution, but can you give us some clarification on this? It is worrying to know that we have been able to sabotage one of our nuclear reactors so easily and that today we have no leads concerning the person responsible for this malicious act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u11	Mr President, in my turn I wish you, the ministers and all the members of the committee a beautiful, healthy and energetic year. Perhaps everyone is convinced that nuclear safety is the most important issue in terms of energy issues. We have already held a lot of meetings on this subject. Over the past few days, the media have been filled with all sorts of ominous reports of a accumulation of nuclear incidents. Of course, such a report raises many questions for the people, for our neighbouring countries and, of course, for Members of Parliament. We must, of course, enter into the debate and examine the seriousness of these matters carefully. However, I would also like to call for honesty in the debate. There's no business to be beaten up. People must not be given disinformation. Nor should we unnecessarily panic them. It is therefore a good thing that we are getting the hang of this and that the debate can already take place. That's a good initiative. It is also good that both the ministers concerned and the FANC are present. After all, if one person has a lot of expertise and knowledge and can give objective figures independently, that is definitely the FANC. I am therefore pleased that the Minister once again clearly underlines that we will continue to follow the FANC in this matter. Security is paramount and the FANC must guarantee it. A lot of questions have been asked. I will try not to repeat myself, so that every Member can still be mentioned. In all relevant media reports, the operator has also made a number of statements. I would like to check these statements against the figures that the FANC may be able to give. Electrabel has communicated, among other things, that the number of incidents in nuclear power stations is falling compared to previous years. It has also stated that the number of automatic shutdowns is also falling. It is also important to note that our plants are among the top ten of the most secure power stations in the world. I would have liked to know from the FANC whether this can be demonstrated by objective figures. Those falling trends, is that reality? Are there graphs of that kind? How can it be objectively measured whether our plants are actually among the ten most safest plants in the world? I would like to have objective figures in the debate. I therefore hope that the FANC can give them to me. I have a lot of questions about the incidents themselves. However, most of them have already been made by previous speakers. It is important that both the FANC and the Minister have stated that there has been no impact on nuclear safety. It is important that this is repeated loud and clear. Other messages have been published in the media. We must therefore stress this once again. There has recently been a discussion in committee on a problem with the safety culture in Tihange. Here too, the FANC reacted immediately and imposed a number of measures. When I heard about the incidents, my first thought was whether there was another problem with the security culture and whether that was one of the causes of the incidents. It has just been said that this is not the case. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have seen that clarified again. Above all, what is the state of play of the action plan imposed on Tihange? Are there or are there not still problems with the safety culture at the moment? I come to the international context. Not only internally there were many questions; also from the neighbouring countries there were quite a few questions and comments with criticism from Germany, France and the Netherlands about the safety of our power stations. As mentioned above, the criticism from the Netherlands seems to us to be somewhat misplaced. Borssele was also extended, as already mentioned, and if something goes wrong there, it also has an impact on our country. However, we are not involved in this, which is why we find this misplaced. However, it is a good thing that there is consultation, that inspection teams are involved and that it is not a one-way exchange. Our experts will also be able to go there, whatever happens to Germany and France. It is good that this initiative for more consultation is being taken. Then there is the communication of the FANC. A number of recommendations on more transparent communication were drawn up in 2003. The FANC responds to this, in the sense that if there are incidents, they are communicated and there are directives. However, are there international agreements on this? Each country has its own control organisation and the question is whether it works according to the same directives, or does the way it works vary from one country to another? If we compare countries on incidents, I would like to know whether we are talking about the same thing, so that we do not compare apples with pears. Finally, a question about the Disaster Plan. We have already asked questions and discussed them with the Minister for the Interior. If an incident were to occur, which hopefully never happens, which means that the Disaster Plan has to be activated, then it is important that this has been updated. I know this is one of the to dos for 2016. I would like to have a roadmap, a state of affairs or the timetable for how this will continue and how it will be communicated to citizens. It is very important to inform everyone correctly about incidents, so that everyone knows how to react or what measures to take. That is why I call for swift clarity and transparency. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister and Mr Bens for coming to the committee and, above all, remember that there was no impact on nuclear safety, that nothing worrying or exceptional has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u12	Mr President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I, of course, wish you the best for 2016. Let us hope that in many ways it will be a better year than 2015. I won't add another word to that. Mrs Dierick, you said just now that it is a good thing that the debate is being conducted fairly and openly. I fully agree with that. We must do that, and we can expect it from ourselves as Members of Parliament and certainly from the ministers. I am rather surprised, Minister, and not just about the way you minimize the incidents. I'm not an engineer. It will be true that the incident took place in the non-nuclear part and it will be true that it is mechanical incidents, but you cannot deny that the incident is not directly but indirectly related to nuclear energy. You also say, Minister, that Objectives 1 and 2 are not so old after all. May I point out that Objectives 1 and 2 are among the oldest nuclear reactors in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u14	Okay, you found one more nuclear reactor that's a little older. However, if you look at all the power stations in the world, ours are indeed among the oldest. That's what I've just seen in statistics. You are actually insinuating, just like Mr Wollants, that the opposition and the media, in particular, are knocking things on their shoulders and worrying people unnecessarily. It is more about how you and your fellow Members deal with the matter. After all, you deny that there are questions with the people and in Parliament, and certainly with experts. The most recent newspaper articles from last weekend, yesterday and today were not written by the opposition or just any journalist, but by experts who all have questions about the incidents that have occurred in the power stations. If you go over it so lightly, it gives you cause for concern. We cannot do that and must dare to face the truth. Minister, Minister, it would be fair if you acknowledged that truth. Firstly, you say that there is a certain level of operation in nuclear energy. The last two years have shown that this is clearly not the case. This old form of energy generation is unreliable. We have had power stations that were shut down for months and power stations that were started and shut down immediately. This is a form of energy from the past that today is unsure of business. Secondly, you cannot deny that there is a safety risk in nuclear energy. The many incidents throughout the world have already demonstrated this in abundance. It would be fair to acknowledge this. Thirdly, you always argue that Objectives 1 and 2 should be reopened because our energy security, our energy supply, is otherwise under pressure. In recent months it has been demonstrated, not by the opposition, but by experts, that this is not necessary at all, that Objectives 1 and 2 should not be started. Again, it would be fair to say that you acknowledge this. Colleagues have already pointed out that the experts and the population have a lot of questions. It is your job to answer them as best you can. My fellow Members have asked very technical questions. I won't risk it, but I have a few other questions. The first question is very important to me. You say you always follow the FANC. I think that is the right starting point. It is strange that the FANC says that EUR 700 million of adaptation work must be done before the start-up of Objectives 1 and 2, but that it will take three years to do so. That's very strange. Following the incidents in Fukushima, safety standards have been tightened. In order to meet these safety standards and in order not to run a safety risk, a number of adaptation works need to be carried out if we are to restart. I am addressing you, Mr Bens. The FANC says that these adaptation work must be done, but that it takes three years to do so. These are elements that do not really reassure the people. You say that something must be done and that there may be a risk, but you say that you have some time to deal with that risk. I would like to hear how it is that you have three years to do so. These power stations can apparently be restarted without complying with these safety standards. My second question concerns liability insurance. How's that going? Mr and Madam Minister, together with the majority of my fellow Members, you are convinced that our nuclear power stations are very safe and that nuclear energy is still the energy of the future. However, we must note that no insurer worldwide is prepared to take the risk and to provide insurance. That actually means that not the operator is responsible, but that we are all responsible together if anything ever happens. I would therefore like to know what progress has been made with this liability insurance. I also want to know whether the State guarantee still exists. Our position on this is that insurance must be unlimited and that insurance must be at the expense of the operator, not at our expense. Again, if you and the operator Electrabel are so convinced that there is no risk, then it can be no problem to assume that liability. Mr and Madam Minister, third, I would also have liked to have had a state of play on Objective 4, in particular on the incident in Objective 4. Do you know exactly what happened and who is responsible for it? In this context, I would also like to know how our nuclear power stations are now protected against any attack. Mr Thiébaut has just referred to it and it is also my third question. Mr and Madam Minister, that is how I come to my final question. A long time ago, Mr Vande Lanotte asked that the FANC should be able to provide a list of all incidents. By all incidents, we mean not only the nuclear ones, which are of course the most important ones, but certainly the other incidents. Until today, as far as I know, we still haven't gotten that list. I therefore ask whether that list can be delivered to this committee. My main question is about the adaptation work. They cause a great deal of concern to the people. How is it possible to set up a nuclear power station without the required adaptation works being carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u15	Mr President, allow me to speak in German. Ich wünsche Ihnen das Allerbeste für 2016, viel Energie und Frieden; meine besten Wünsche für die Kolleginnen und Kollegen. As you know, Madam and Mr Ministers, I come from a border region with Germany. The press in this country has been moved by the dangers that Belgian reactors could pose. That was already the case a few months ago. I also had an echo during this Christmas truce, as the latest events raised new concerns. Thank you for being with us to discuss recent incidents and shed light on their origin. We need to be concerned about nuclear safety and to do so seriously and rigorously in this committee. It is also important, I insist, to give up this logic for fear that some are trying to develop for political and ideological purposes. Terms such as Schrottreaktoren or (...) Reaktoren are often used. They obviously scare the population. That is why clear, serious and reassuring communication is essential. I am delighted to have some answers in this direction, even though I still have a few questions. You explained to us that the incidents occurred in the non-nuclear part of the power plants. It was time to talk about it with a view to putting an end to this form of psychosis widespread in some parts of our country. I am also pleased that you have considered a cross-visit with your Dutch and German counterparts and I hope that Belgium will be invited to see the safety features installed in the power stations of our two neighbours. This is also the subject of one of the questions I would like to ask. Do national directives and safety rules, in force in safety bodies in countries that use or produce nuclear electricity, diverge from one country in Europe to another? Are they the same? The answers to these questions would clarify some things with our neighbouring countries that are critical of us because of recent incidents. I know there have already been partial answers, but I would like to know if the incidents are due to a lack of regular maintenance? This has been reported by some media. Are they of different origin? Were power plants still regularly maintained despite the fact that the 2003 law provided for a gradual exit from nuclear power? I would point out that we still intend to stick to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u17	I don't need your remarks, sir! My opinion is the same as that of the Reform Movement. So everyone is reassured. If you want to laugh, go ahead! I will continue my questions. Mr Bens, would it be possible to inform us of the date on which we will be able to dispose of the findings of the AFCN investigation into the last three incidents? Furthermore, according to AFCN, the maintenance and control procedures currently applied in the so-called non-nuclear facilities at the Doel and Tihange power plants are sufficient to ensure optimum re-activation of the Doel 1, Doel 2 and Doel 3 reactors. Can you confirm that, Mr. Bens? Madam Minister, could you please let me know what the impact of shutting down the Doel 3 reactor, which is still out of service to date, and the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors, is on our electricity production? With regard to the planned exit of nuclear power plants and the possibility of unplanned shutdowns of the plants in question, what measures do you intend to take in the short, medium and long term to ensure that our security of supply is strengthened? This question can of course be raised in the Committee on the Economy, but I would like you to give us a few leads on this. So far, my preliminary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u18	Mr President, I agree with the New Year's wishes of the ministers, Mr Bens and my fellow Members. I wish you all a fruitful and healthy new year. I hope that we will be able to find each other in this committee every once in a while over the next year. I note that 2016 is already starting to look very much like 2015 and also 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010. I must say that I am a little tired of having to go through meetings like this. Mr Jambon, I am fed up with the fact that our engineers, the whole entrepreneurship in our country, the political talent present here, have had to deal with leaking barrels, cracks, sabotage, a lack of safety culture, power stations that are dropping more and more. I think this country deserves better. I had another meeting in this Chamber in 2011, post-Fukushima. There were other people back then. One of the promises that was made at the time was the nuclear emergency planning that had to be adjusted. Today, we read that our Minister for the Interior has not yet managed to correct this nuclear emergency planning. I am very tired of constantly having to talk in this committee about the nuclear problems, about the whims of our power stations and the lack of effectiveness shown by both ministers in this matter. I fully agree with you that we do not need to panic as a result of the recent incidents. Over the last few days, I've been actively consulted by foreign media. I have always given the double message that there is no reason to panic, the power stations are stationary and controlled, albeit by an ex-director from the same power station, but in fact I understand the concerns and concerns. There is therefore no need to panic, but there is a reason for concern, just because of the succession of incidents, of the leaking vessels, of the unsolved sabotage, of the lack of safety culture on the Tihange site. I quote the FANC: because our Minister for the Interior has not yet adjusted the nuclear emergency planning despite the promise made a few years ago. There is therefore cause for concern. There's no need to panic. I want to repeat that to the grave. There is no need to panic, thank goodness. There is, however, cause for concern. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I regret that because you have done the most assertive thing that you are about to open up today to media and journalists reporting about it. If you say it's overt, that it's overt and that the newspapers are full of it, I regret it. If your own communication and the communication of your agency were wrinkleless, you might still have the right to speak. I regret, however, that you are here today trying to kick the media's conscience. Let's go over the list of people who've been worried. Mr Wollants, the German Länder are not Greenpeace activists. The Dutch municipalities have no absolute majority of socialists and greens. The Luxembourg purple-green government with a liberal prime minister has been worried about Belgian nuclear policy for months. Those aren't goat wool socks. Many people are asking questions about this country's nuclear choices, about a number of incidents, about a number of things that continue to accumulate. Mr Jambon, I would like to put things in the right perspective, but I would like to invite you to do so myself. Together with me, you can say that there is indeed no need to panic, but there is cause for action and concern. You can say that you understand that concern rather than opening it up to the media and others who are right to raise things. Mr Bens, I do not want to pin you on a word, of course, but you mentioned a fire in the context of Tihange 1. I note that the government and the FANC actually like to use diminutive words. It was about cracks, fires, incidents, problems and leaks. Again, there is no reason to panic, but in such cases, when the diminutive words are mentioned, people are minimized and the people who are concerned are laughed away in part. I believe that the nuclear problem deserves better than that. I have a number of specific questions for Minister Jambon. As for the incident of December 25th, the Christmas incident in Objective 3, I understand that it was a manual stop after detecting a water leak. This means that, unlike the other incidents, this was not an automatic stop. Can you tell me a little bit more about that? It is my interest and my concern that, if I understand correctly, one has had to visualise that there was a problem and that it was only then that one could stop the operation, while in other cases it was automatically done. In my view, this is not an insignificant nuance, which needs to be questioned. How come the automatic safety systems didn't act immediately? Secondly, Mr Jambon, I can honestly understand the concern of the Dutch about Objective 1 and Objective 2. Of course, there must be some modesty there. You are right to say that Borssele 1 was renewed without an environmental impact report. I would remind you that, when there were plans around Borssele 2, there was a very extensive public investigation. Our Dutch friends must therefore show a certain modesty, but you must understand, with the whole debate on the environmental impact report and public research, that one feels a little disappointed, especially the local authorities. You're also the mayor of the city. What would you be like, as a civilian father, if something important were to happen nearby, namely the extension of a plant for 10 years and you do not have the opportunity to express your opinion on this in the context of the public investigation? That concern in the Netherlands is normal, also because the international review, which should normally be carried out with a SALTO mission by the International Atomic Energy Agency, did not take place before the actual lifetime extension, for the first green light of the FANC. You must understand that this extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 raises questions abroad. In addition to the cross-inspections, which I welcome, you must do something else, namely to speed up the SALTO mission and actually place the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 on hold until there has been a genuine control by the International Atomic Energy Agency. If you want the power stations to be extended for 10 years, if you hope to convince your neighbors to do so, you must follow the standard procedure. Mr Bens, like the agency, has always advocated this procedure at the time, but now suddenly it is being abandoned again, which in turn undermines the credibility of the agency. Mr Jambon, third there is the sabotage to Objective 4. You tend to engage very actively in certain judicial investigations. You're communicating very actively about the terrorist investigations. There is a regular forum to which you are invited, you give an update there, you tell us that you are looking, that you are working on it, and occasionally you even clap out of confession and are then flogged back by the federal court. I'd like to list it, it's a different theme, it's not about nuclear safety, but I'd like to list it. In the terrorist investigation you are hyperactive and the federal prosecutor must hurry to be first and to be correct, but we do not hear anything about the sabotage of Objective 4 a few months ago, August 2014. The questions put by several fellow Members, including the majority, are therefore very logical. That raises questions. The actual problem has still not been identified. I would like to ask you to show the level of activity, the need for communication and the openness that you show in other dossiers, and it is clear that they are appreciated in this case too, which is also a fundamental investigation and a matter of national security. I have a specific question. Mr Bens, you announced that you would give a scoop following the rebooting of the crack reactors, in particular that the enhanced safety conditions would be included in the Royal Decree. The new conditions would therefore be included in the permit conditions and the operating licence of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. That was new. That didn't happen before. As a result of rebooting, this was not translated into a royal decree. That's what you announced at the time. I then supported and applauded that and did not embrace you just for that. Did that happen today? How will the new reinforced security measures on Objectives 3 and Tihange 2 be actively followed? I have four more questions. I must honestly say that it is not appropriate in the field of nuclear safety to play between countries. That's not good. It's a good thing you're inviting people. You'll do the same to the Germans. That is a good thing. I take a small step, Mr Jambon: the fact that you are now taking action shows that you yourself feel that there is a need for it, when you just said that the media is overreacting and there is nothing going on. You're taking action now. That's right. It also shows that there is reason for action. The visit of the Germans you requested for the cross-inspection, in addition to the cross-inspection of 20 January with the Dutch, is a good thing. However, we must also look further than the incidents. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my earlier plea, in particular to move towards a much stronger European integration of nuclear safety. We must move towards a European super-regulatory body on nuclear safety. Now there are intervisions, Mr Bens has to convene ad hoc international expert committees, cross-inspections are organised, sometimes about power stations that are at a stone's throw from another country. I would like to ask you about this, Minister Jambon, and encourage you to take part in a European safety regulator and a European Nuclear Safety Agency. Finally, I am also looking a little less ahead. Next week, the Business Commission will start discussing the extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2. This is good news: at the moment there is still no formal green light to extend the life of that power station from 1975 by ten years. Next week, we will be discussing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are sufficient elements on the table to call into question the lifetime extensions of Objective 1 and Objective 2 more than ever. Much more than the incidents of the past, I base myself on the reports of the CREG and Elijah on the subject, which clearly show that these plants are not necessary. Madam Secretary, you withheld that report during the first parliamentary discussion of the extension of the lifespan of Objective 1. I also base myself on the vulnerability which we have seen again in the last few weeks. There is no need to panic, but there is a reason for security concerns. Especially the following is incredibly annoying. These are power stations which are regularly failing, which are destroying our energy market and which constantly hypothesize the entrepreneurial opportunities of alternative players. Whether we are green or black-yellow, Mr Wollants, we could agree that such plants should be phased out faster than in 2025. We will express our call in different ways in the coming days. Madam Minister, you can expect a spicy parliamentary discussion. We propose that this mini-step should be taken as a mini-step, because Objective 1 and Objective 2 are the smallest plants of all of them. There are alternatives, which are basically indicated in black and white. Only a government that is in love with nuclear energy wants to extend the lifespan of such power stations. Minister, as a member of a strong, competent, large Flemish party, you have the political strength to take that step, to take the mini-step to close Objective 1 and Objective 2. I'm assuming you can develop that power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u19	Mr. Wilrycx, do you want to ask questions now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u20	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, Mr. Bens, like my colleagues, I wish everyone the best wishes for 2016. With this brace of good wishes, I guess your year can only be a paradise. On these facts, some events have called upon me, as well as the citizens. Questions arise. There have been many incidents in late December and early January, all the more so since, even if we focus on these recent events, there have been others this year, particularly in July and August, at other sites. It is said that this is not abnormal, but I would still like to point out that the power plants have only operated every other day. In proportion to the duration of operation of the plants, the number of incidents is greater than what has been mentioned. Mr Bens, I would like to go back a little bit. On August 3, 2015, you and AFCN sent a pro justitia to the prosecutor of the King of Huy. It's not annoyance. I enjoyed reading you again. You also said: "In the long run, the operator will have to carefully analyze every event of the past year. Improvement measures will then have to be taken, particularly in terms of staff training. Indeed, there is a kind of complacency in the company which is absolutely unacceptable." What conclusions have been drawn from this situation? How have they been implemented? Especially since these events occurred after Doel 1 and Doel 3 were restarted. Another element that I would like to highlight and draw your attention to is the difference between a situation, as you refer to it, normal or exceptional. My colleague, Mr Calvo, also mentioned this. You just used the word "small" fire and it made me startle. When is a fire small or large? Is there a graduation scale? A fire is a fire. Mr. Bens, in relation to this normal, abnormal or exceptional situation in August, you said: "I was asked whether this succession of incidents was exceptional and what we learned from the comparison with the past and other countries. I believe that this is an exceptional situation, but that is not certain. Anyway, I've never personally faced so many technical incidents in such a short time. This is also the first time that AFCN has reacted by a pro justitia." These are elements that challenge the citizen and challenge us as parliamentarians. Based on the operator's experience, it could be expected that he would be aware of the risk of a nuclear or non-nuclear incident. I would therefore like to return to a question that has already been put to you. Is there not a general underinvestment of operators in non-nuclear areas? I ask you this question very frankly and very clearly. Is this not due to an overload of work in view of the sudden recovery of Doel 1 and Doel 2, Tihange 2, Doel 3, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Is there not an overload of work leading to a decrease in the operator's attention and vigilance, as well as under-attention by the AFCN and Bel V? I thus return to your culture of safety, which you have already mentioned at other meetings. Is there not a lack of attention or a "systemic effect"? Mr Bens, you have used these words on other occasions before our committee. You said at the time: "We wanted to spread the message that we were not targeting individual workers but the system itself." Isn't there this kind of sleep in the system? You also used the terms "systemic failure" earlier in your presentation. You imposed an action plan on Electrabel in August for Tihange. It would be interesting to discuss with the committee what has happened, what has happened on the ground. Is this implementation effective? Have you been able to control her? What are the results? I would like you to provide us with a list of the work carried out in the nuclear and non-nuclear zone prior to the relaunch of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Indeed, there is a concern that there is an underestimation of the non-nuclear part of the plants in general. I would have liked to know your perception of this. With regard to the international credibility and concern of neighbouring countries, mention was made of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. It's not the opposition that's worried. It is our neighbouring countries that wonder. We will agree, not all of them are anti-nuclear. In relation to them, it seems to me that we could have more coordination, because we can one day ask ourselves the question of the Europe of energy. Mr Jambon, you mentioned Borssele who has had more problems than others and who is older. It is not because it happens elsewhere that it is reassuring. I draw your attention to these elements. Mr Bens, as part of the follow-up to the action plan promoted by Electrabel, weekly monitoring is carried out by the management of the site. However, they commit themselves to an independent peer and international assessment to assess the effectiveness of the global action plan and its impact on improving the safety culture within their site. When will this evaluation of the effectiveness of the Electrabel Action Plan take place? In the light of the analysis of safety facts and of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 project which will be submitted to the Committee on the Economy next week, is it not time to worry about the energy transition, to move forward on the subject, to propose other elements rather than to head down by considering only one way of working on the issue of energy? Minister, the INES plan and the different degrees of graduation were discussed. In the interests of transparency, should a zero INES plan not be referred to, communicated to AFCN or published on the website of the various organizations? A year ago, my predecessor in this committee referred not to the issue of safety, but to the issue of plant safety. On that occasion, you indicated that there should be no reference to the military intervention to ensure the safety of the power stations. Today, everyone was able to see the presence of soldiers in railway stations, supermarkets, etc. In view of the problem we are currently facing, I wonder whether you have changed your mind on this matter. These are the elements that I wanted to discuss with you on the occasion of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u21	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u22	Wait a minute, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u23	Mr President, if Mr Nollet intervenes after each group has spoken, then it seems to me that it is my turn!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u24	You are not yet a group, even if it is not the opinion of the polls!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u25	We're an unrecognized group. Generally speaking, I always appear in the first round. Perhaps this committee is an exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u26	I'll think about it. Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u27	Madam and Mr Ministers, I will remind you of what Mr Bens said before the holidays. He had said he hoped to be able to close the Doel 1 and 2 files as well as Doel 3 and Tihange 2 before the Christmas holidays in order to be able to take full advantage of them. In view of the decisions taken on Doel 1, 2 and 3 and Tihange 2, he was unable to take his vacation. Nevertheless, Mr Bens, I now wish you my best wishes, even though I know that you have not rested particularly during this period, since the events have followed. In Tihange 1, the transformer presented a problem just before the Christmas holidays, then it was the generator at Doel 3, then the alternator at Doel 1 – we will soon know all the parts of the power plants! One after another, our power plants stopped. You can laugh, of course, and it may be good. But politically, we cannot minimize the facts. You cannot minimize the facts as you currently do. Mr Jambon, I am speaking to you because you have made the most striking comments on this aspect. You cannot say that it is because journalists talk about it that the power stations stop. This, of course, makes no sense. If journalists talk about it, and if citizens are concerned, it's good because the problems are growing. Whether it's the generator, transformer or alternator, whatever. It can be seen that in three weeks three power plants were shut down. What's that revealing? I think this reveals above all what you have already announced to us, Mr Bens, that there is an erasure of the culture of safety and security in favour of the culture of profitability. The heart of the problem is here. To this is added the pressure put by the government to restart these plants very quickly. You know me, it's not my type to turn around the pot. We have a problem with the reliability of our nuclear power plants. Belgian nuclear power plants are the least reliable in the world. To the world! I've got the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u28	In that case, there is a problem, because you will have figures other than those published.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u29	I consulted the numbers because reliability is involved in the fact that there are incidents that are not planned. Of course, it is quite logical that we should stop a plant for a revision. Mr Wollants, please visit the website of the International Atomic Energy Agency. See when there is an unexpected loss of capacity and compare. Check out the reliability figures of our nuclear power plants over the last three years. Unfortunately, Belgium holds the world record in terms of the non-reliability of its nuclear power plants. Mr. Bens, I assume you're not finding out these numbers. Of course, you never mention them. You always refer to INES 1 and INES 2 incidents. But here we are not talking about that, as Mr Jambon has said, we are not in the nuclear safety aspect, we are not in the nuclear part of the incidents. We want to know whether these nuclear power plants are reliable. Apart from the time allocated for updating the plants, do they correspond to what is expected of them, i.e. to produce electricity? Look at the numbers with me! Over the last three years, Belgium has a 20% non-reliability factor. It's the world record!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u30	I am talking about the figures for the lifetime of the power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u31	I have to. But what does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u32	He's changing the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u33	Here, we are talking about unanticipated incidents. In other words, these are power plants that are problematic when no one has considered it. On a global scale, we are in front of Iran. If we go back to history, and that is what concerns me, Mr. Bens, we see that this was not the case before. I'm not saying you should go back there to run the plant. In any case, there was a time when we were better placed. Now, however, we are the least good. These figures come from the IAEA and not from the excellent study service of Ecolo-Groen. You can challenge them, but then you have to be serious. These data relate to unforeseen capacity losses. I understand, of course, that the neighbouring countries are concerned: France stood at 4.6% last year, Germany at 4% and the Netherlands at 4.4%, while we reached 29%. We are the only ones beyond 15% in Europe. The second country is Iran, 20 per cent. Are you proud of this? You don't have a problem with that? The best thing is the United States. You have the number, too. You can always say, Mr Jambon, that there was a problem in Fukushima and that there was no problem in Belgium. Luckily. And you're alluding to Fukushima today. Do you have any answer to that? Mr. Bens and Mr. Jambon, if your car had a 20% non-reliability rate, would you be happy? Would you still say you want such a car? Besides this, the other countries have a percentage of 4 to 5 per cent. What is your answer? What is the explanation you give above all? I say, on the basis of these figures, our power plants are the most problematic in the world. The level of reliability is lowest. Fortunately, this situation has not caused a nuclear accident. But when at some point incidents multiply in the non-nuclear part, I understand that citizens are asking questions and wondering if one day the incidents will not occur in the nuclear part. I understand that and I do not say that it is the fault of journalists or the media that relays this information. These numbers, you never mentioned them. You've always taken the INES numbers. Obviously, these figures only take into account the nuclear part. I now invite you, Mr Bens, Mr Jambon, Mrs Marghem, to give the reasons and explain why Belgium has such a rate, especially in relation to the past, where we were well below average. The global average is 3.8 per cent. We're 20. What is your explanation? Are you able to explain to us why we are facing such a situation of non-reliability of our nuclear power plants? What's this due to? I therefore come back to my question, which is obviously direct. What is the cause of this? What explanation do you give? The assumption I put forward is the one you were already giving at the time, Mr. Bens, that the culture of profitability has taken precedence over the culture of safety and security. It's very clear, it's clear, it's visible in the numbers. But what is more, it is further reinforced by the timetable imposed by the government. Now I'm addressing you, Mr. Jambon. On the basis of these figures, the request we make to you today is very simple. I don't know if you know those numbers. You don't know them, and I know your honesty enough to know you didn't have them. Now that you have them, I ask you to take the time to hear the explanations given to justify these figures. As long as there is not a credible, reasoned explanation of these figures, possibly from Electrabel, I ask you to suspend the recovery operations of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants. Indeed, it is likely that for the nuclear component of the power plants, the measures have been taken. That is why my colleague Mr Calvo and I say that we must not panic. On the nuclear side, we assume that everything has been done. But it is to the detriment of the non-nuclear side, where incidents are multiplying. It is understandable that people are wondering what they would do if it happened in Belgium or outside. And at that point, we'll get those numbers out. I prefer to anticipate and have your answer now. I would ask you to take into account that this problem requires at least a suspension decision, which does not prejudge the final decision. This is for Doel 1 and Doel 2. As far as Doel 3 and Tihange 2 are concerned, we have already had discussions with Mr Bens in early December. We are not satisfied with the answers given. One expert made 10 specific remarks. They are relegated to an annex to your documents, but they are public. In relation to these ten remarks, you have not, at this stage, provided any credible answer. We, the Greens, have therefore requested a scientific counter-expertise on Doel 3 and Tihange 2, which we will deliver to you in a few weeks. We will then have the opportunity to discuss this dossier scientifically again. I will not do it further today. But today, I ask you, Mr Jambon, to take on your responsibilities and at the very least, until you have a credible answer on these elements which prove that our plants are the least reliable in our system, as long as it is not shown that behind these figures there is no real problem, to suspend the extension work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u34	Mr President, when I hear the government, when I hear the colleagues of the majority, I hear that we must not be afraid. Well, I'll tell you I'm doubly scared. First of all, I am afraid of the real risk that exists at our nuclear power plants. But I'm also afraid of this speech that encourages us not to be afraid. In the nuclear field, every incident must be taken seriously. We need to worry about every problem that is detected because it is actually nuclear power plants. They're not ordinary power plants. Mr Wollants said that there were stops in conventional power plants. But it doesn't matter! I do not see the meaning of comparison, since in a conventional power plant, if there is a stop, it is not serious. If there's a stop at Côte d'Or in Halle and there's no more Nougatti, it's no big deal, we'll do it for a while. But when there are technical problems in a nuclear power plant, whether in the nuclear or non-nuclear part, there is cause for concern. And I'm worried that the majority don't worry about it. Mr. Jambon is heard to say that these incidents demonstrate that security measures are working. It is to reverse the problem and, above all, it is not to look at the essential, namely the causes. What are the causes of these recurring incidents? That's where the effort must be. Is this the fault of no luck? That's a little the thesis of the majority. Or are we seriously considering the various possible causes: the age of these plants, a possible lack of investment in maintenance, the possible lack of staff, the excessive number of subcontractors? Perhaps there is too much pressure on workers, too much stress? Or bad working methods? These are different possible causes. There are many of them, and I think we should be able to weigh them one after the other. And I did not hear that in the three speeches that started this session. We are told that the incidents took place in the non-nuclear part and that, therefore, it is not serious. But yes, it's serious. This is serious because what is happening in the non-nuclear part could very well happen in the nuclear part. So, it's serious. It is also serious because whenever there is a problem in the non-nuclear part, the power station must be stopped and it must be restarted. And shutting down and reviving a power plant is also a problem. So, it's doubly serious. I have given a number of possible causes, which can be grouped under the generic term "profit culture", replacing the culture of security. I will not recall Mr Bens' quotes on the evolution of attitudes within Electrabel, but it is a problem. Thus, with regard to the excessive use of subcontracting, Mr Wim Declercq of Electrabel told me that the Tihange plant could employ up to 150% of subcontractors. This is obviously problematic, even if it is mainly the non-nuclear part. It is also understood that Electrabel wishes to recruit 350 workers. Obviously, there are too few personnel. I would therefore like to hear from you in this regard. In addition, Le Soir published an article denouncing the savings that Electrabel had decided on the preventive maintenance of non-nuclear parts. Moreover, this thesis was confirmed on 4 January by energy specialist Damien Ernst. He explained that, given the planned closure of Doel 1 and 2, some of these maintenances had been cancelled last year. Such a lack of maintenance can be logical if one is in a position to close these plants, but that is not the case. Interviews were therefore necessary, but they did not take place. On the other hand, they have been maintained or, at least, tried to keep these plants in operation. So I hope to get answers to my questions. When we don't have old plants in Belgium, we have cracked plants. In this regard, I see the same tendency to underestimate risks. However, in terms of nuclear power, the rule that should prevail is zero risk. Obviously, this is not the case since Professor Walter Bogaerts recently recalled, in De Standaard, the doubtful nature of the interpretation of the AFCN and Electrabel relating to the cracks of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. So, the Belgian government is not worried. The population, on the other hand, is rightly concerned. Germany is concerned about what might happen in Tihange. The Netherlands is concerned about what might happen in Doel. And the Belgian federal government is mainly concerned about the benefits that Electrabel could make and the light nuclear rent that Electrabel could pay. The government should change its mindset and have other concerns, so that we can take greater care of our security rather than worry about the benefits that a multinational energy company can make. I repeat a few questions. Mr Bens, do you agree with the statements made by Mr Jambon, sitting next to you, who says that nuclear power plants do not present any risks in Belgium at present? Is that generally true? Is that true for cracked plants, for old plants and for the three reactors that have had to close? Mr Bens, are you planning to give us an overview of the technical reports on the causes of the latest incidents that occurred? If so, when? I also have a question about the situation of staff. I do not know which of the three speakers I should address this question. What is the situation with regard to a possible shortage of staff? Do you confirm that there is a shortage? How many overtime hours are worked? With regard to subcontracting, my colleague, Raoul Hedebouw, asked the minister a written question, with specific requests as to the level of subcontracting in our nuclear power plants. Can Mr Jambon, the addressee of this question, answer it now? Given the context, that would be interesting. Given all of these incidents and the many incidents that have occurred in the past, further closures may be possible in the future. This means that alternatives are needed. However, in the agreement with Electrabel, only €20 million has been earmarked to invest in alternatives. Isn't this amount ridiculous? This question is addressed to Mrs Marghem. I would also like to refer to the situation in Belgium in relation to the situation in other countries. Mr Bens tells us that we are below the problems seen elsewhere or that Belgium is on average. But Damien Ernst, an energy specialist at the ULG, tells us that there is a period with a very high, abnormal number of accidents. What's the correct version? What answers can Mr Bens bring? Indeed, there are these figures from the International Atomic Energy Agency, which my colleague Nollet also mentioned and which show that Belgium is in the last place for the period 2012-2014. It is interesting to look specifically at 2013. That year, Belgium was not the last in the rankings, it was the penultimate. And what's the last one? The Netherlands for a single reactor, since it only has the Borssele reactor, which is older than the oldest of our reactors. This would suggest that there is a correlation between the age of the plants and the incidents that may occur there. Mr Jambon, I do not think that is an argument in favour of maintaining our old power plants. Rather, I believe that this argument goes in the opposite direction, showing that there is a possible link between the obsolete power stations and the number of incidents that occur there. In conclusion, in view of the situation, it would be logical to postpone the extension of these plants and to wait for a clear view of the causes, to review all possible causes, to close the doors one after the other seriously. It would also be an opportunity to await international reports that Belgium has done or to await reports on the environmental impact that the government is also doing. There are many reasons why these plants are not in operation. When it comes to nuclear power, we don't play with the risk. If there is any doubt, it is important to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u35	Mr President, in my turn, I would like to present to all colleagues, to Mrs Bens and to the press representatives, my best wishes for 2016, especially excellent health and the fulfilment of all our wishes. Personally, it is not the incidents that worry me but the way to react to these problems. What are the reaction times? How does the operator initiate what is necessary to solve the problems? For me, the important thing is how to react and the means available to the operator to solve the problem and ensure the safety and security of the plants. Several colleagues spoke of the public's concern. There's something to do because we're talking about cracks all day long, we're saying that a flow of nuclear material is dripping out of our power plants to create a stream! We mustn't exaggerate. It's always the same! If we talk again in the media about cracks, the citizen lambda is right to worry about it and it's normal. For me, we also need to know whether the maintenance of our power plants is proactive. It was said earlier that parts were replaced when they broke down. There's something to worry about. With Electrabel, we have to see what means are being used to proactively and proactively ensure that what needs to be replaced is done. We mustn't wait for the breakdown. The lifespan of an aircraft is beyond 25 years, but it is made possible by maintenance, even if this does not prevent an aircraft from failing. But that is no reason to abandon aviation as a means of transport and return to balloons! Citizens must be reassured. What about Doel 4? Several colleagues also asked the question. Minister, we should be given an answer because if this remains unanswered, the public might think we want to hide something from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your input. I can tell you that Target 3 was launched today at 13:00. Perhaps that could improve somewhat the figures to which Mr Nollet refers. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u37	There will also be a table for 2016... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u38	Not yet. You will. I will deal with a number of themes. Mr Bens will give the technical answers and Minister Marghem will add a number of additions. Firstly, as far as the international initiatives I have taken are concerned, I have today sent an invitation to Germany. I have not yet received confirmation that Germany wishes to respond to that invitation. So I just wanted to dot the i's in that respect. Mrs Dierick, as far as France is concerned, that programme has been in place for some time now. There is very good cooperation between the FANC and the ASN, the French Nuclear Control Agency. These cross-inspections have been going on for years. As far as Germany is concerned, I will keep you informed of the response of the competent German minister. It is just an invitation and I hope from the bottom of my heart that they will respond to it. I come to the credibility of the AFCN. The government's policy and guidelines, which follow the AFCN in its opinions, have everything to do with the Agency's credibility. I confirm our full confidence in the Agency, at more than 100%! However, I understand the position of some: as long as the AFCN opinion adheres to their convictions, they follow it, but as soon as this opinion no longer adheres to their convictions, its credibility should be questioned! I do not share this position: I have great confidence in AFCN and we follow its view, as I have said on several occasions. I will not return to debates that we have already had in the run-up to the reopening of Objective 1 and Objective 2, such as SALTO. That's done. With regard to terrorism and the protection against terrorism, I am surprised that the PS calls for more military deployment. However, I welcome that call. Indeed, increased commitment is necessary. After all, there is a protocol that allows us to deploy the army on sites, sites and events that have threat level 3. At present, however, the whole country has level 3, with specific attention to major events and places where many people meet. Mr de Lamotte rightly notes that he sees soldiers on a shopping street with a lot of people. The army is also present at major events. At present, the analysis of the OCAD does not indicate in any way that the nuclear power plants are a possible target for terrorist action at level 3. With our own police force, the security of these sites can be ensured in consultation with the operator. As soon as there are indications that the nuclear power stations would also be a target and thus be brought to level 3 by the OCAD, we will also use the military for those power stations. Mr Calvo, I would like to comment briefly on the case for Objective 4. My comment on terrorism is mainly about the measures we take in this area and not about the judicial investigation. For Objective 4, the judicial investigation is still ongoing. If you wish to obtain any information on this at the current stage of the judicial investigation, you should contact Minister Geens and not me. As far as the Roadmap is concerned, it is true that in the Home Affairs Policy Paper for 2016, we have put forward the idea that we will update it this year. When the government took office, we said that this was a project for 2016. This does not, of course, mean that nothing has changed since 2003. There have been points for improvement in every emergency plan exercise. Those points of improvement are also implemented and implemented. For this, there should be no waiting for an amendment to the text of the Royal Decree. From the exercises we learn things and they are implemented. In the meantime, the tools available to the evaluation cell and the measuring cell have often been improved. If it turns out that there are problems with using the forms, these problems will be addressed. The same applies to communication with the local level. The way of communicating with the local level has also been thoroughly adapted and adjusted over the years. At present there is also a liaison officer of the provincial governor present in the crisis centre during the exercises. The emergency plans are therefore constantly being improved. This year, this will result in the adaptation of the texts of the Royal Decree. Mrs Dierick, you asked for a concrete roadmap. I'll get you that. I don't have the specific data on the timing of that right now. Mr Calvo, you mentioned the concept of the Netherlands in relation to Objectives 1 and 2. Of course I understand the Netherlands. I also understand the questions raised in Germany. In temporary non suspecto we took the initiative to do that exchange with the Netherlands. In 2014 there was also an initiative to invite all mayors of the border municipalities in Doel to explain. Yesterday or the day before yesterday I heard on the radio that the Mayor of Bergen op Zoom, for example, was very satisfied with that. I believe that this exchange of inspection teams can further alleviate the concern. Mr. de Lamotte, you say a fire is a fire. Don't talk like that in front of firefighters! If so, they should mobilize all the fire vans they have even when they are called upon to extinguish a small fire. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I do not believe that all fires are identical. Mr Nollet, I had no knowledge of the figures. But I can imagine that the problems encountered at Doel 3, Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2 have an impact. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Marghem, who will answer you on this subject. Mr Bens, for his part, will answer more technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u39	Mr President, I will begin my speech by answering questions about reliability in the semantic and technical sense of the term. Mr Nollet, you have used this word with a constructive ambiguity for your reasoning. The reliability to which you referred must be considered from two angles. Indeed, this term can be used in the sense of nuclear safety. But in this type of file, there is usually a question of availability, namely the ability of the facility to generate electricity and inject it into the circuit. As you surfed on both definitions, I wanted to make that point. The performance of an electrical production unit, whether nuclear or conventional, is measured first of all by its availability rate, i.e. its reliability rate, i.e. its capacity expressed in percentages over a period during which the power plant is available to generate electricity. This rate of availability is affected by the duration of planned revisions, by planned stops for possible technical repairs and by unplanned stops called SCRAMs. The availability, i.e. reliability, has of course been affected by external factors, which have already been the subject of many discussions in this committee and in the Committee on the Economy. Our park suffered these impacts in two ways. The operator decided to stop Doel 3 and Tihange 2 for testing and testing on hydrogen inclusion tanks and to develop its safety file submitted to AFCN, which issued its decision. This shutdown, in order to be able to draw up this safety file, which was examined in full and in large, together with international experts for long months, and whether or not these units, which have not yet reached the age of 40 and which can legally continue to produce electricity, could be returned, had an impact on the reliability/availability of electricity generation in 2012, 2013, 2014 and especially in 2015. Mr Nollet, when you refer to the indisputable chips of the International Atomic Energy Agency of 2015 and which refers to the nuclear park and its availability, we must obviously count with these judgments of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 and with the act of malice that led to the loss of oil on Doel 4 in the second half of 2014. All these events are identified and are not associated in any way with the electrical incidents that occurred during the Christmas period and that may have disrupted Mr. Bens' vacation. If we withdraw these planned stops or the result of malicious acts, it must be noted that the availability of our nuclear fleet, its reliability, its capacity for a certain period of time to produce electricity has been high and stable over the last twelve years and has fluctuated between 82 and 90% depending on the units, with an average of 86%. I am just quoting official figures which I can give you and which we will have the opportunity to share with each other at future committee meetings. However, taking these elements into account – as you did – the availability of the nuclear power plant was heavily affected in 2015. In fact, Tihange 1 was arrested last summer to undertake the work following the decision to extend this unit for ten years. In addition, Doel 1's judgment occurred in February 2015 since, according to the law on the exit of nuclear power stations which had not yet been amended, the plant would reach forty years on the 15th of that same month. The activities of the same unit were still suspended last fall to allow the necessary analysis and work and to obtain the green light of the AFCN for its restart. The shutdown of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 was decided to perform the tests and analyses on the tanks with the hydrogen inclusions I mentioned. This explains very concretely the decrease in the reliability and generation of these power plants, as well as their lower availability and performance in 2015. Hence the statistics used by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The three years you have mentioned are the end of the twelve-year period. The possibility for our nuclear fleet to produce electricity has therefore diminished. When we observe changes over time, we can also compare with neighbouring countries. We have elements in this regard. Subject to different technologies from one country to another, we find that, compared to the global average – which is below 80% – our reliability is higher. In order to compare what is comparable, during the period 2012-2014, the availability factor for pressurized water reactors, identical to the Belgian models, was 77%. Looking at our direct neighbours, I will cite, for example, the closest power plants with pressurized water reactors. For example, in the Netherlands, where closure is planned for 2033, the availability factor for the same period 2012-2014 is 80.6%. In France, Chooz, Cattenom and Gravelines have a rate of 73.9%. In Germany, Emsland and Philipsburg, the rate is 87.5%. I can go on. You can also analyze SCRAMs, i.e. unplanned stops. This is the third element of analysis. When you look at the Belgian nuclear fleet, you see that, on the basis of these unplanned shutdowns, our figure is very favourable. It is 1.1 per reactor per year on average, for the last 16 years. The years 2014 and 2015 saw a downward trend in this figure. But statistically, you know very well, and I repeat, this results from the long-term shutdown of Doel 3, Tihange 2 and Doel 4. This does not alter the underlying trend. As for Doel 1 and 2 units whose life span has been extended, their availability rate is historic. This means that their capacity to supply electricity on the grid is growing by more than 90%. For the period 2012-2014, which you pointed out, this rate is 93.8% for Doel 1 and 90.8% for Doel 2. I agree with you: when we want to analyse the facts seriously and stay close to the legitimate fears of the people of neighbouring countries, who have been relayed in the press, we must look at all the elements and go to the bottom of the problems and concepts. At times, it should be noted that certain concepts must be handled with particular sensitivity. The term "reliability", in our vocabulary and in your demonstration, applied to our nuclear fleet, means the ability to produce electricity for a certain period of time. As you can see, this reliability only experienced the impact of stoppages due to specific causes, and voluntary in the cases of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. In fact, these plants were voluntarily stopped to check them from the bottom to the bottom. The plants were also arrested for voluntary but guilty causes, in the case of sabotage at Doel 4. As regards the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, you say that the most important text will be voted on next Tuesday in committee. I'm sorry, but you know that because we've talked about it many times and we'll talk about it again next Tuesday, the three conditions for the revival of Doel 1 and Doel 2 are already fulfilled. First, the power extension law was voted in parliament in June 2015. Secondly, it was necessary for Electrabel to have fuel in time; this is the case since you saw that the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants had left. Third, there was a need for AFCN's technical and safety approval in relation to these units; this has been done since September 2015. Mr Bens will talk about follow-up, since I am in no way competent in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u41	Mr President, I would like to continue. On the subject of nuclear civil liability, as you know, we are talking about implementing international instruments in our legislation. The Paris Convention of 1960 and the Additional Protocol of 2004 amending it are enshrined in our law, on the one hand, by the 1985 Act and, on the other hand, by a law of 29 June 2014. They are based on a principle of limited liability. I know that there are debates on these issues, and each time these texts have been debated in Parliament, but the nos of limited increases in liability for which operators must be assured have been increased by these international instruments and by Belgian law up to 1.2 billion in respect of operators. There are 150 million more that are assumed in a pool by the signatory countries of this Convention. The percentage is different for each country. With the new law, it will be an additional 300 million. All of this may be problematic. We know the damage caused by nuclear accidents. But I will soon come with a text, and we will have an opportunity to discuss it in committee in detail. I wouldn't want to dwell on that right now. With regard to the impact of these recent incidents on electricity generation, I asked EDF-Luminus and Electrabel in writing, asking them to make me the precise relationship of the impacts on their electricity production portfolio. Mrs Jadin, we will still have the opportunity to discuss at length the energy pact, that is to say, everything that will allow us to operationalize the necessary electricity resources and production to replace nuclear power in 2025. I think I answered all the questions. If that is not the case, I will answer one or the other question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u42	Mr Wollants, you're wondering if Target 1 and 2 are unsafe. I hope that's a rhetorical question. If I thought they were unsafe, they'd be shut down. That is a very clear answer. As far as cooperation with the Netherlands is concerned, it is indeed the intention that the Dutch inspectors will walk with us and we will walk with them. We have long asked the Netherlands to do so. In the Netherlands, a year ago, the ANVS, the Dutch Nuclear Safety Authority and Radiation Protection, was established very strongly according to the Belgian model. In the past, the power was very fragmented across different administrations, making it more difficult. With the ANVS we are now more on the same page. We started doing this last year. We have been doing this with France for many years. I would like to add that this is not just about nuclear power plants, but about all the activities of nuclear control, as in the medical world. In the radiography departments in the hospitals people from the other countries walk along, the responsibility rests with the country itself. The Dutch do not inspect us, but it is more of an exchange of experiences and a mutual improvement. Indeed, the OSART missions, which are carried out periodically, and the SALTO missions at the same level, are mainly intended to draw lessons from them and find points of improvement in the way they work in the various organisations. What is the state of play with regard to stress tests? The action plans are regularly reported by the various operators, both nuclear power stations and others. It's being followed. These cases are on schedule. Here and there there are some projects, which are delayed, but it is going very well. Mr Thiébaut, you say that the number of incidents is increasing. I'm saying he's pretty variable. Indeed, depending on the years, they either decrease or increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u43	Mr Bens, when a plant is shut down for a year, fatally there is no more incident!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u44	Not necessarily! It is not because a power plant is stationary and no longer produces, that the systems are all shut down. A host of auxiliary systems continue to operate, and incidents can also occur as unavailability. What is the maintenance policy? I'm not gonna give you an industrial maintenance course. It is obvious that Electrabel has an entire programme of reliability of its equipment, of its installations. In this regard, several maintenance strategies can be applied to an industrial facility. It's good for a power plant as for any factory. Thus, preventive maintenance can also be performed in different ways: periodically, every six months or every year, replacements can be carried out on the basis of the number of hours of operation. Some maintenances are conditional based. The oil is measured, for example, by examining its condition and deciding on its placement. Vibration is measured on rotating equipment. There is also the politics run to fail. This exists in industrial maintenance. What the operator must do is examine the cost of some maintenance, the impact of some failure. We're not gonna replace all the lamps in this room every six months. Maybe we'll wait until a light bulb is defective before replacing it. But there are installations, where lighting is replaced every year. Maintenance policies are decided on the basis of the costs and implications of a failure. And again, it is not the whole plant that is concerned. Quite elaborate software programs identify what kind of maintenance will apply to such equipment. I would not be surprised if, at a nuclear power plant, certain equipment were replaced or modified only when it proved to be defective. In any case, these are not important either for nuclear safety or for the reliability of production. Then, yes, additional measures against terrorism have been taken, but I am not going to list them here, because the walls have ears. Mrs Dierick, you mentioned Electrabel's statement that the number of incidents has fallen. I will not confirm that, because that is variable: one year it is a little more, the other a little less. As far as a top ten of the most secure nuclear centres in the world are concerned, I cannot comment. I can't tell which are the safest power stations. What I do see is that, when we look at the availability tables for Belgian power stations, Objectives 1 and 2 score best. These are apparently the most reliable Belgian power stations, which is a strange conclusion. There are comparisons of availability and safety equipment, but they are not public and I do not know them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u45	I don't quite understand. You have figures on the availability of nuclear power stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u46	There are safety equipment, e.g. emergency supply water pumps to inject water in an emergency. They keep statistics: when they are tested, they are available. Then I'm talking about numbers after the decimal point, with percentages of ninety-nine decimal points so much. The operators compare these figures internally. If one power station reaches 99,98 and another at 99,95 then one looks at the difference and one sees if one can improve something.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u47	Can we not have it or do you not have it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u48	Those figures shall not be published. Only the operator himself has it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u49	So there are statistics on the availability of safety devices in the power stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u50	We have those from our power stations, but we don't have those from abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u51	I was worried. I was gonna stick up for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u52	There is no problem for our own power stations, but we have to compare them on a large basis, with abroad, and these figures are not public. In response to the questions about the link with the safety culture and the state of play in this regard in Tihange, I note that Goed also responded to the programmes that were developed after our intervention in August 2015. Objective has also made an improvement programme in this area. In Tihange, it is the "Plan of action rigueur et responsabilité" ("Plan of action rigueur"). That action plan has been implemented in two steps. The immediate actions were carried out within the month: the further training of a number of persons and the greater respect of procedures. The second step is a longer-term step. The preparation of the report on this subject is foreseen in the course of January 2016. I am therefore unable to comment on this at the moment, but I suspect that I will come back to the committee to tell you a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u53	There's a good chance we'll see each other again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u54	In general, there are no international agreements on communication. However, there are such agreements in the area of emergency planning. There are clear agreements in this respect, which go through the crisis centre and the crisis centres of the other countries. However, in the area of incidents, such as those we are talking about, there are no real concrete agreements. We do have separate bilateral agreements with France and the Netherlands, mainly to keep each other informed. There is also a huge cultural difference. In Belgium, an operator clearly has a culture of open communication. He'll tell you immediately what's going on. The German operators call it the geräuschloser Betrieb. They absolutely don't want to communicate. So that's hard there. There are cultural differences behind it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u55	What exactly is that called?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u56	Silent operation. I don't have to draw a picture of the Japanese attitude towards communication either. Mrs Temmerman, I believe that most of the questions have already been answered by the ministers. There was still a question as to why EUR 700 million should be invested if it is already safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u57	That wasn't the question. You say that EUR 700 million must be invested, but you are already opening up the power stations. So you're saying that this investment should only take place within three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u58	The investments still to be made are investments for improvement. The safety level is good, it's where it used to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u59	[[But in three years, it'll be...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u60	... be even better. That's it. The same applies to stress tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u61	You said that differently in the previous cases. You said at that time that you would not let them open until those investments had happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u62	There are two types of investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u63	Now you say that investments should only be made within three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u64	There are two types of investment. There are investments to ensure that all devices are available to do it safely. Then there is a need for investment to improve. I think it is for the sum of these two that we mention the EUR 700 million. Ms Jadin mentioned a very interesting subject: the divergence between European security rules. It's a point of discussion. Mr Calvo has made a comment about the European super-regulatory body. Since 2000, the European authorities have come together to harmonise. Before that, there was nothing. There was even no rule in the legislation. All security requirements were identified in individual facility authorizations. All this was quite different. And it was at the time when the Eastern countries wanted to join the European Union that the European Union put the condition of compliance with European safety standards. The candidate countries then enquired about these standards. And it had to be noted that there was no written standard. For example, in 2003-2004 several groups were formed and the West-European Nuclear Regulators Association (WENRA) did this work of harmonization. These standards were then incorporated into legislation. This is done on two levels. The WENRA working groups are working together on the regulators of the different European countries who are working together to define what is called safety reference levels. Then each country has to transpose this into its national legislation. This was done on a voluntary basis within the WENRA framework. Then this was taken up by the European Nuclear Safety Directive, which is therefore binding. There are therefore initiatives to move in this direction. I am not in favour of a European super regulator. I'm not okay with that. I prefer the system of several independent regulators who keep an eye on each other. I think they'll have a much stronger thing. I call that genetic diversity. If, as in France and America, one has a regulator who looks at everything, and if it makes a mistake, there is a big problem. If there are 28 regulators, who regularly review and comment on each other, the others, if someone makes a mistake, will quickly pull them back to level. I see advantages in a system of diversity, provided the necessary contacts, reviews and harmonisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u66	You had a question about the manual stop of Target 3. The plant was indeed stopped before there was any indication in the instrumentation. So before the red light started to light, it had already been seen that there was something loose, that there was a water leak, that could not be repaired, while the central turned. So it was decided to stop the power station manually, rather than to wait for so much water to be lost, that the stop would happen automatically. So they've anticipated the shutdown. Then I come to the new conditions in the operating permit. That goes for Tihange 1, Objective 1 and Objective 2, not for Objective 3 and Tihange 2. They are in the permits and are now being tested by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u67	By whom, exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u68	By the NGO Greenpeace Belgium, you may not be unknown. As far as the amount of investment is concerned, I will not vote. As far as we are concerned, we are concerned only with safety facilities. Electrical reliability does not fall within the jurisdiction of the AFCN. It is therefore not up to us to make comparisons on this subject. During my various interventions to the members of the Agency, but also to the operators, I stressed very much that the focus on day-to-day business should not be lost. Indeed, this requires attention and follow-up. Major projects, whether they are new investments, dismantlings or modifications, which are much more attractive, must not prevent us from focusing our attention on normal operations. With regard to the work of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the status of the action plan has been on our website since the end of December. The international evaluation of Tihange's safety culture program was conducted by the World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) in December. I have not yet seen the conclusions, but I think they will present them to us in the course of January. As regards the publication of events outside or below the INES scale, so far the Agency's policy has been to publish only INES 1 or higher events. We realize that this policy may need to be changed. We have already put two messages on the site about events not listed on the INES scale. But the advantage of the 1 and above is that the limit is clear and clear; we know how to do it. We look at how we could do this for unclassified events and put more information on the site. This is being studied at the Agency. Mrs Marghem has already replied at length on the cause of the 20% Belgian in Mr Nollet's table. I have a comment. When I see this picture, I can also make quite the opposite reasoning. If Belgium's figures are so high, it is because in Belgium, when a problem is detected, the power station is stopped. There was a decision to let the plants run or not, before the file was ready, due to hydrogen defects. I am sure that some countries do not want to examine their tanks for fear of finding something, while they do not want to put a power plant on hold. That's part of it. This is also about a culture, where installations are shut down when an error is found. Then there's bad grades. However, there are countries among them with such a low unplanned loss factor that I wonder if they do not lack a culture of safety. So we have to be very careful. This is in extreme cases, but we must be very careful when looking at the raw figures. There is also a need to integrate the design of power plants. Some are, by their nature, more reliable and benefit from a better system of withdrawal. Their availability will therefore be higher, with greater investment. All these elements must be taken into account when analyzing such a table. It is very dangerous to draw hasty conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u70	Mr Nollet, for us, an employee's contract of employment is not that important. What matters to us is his training and qualifications. Is he able to work properly and in good conditions and does he have a good safety culture? Whether it is Electrobel or one of its subcontractors, we ensure that they have this basic training and technical skills in terms of safety culture and radiation protection. The hirings decided by Electrabel will mainly concern Doel 1 and 2. As we were considering their closure, this group developed a staff plan – I don't know if we can talk about a social plan. If these plants stopped, the company no longer needed these workers. The aim was to transfer them mainly to Doel 3 and 4 in order to replace retired staff members. As a result, the workforce was declining at Doel 1 and 2. Now, as these two units are going to be restarted, they will have to re-employ both for normal operation and for design office projects. I have already explained the policy on pro-active maintenance. I think I have finished with the answers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u71	Who else is asking for the floor? Everyone, I see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u72	First of all, thank you for the answers given. The reason I'm asking you about unreliableness and insecurity is because people are not embarrassed to just explain it. Without providing any evidence, they say that our nuclear power stations are unsafe and unreliable. Then a statement from the nuclear regulator, from someone who's been in the business for years, is worth just a little bit more than that from someone who's just left the room. In this respect, it is important to put all this into perspective. A second aspect is the following. We have just discussed the number of plants of the same age as Objective 1. Mrs. Temmerman finds out that Minister Jambon has found one. I found 80 others. 18% of the world's power stations are of the same age as or older than Objective 1. Is 18 % much or little? That depends on the context, there are examples of that. We shall then come to Mr Nollet's fine list, which unfortunately has just not been printed enough. I'll talk about how that happened in a minute. This is about the last three years and those figures are correct. If we look at the state of play for the entire park, in terms of its lifespan, we will of course find other figures. We know that this is 6.1 % on average.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u73	What worries me is that this is changing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u74	I will answer you; that is not a problem. If we make that comparison, we are indeed going to be looking at a different figure, i.e. an average of 6.1 %. In doing so, we are doing better than the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. In this respect, you must have an honest discussion. What is much more important is that Mr Nollet has failed to tell us what that figure is. An atmosphere is created as if it were the number of incidents and unplanned cessations. That's not right. What's going on? You are more focused on the paper, but if you click Unplanned Capacity Loss Factor, you can read the definition. What's it about? It's about the energy that wasn't produced compared to the reference energy that was produced. In other words, the longer a power station stops, the bigger the share. This means that if one gets a plant 52 times a year in SCRAM, one can get better figures than this country, without any problem. So this has little to do with reliability, but it has to do with the fact that we are doing a thorough job. What's unscheduled? Unscheduled according to the definition to which you refer, it has not been announced four weeks in advance. That's not a shut-down that happens when that power plant stops automatically. Not at all. What happened to Target 3 and Tihange 2? It has been decided to advance maintenance for one nuclear power plant and to stop the other immediately. That just means that the ball was played briefly. If you would have preferred to have waited four weeks, this would not have been on this list and there would have been no problem. But I think that's a wrong way of working. I am much happier with the fact that there is a thorough investigation. I will precalculate the figure for 2015 for Objective 3 and Tihange 2. That will be somewhere close to 97.2 % because they have taken the time to examine it thoroughly. This has nothing to do with the number of incidents in those plants or their prevention. It only has to do with the fact that that power plant stopped. On the basis of these lists, if you say that something is thoroughly wrong and that those plants have been worn out, that is not correct. So let us have a fair discussion with correct figures and then another story will emerge. Perhaps in the meantime you have found the definition and you can speak with me in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u75	Thank you for your answers. However, I did not have a response regarding the status of the Doel 4 investigation. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u76	Mr Bens, is there a more precise explanation of the fact that there are so many fires in transformer-type electrical elements, such as the explosion in a transformer. Is there any particular cause for concern about this part of the plants, because it has often been there that fires have developed? You didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u77	The answer is no. There is no explanation for that. It's a phenomenon that we could look at in more detail, it's clear. But since this has not yet been done, there is no answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u78	Aren't transformers too old?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u79	For transformers, that's something else. There's a transformer replacement program.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u80	Systematic?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u81	Yes, systematic. For 1000 MW units, this has been done. For Doel 1 and Doel 2, transformers are in order. It is known that, after a certain period of time, transformers must be replaced. But as far as the fires in the electrical panels are concerned, I have no explanation. It happens. It's happened in the past, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u82	Thank you for the answers, but they are not of that nature to really reassure us and the people. With regard to safety, it was said less than a year ago that a number of works had to be carried out before Objectives 1 and 2 could be opened. Now you say that a bit of work has been done, but that we actually have three years to carry it out. This does not reassure the people, partly in view of the incidents that have occurred and which have occurred. Mr Bens, the demands you made at the time, in connection with the stress tests and the Fukushima incident, have been weakened before the opening of Objectives 1 and 2. A number of elements I can mention are now out of the ordinary for Objectives 1 and 2. The way in which they are dealt with raises questions. Mrs Marghem, your full explanation of the operational security of our nuclear power plants shows that you must have an incredibly blind faith in nuclear power. Those technical things don't matter. Our nuclear power plants have failed in the last two years. You can't deny that, can you? You say that the investigation should be regarded as a planned closure. That's unbelievable, isn't it? They thought there was a problem in the two plants. It has been shut down and it has rightly been said that we would take the time for a thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u83	As far as the cracks are concerned, we have taken the risk and shut down the power stations. Afterwards it turned out they wouldn't have caused a problem. It's not because something's quieted that there's a problem. The power stations have been shut down for an investigation. At the end of the investigation, it was found that there was actually no problem. Isn't that a form of hyperprotectiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u84	That is indeed a form of hyperprecautionaryism. I fully agree with that, Minister, but it shows that this type of energy production is a major danger, otherwise it would not have been so thoroughly investigated. After all, they feared that something might be wrong. Once again, you have rightly shut down the power plant, but it proves that this form of energy can no longer be reliable today, because there is... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u85	No, it's not about making sure it's safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u87	Mr President, it is a matter of being very careful in this type of energy. That's what this is about. It is good to keep the power station quiet, but it is not good to keep saying that this form of energy is safe, because there will be such incidents. Then it will be said again that the power stations must be shut down to investigate this or that. That's what it's about. Of course, that is what we have to do, but it is about business security. You claim that nuclear power is safe. The last two years have shown very clearly that this is not the case, because we have had to shut down power stations from time to time. The fact that you keep saying that nuclear energy is safe means that you are denying something. Again, I did not receive an answer on my comment that Objectives 1 and 2 should not be opened. There's enough energy, so they shouldn't open. You didn't go into that either. You also say that the emergency plan is being changed systematically, Minister. The population is very ignorant about that. It is very good that you contact Germany and the Netherlands now, but it might also be useful to further inform the population living around Doel and Tihange. After all, it has no information on the changes to the emergency plans. In addition, Mr Peter Mertens of the Crisis Centre said that the plans are currently being adapted, but that it is not obvious for such a large densely populated area to take action. This is, of course, not of that nature to ensure the public that there is no problem and that an emergency plan is ready when an incident occurs. However, it is said that it is not obvious to take action for such a densely populated area. You say you'll be coming up with those contingency plans soon. I am very curious to know how you will solve this problem for this densely populated area, because it seems that this is not so obvious. I also agree with Mr Thiébaut. We did not receive an answer on the situation of the Objective 4 incident. Either we didn't hear that. Mr Bens, can we still get the list of all nuclear and non-nuclear incidents? That was requested at the last committee meeting, and we are asking for it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u88	I know people have been working on it with us, but I don't know if this is finished and forwarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u89	But when she's done, will we get them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u90	I think this was agreed at the previous committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u91	We asked that last time in August. We're January now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u92	We have indeed talked about this, but in the end the committee said to list those INES 1 to INES 7 incidents, because otherwise we can actually list almost everything, the broken sound of a toilet is also an INES 0 incident. We have indeed made a list. That list was delivered by the FANC to the members of the committee and since then, I do not think anyone has responded to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u93	Mr Wollants, it is a pity that you are making such a caricature. We now have more nuanced opposition than you did last time, we do not come here every week about a French-speaking tax government. It is about nuance in the opposition, I would like to play Mr Jambon's videos as group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u94	Mr. Chairman, we have received a series of figures that relate to 2014, 2013 and 2012. The AFCN considered that we should not pass on the figures before because the statistical basis was different. This is doubtful because it does not allow us to compare the evolution of the data. The application therefore remains pending for previous years. Mr Bens, I would like to stress that, at the meeting on 2 December, we listed a series of requests. These were documents or questions that you could not answer at the meeting. So it's been more than a month. You were very busy because there were a lot of incidents. Mr President, I would like a deadline for Mr Bens to respond to these requests on 2 December. We sent a letter and we did not receive an acknowledgement of receipt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u95	That answer was indeed promised by early January. It's early January now, so it shouldn't take too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u96	Mr President, it is being worked on, and that is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u97	That's fine. Minister, you have just promised your roadmap to Mrs Dierick. I assume that's what you're gonna deliver to the committee secretariat. [[Assent]] Who else is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few more points. Frankly, the figures put on the table today by Mr Nollet are, in my view, relevant. It is, of course, not the only relevant statistics in nuclear science and energy policy. Mr Wollants, Mrs Marghem, Mr Bens, I do regret that an incredible amount of effort is being made to ignore a reality which exists in black and white and which we experience in this sub-committee, just by the frequency of the meetings. That's why I'm taking up my basic position. Is there a reason to panic? No. Are our power plants going to explode? Of course not. Should we send a message of panic to our citizens? Of course not. I even gave that message with great pleasure in the foreign media. There's no need to panic. Even though I fully understand the concerns, questions and views, there is no need to panic. However, Mr Wollants, the statistics do matter. Power stations are being shut down because of cracks. That's relevant to consider. A sabotage act that we didn't expect, but which has an impact on security of supply, is relevant. The fact that there are multiple incidents, that the incidents accumulate, is relevant. Does that take all that together and say everything about the state of those power stations? No. But please do not try to deny that truth, because that does not facilitate the debate. Secondly, Mr Wollants, your question about Objective 1 and Objective 2 to Mr Bens was indeed a rhetorical question. I am not surprised that Mr Bens regards Objective 1 and Objective 2 as safe. I looked it up again. In January 2005, Mr Bens, still in his capacity as director of the nuclear power plant, wrote in the magazine "Doel Info," the magazine for the employees of Doel, that the lifetime of the nuclear power plant would actually have to be extended by 30 years. The fact that Mr Bens states that Objective 1 and Objective 2 are safe does not surprise me, to be honest. I heard him explain something else today. You also asked the question, but you did not receive the answer you expected. Mr Bens did not reply that Objective 1 and Objective 2 were among the most secure plants in the world. I heard Mr Bens explicitly deny that. Thirdly, Mr Jambon, you have indicated that you no longer want to talk about matters which have already been discussed in connection with the extension of the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2. You no longer want to talk about SALTO and the environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u99	That debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u100	The debate on this has indeed taken place, but it is your crushing responsibility that the debate is again attracting today. One of the reasons why there is so much indignation abroad and the reason why the Netherlands is concerned is that you said to the Netherlands, to the Council of State and to Parliament that there would be no public investigation and no environmental impact assessment. Today, the mayors involved must communicate through press agencies and through motions in their municipal councils. What, however, is the normal, calibrated procedure? That is that we can decide on the extension of life expectancy in a public investigation. You didn't want that. So your way of working is at the root of this chaos, of this confusion and of the concerns of our neighbors. We may differ as to whether the life span of Objectives 1 and 2 should be extended. We also disagree on this. Your party put forward a proposal during the previous legislature to keep these plants open for 60 to 70 years. You also want a new nuclear power plant. We are therefore fundamentally opposed to nuclear energy. That's obvious. However, we should not have to discuss the way in which this is handled, whether the opinion of the Council of State should be followed and whether such an important decision should be the subject of a public inquiry. If you had followed the Council of State, you would have seen much less Dutch protest today. If you had informed the neighbouring countries in an appropriate manner, proactively and not in response to a crisis, there would have been much less concerns today. So you are at the root of these concerns. You could have avoided them or at least reduced them. Especially in the case of sensitive problems such as nuclear problems, this is the norm. Fourthly, Mr Bens, I find the statements you make about your fellow Members abroad striking. If you say that one of the explanation factors for the statistics on unavailability is that in other countries people are nonchalant about nuclear safety, that worries me. If the head of the Belgian nuclear control body comes here in Parliament to say that in other countries, including our neighbouring countries, there is more unchalantness about nuclear safety, I am concerned. You said it that way. That's one of the explanations for those other statistics for you. If Jan Bens, the number one nuclear control agency in Belgium, says here about the Germans that they are withholding things, that they have no openness, that their nuclear culture is different from ours, then I am concerned about that. I think you should ask your custody minister to take initiatives there. Those are not small statements, Mr Bens, which are in fact accusations or, in any case, punitive statements you make about the functioning of control bodies in our neighbouring countries. I find that remarkable. I think we should take that into account. I would like to invite Mr Jambon to say something about that. What are the consequences of Mr Bens' statement? What are you gonna do with that? I believe that this is something that should affect us and encourage us to take action. After all, Mr Bens says here that there are problems and that the safety culture in other control bodies is inadequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u101	Mr Calvo, you put words in my mouth that I did not say. The decision on Germany was not about the safety authorities, it was a clear policy of the operators in Germany, Geräuschloser Betrieb. I did not comment on Germany. As far as the countries I am concerned about are concerned, there is indeed some friction with our American colleagues mainly because they do not impose inspections on the hydrogen inclusions. So there's friction. People from the NRC know that we are opposed to this. When I see them, I'm gonna have that conversation, but I haven't been able to convince them to do those checks anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u102	If you say that in the minds of German operators there is a problem of openness and transparency, I think that is relevant. Whether it's a Belgian, French or German operator in this matter, you're fous. Every operator of a nuclear power plant must be able to show the necessary openness. If the FANC number 1 says that there is a problem in Germany in this area, I think we should get to work on that. Then Mr Jambon has to say something about this: what are we going to do about the statement that was made? In addition, you say that it is only about the United States. With regard to Mr Nollet's figures, you said that the explanation you see is that culture is not good in other countries. There are also other countries on it than the United States. Either you say something like that and it applies to the whole table and to several control agencies, or not. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u103	I would particularly like to point out that these figures should not be given as the absolute truth. You really need to find out what's behind it. That applies to all statistics, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u104	The power stations have been shut down, and you're not going to deny that. There's been no production. There's no operational security, period. All that explanation!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u105	In any case, security abroad and the functioning of foreign operators and control agencies are also of interest to us. We're involved in this. If there are problems there, Mr Bens, I invite you to take the necessary steps together with Mr Jambon. Final point, pretty specific. There is once again a stir, even after the rebooting of the crack reactors. You are right to say that the stricter permit conditions for Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1 were poured into a Royal Decree. That was the scoop, good thing you clarified that. Especially when one sees that the safety of the power stations raises questions, I would like to ask that for Objectives 3 and Tihange 2 the enhanced safety conditions also be translated into a KB as you have done for Objective 1 and Objective 2. That could be above the beliefs of nuclear energy. If you're prepared, I'd be happy to hear it today. That would then be a step forward and this session would have yielded something on this point. Finally, Mrs Marghem, you have already taken part in your intervention next week. There is something that I am taking quite seriously, in particular that you say that the most important steps have been taken to extend the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. I am sorry, but that is not the case. The extension of the lifetime has not yet received the full approval of this Parliament. I do not know what your concept of democracy is, but I still consider the position of a parliament relevant. I still think that next week's discussion, when Parliament will have to give its opinion, will be an important discussion for every representative of the people, for the contract until 2025 and for the legal anchoring of this extension of life. Mrs Marghem, I can also promise you that we will not finish this one afternoon. A lifetime extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2 in this context, not of panic but of concern, a lifetime extension of which was indicated in black and white by Elijah and the CREG as not necessary, a lifetime extension which the Council of State says is illegal state aid to the French energy giant, which we will fight with all our heart. That is, of course, an ideological issue. As a member of Ecolo-Groen, I hate nuclear waste incredibly. I find it unethical and immoral to pass that on to future generations. Next week's debate, Mr Wollants, Mrs Jadin, Mrs Dierick, Mr Wilrycx, does not really have to be an ideological issue, because there is no good reason to extend Objective 1 and Objective 2 for 10 years. That little step, that first step of the core trip, that mini-step we can make perfectly. I hope, however, that the events of the past few days, without wishing to overrule them by placing them in the right context, will enable the majority in this House to move towards better. After all, it must stop our country from appearing abroad as a failed state in this area too. There is incredibly much entrepreneurship, there are incredibly many opportunities to light the lamp in this country. Mr Jambon and Mrs Marghem, I am tired of seeing Belgium more than ever as a failed state in terms of energy. We can do much better and our citizens and businesses deserve much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u106	Mr Bens, thank you for your answers and for supporting the monitoring procedures in our country. These appear to be very open, transparent and serious. It's pretty reassuring about nuclear security on our territory. I am surprised by the lack of European harmonisation in terms of safety assessment procedures for nuclear power production. I hear it's being developed, but it's amazing. It is also surprising that some countries, which have given us a lot of moral lessons in recent times with regard to nuclear energy, do not have the necessary openness in these kinds of debates. These countries do not consider it appropriate to communicate in a transparent manner about their security controls processes. I wanted to make it clear. Mr Minister, you spoke of a meeting with the mayors of the neighbouring communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u108	I think it would be interesting to contact the mayors in Germany. I am sure that, given the context, this could provide clarification. I am from the region and these meetings are really necessary. Communication must be optimized to prevent a form of psychosis from taking over a rational and serious discourse, as we have had it today. I will follow the matter with great attention. My availability to coordinate this type of meeting will be full and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u109	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, Mr Bens, I would like to make four remarks. First of all, Mr Bens, you said that there was no question for you of pretending that our plants are the safest, which I take note of. In doing so, in the light of the situation, I am concerned. Indeed, in my view, safety must be maximum and the means must not be ignored. You mentioned the question of the method of maintenance of certain equipment. It must be noted that this is a problem. Does not the safety operator you are feel that the procedures should be put back on the job? In these enclosures, one cannot afford to take any risk. Shouldn't zero tolerance be applied in this respect? Secondly, there was a discussion of safety culture and staff training. I wonder whether, at the operator level, sufficient work was done on maintenance training, taking into account the fact that a year ago it was normal to work on decommissioning training. Is there not a lack of maintenance training? As you know, operations are expected to take several years. Has not the means of one type of training been diverted to another type of training with the consequences we are currently experiencing? Thirdly, I really attach great importance to the day-to-day focus you mentioned. Would it not be useful to take stock of this, to see how this happens so that preventive attention can be given to the structures or systems installed in the plants. Fourthly, Mr. Bens, I asked you earlier about the IAEA publication on INES 0. You said that an Agency procedure is intended to put this in place. It is important for transparency in terms of communication for the citizen, to reassure. Thank you for agreeing to my suggestion. That's what I'm asking Mr. Bens. Mr. Minister of the Interior, we've been a little teasing about the notion of fire, but I imagine that when a nuclear power plant announces a fire, all available forces are mobilized, they don't go there with a sandbox and a shovel. We know it's important. Finally, to repeat the comparison with France, there are gendarmerie platoons explicitly dedicated to the monitoring of power stations. Let us remember that Doel 4's sabotage has not yet been clarified. That is a problem. We would like to ensure this security, in addition to safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u110	Mr President, first of all, I note Mr Jan Jambon's lack of response to the Dutch power plant in Borssele, which I take as a form of confession. This indicates that in Belgium and the Netherlands there is a link between the age of a plant and the problems that arise. It is perhaps a constant of this government not to see the link between age and problems, including in the pension file. With regard to Mrs Marghem's answer, which speaks to us about the perception of things and makes semantic analyses, I think that if we were in the Committee on Psychology and Semantics, these explanations would be interesting. But we're supposed to be looking at nuclear security issues instead. But this semantic analysis can be interesting, since it tells us that reliability has two meanings: either nuclear safety or availability. Of course, but why should both be put down? If I make a comparison and I mention the reliability of a minister, a minister who is not reliable, does that mean a minister who speaks nonsense or a minister who speaks lies? Often there is a connection between the two. In relation to this link between nuclear safety and the availability of power plants, a cracked plant is removed from Mrs Marghem's statistics. According to his reasoning, if we withdraw some of the judgments from IAEA statistics, they will improve. Mr. de La Palice would have said the same! Should these judgments be withdrawn? Aren't they problematic? When a power plant is shut down in the event of a crack, is there not a nuclear safety problem? When a plant is shut down in the event of sabotage, is there not a problem with the reliability of these plants? It's a question we can ask ourselves. Even if we agree to remove these judgments from the statistics, Mrs Marghem tells us that we then reach an average of 86%, i.e. 14% unavailability. This means that, in the rankings of international agencies, we remain in last or penultimate position. So our power plants are a fundamental problem. Belgium was also penultimate in 2012 and 2013, before Doel 3 and Tihange 2. Then Mr. Bens told us in his reply all the maintenance procedures. However, his very interesting explanations do not allow us to know whether any procedural changes have taken place at Doel 1 and 2 and whether maintenance has been sufficient. As far as subcontracting is concerned, Mr Bens tells us that it is not the employment contract that prevails, but the skills and training of workers. However, there is a link between these two aspects. There is a relationship between the knowledge of the field and the competence of a subcontractor and a domestic worker. Moreover, it is no coincidence that accidents in factories often involve subcontracting workers. This system is cheaper and allows the producer to make savings and more profit. Mr Bens, I think this is a problem that you should look at more. Should subcontractors be admitted to a sector as risky as nuclear? If subcontracting is accepted, it is then necessary to carefully examine the working conditions, the knowledge of the field and others. With regard to your answer regarding the hirings planned by Electrabel at Doel 1 and Doel 2, you explain the context and I conclude that there are currently too few staff at Doel 1 and Doel 2 in relation to a production process. Had these reactors been shut down, there would not have been a shortage of personnel, but as the reactors operate, there are too few personnel. That is the conclusion I draw from the explanations you give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rather than worrying me, the document sent to us by our colleague, Mr Nollet, reassures me. It is indeed possible to say that we are doing, in a way, over-security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u112	There, we should do less!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u113	Are our security procedures equal to those of other countries? Knowledge would allow us to compare apples with apples rather than apples with pears. If we do over-security, personally, it reassures me and I don't make it a tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u114	I won't be as long as I've been. But earlier, it was the fault of the media and journalists, and now, if we listen to Mr Bens, it is the fault of the neighbouring countries, who are not sufficiently observant and are too lax. It's always the fault of others. This is never the problem of power plants in Belgium, nor of Electrabel. There's always an external explanation. We will soon believe that the cracks are the result of a Santa Claus intervention that came to create them. We have to stay serious. There's a problem. I also qualified it: it is a reliability problem. I did so precisely not to use the terms, and I made it clear earlier, of nuclear safety and security, so as not to enter, as my colleague Calvo explained earlier, into a panic dimension. In order to make the figures clear, I have distributed a table whose title I translate: unanticipated loss of capacity. It is of course on the unforeseeable notion that I insist. This is the whole difference with the planned cut-off or cut-off. It is because Belgium has the record, whether we like it or not, that I wanted to highlight this picture for what it is: not a safety problem, but a problem of unexpected loss of capacity, due to the difficulties encountered. These are multiform, of course! This can be sabotage. Fortunately, sabotage is unexpected! So imagine that a planned sabotage took place despite everything! But what is the Minister of the Interior doing? In Belgium, for various reasons, we hold the world record for power plants which pose problems in terms of unpredictability in terms of production capacity. You can turn it in every direction, the numbers speak for themselves. What is great is that you even manage to question the tables of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Maybe that explains why you refuse to let her inspect your power plants. Mr Jambon, you consider the debate to be closed on this side, but it is a little easy! I recall that in Tihange, these inspections took place before the extension. And the same goes for the works. Mr Bens, you are not in a position to do so because you have always argued for all the work to take place before. In Tihange, they needed more than two and a half years to complete the work. Here, you give them three or four months and you say we'll do the rest after. There will be more problems! We'll have to meet again here! All the more so since the concentration of the labour force is on the nuclear side, fortunately, but this relieves the pressure on the other side. You had to intervene in Tihange a few months ago with a pro justitia saying that there was a problem because the security culture was running out. These figures are a little bit of an observation of all this, although I agree with you that this is not the only explanation. The fact that it's because the others are too lax, is daring! I know that in football, the best defense is the attack. But here, the best tactic isn't necessarily the attack, it's how to play as a team. From this point of view, you play as a team attacking the neighbors by saying that they are more lax than we are and that this explains the reason for our problems. I look forward to an answer to that statement! I think that you have not measured what you have said here, like some of the comments that have been made in the press before. And in my opinion, they will remain engraved, so that others will wonder what we are doing in Belgium. And then we are going to be surprised, Minister, that Belgium's image is deteriorating. But of course, if today, in the face of such figures, it is claimed that the problem is not with us and that the problem is that the others are too lax. We must not be surprised that these others refer us to the figure because our plants are not the most reliable, because the figures speak for themselves. On a more specific point that you discussed earlier, Mr Bens, in relation to the run to failure, with the example given of the magnifying glass, saying that we are not going to change them all if only one is defective. On this point, of course. My question is not a theoretical question, related to the lamps in this committee room, but concerns the last three incidents. Can we consider that a transformer is comparable to a lamp in a commission room? Can we consider a generator in a nuclear power plant to be a small lamp? Can we consider an alternator in a nuclear power plant to be a small lamp? I don't think so. The question is, therefore, whether, for such parts in nuclear power plants, sufficient maintenance is required. Or does the principle of run to fail apply to these pieces as well? If so, it's challenging, because it's not lights in the Doel or Tihange nuclear power plant that jumped! It's the transformer, the alternator and the steam generator. I therefore await the documents which have been discussed, I also await the orders which Mr Calvo spoke about earlier, and I await the table - even if it is not you who can provide it to me, but rather the ministers - on the timing and the budgets devoted to the work. Remember, Mr. Jambon, we talked about it before the holidays. If anyone could pass it on to us. One of the three has it. The Agency seems to say she doesn't have it. Anyway, one of you three has this document. I would therefore like it to be forwarded to us, Mr President, through the work of the committee, so that we can be informed of all the work done and of the budget, as well as of the timetable for the completion of this work, just as we did for Tihange 1 at the time. It was a table on a page A4. I would therefore like to have the same table for Doel 1 and 2 in the sending you to the secretariat of the committee, for which I thank you already.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-06-54-commissie-ic300x.u115	I think we've handled everything. I would like to thank both Ministers for their presence and Mr Bens as well. I would ask the members of the committee to look at the work for the next few months together. However, the guests can leave.
