ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the grounds for discrimination at work against pregnant women are numerous and unfortunately still too frequent: refusal to hire, unfair dismissal, termination of the employment contract during the trial period, refusal to renew the employment contract, placing on the closet, removal of tasks and responsibilities in some cases. Recently, the press echoed a decision of the Mons and Charleroi Labour Courts condemning an employer for direct discrimination on the grounds of sex following the dismissal of a worker on the grounds of repeated absences due to incapacity for work. The periods of incapacity for work have been the result of complications related to her attempts to have a child. On the basis of the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination against women and men, the employer was ordered to pay the worker damages amounting to 6 months' pay. According to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which was involved in the above-mentioned case, more than three out of four women are reported to be victims of some form of discrimination in the workplace as a result of pregnancy or maternity. Another problem raised by the Institute would be a glaring lack of information, both among pregnant workers and among employers, on their rights and obligations and therefore a lack of awareness of a discriminatory situation. Madam Secretary of State, what is your opinion on the observations made by the Institute? Is it true that employers and workers are not sufficiently informed of their obligations, rights and remedies for discrimination during pregnancy or maternity? Do you have specific figures on the number of complaints of pregnancy-related or maternity-related discrimination that have been filed in recent years? Are these on the increase? What are the new measures that the federal government is planning to take to enable men and women to reconcile their private and professional lives as best as possible, but also to combat all forms of discrimination related to pregnancy or sex? These points were included in your policy note, but I felt it was important to take stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, in a recent survey of the Amazon Crossroads Gender Equality, 37% of Belgian women claim to be victims of discrimination in the labour market. One in three men also shares that conviction. Men therefore realise that they have a mark on the labour market. The University of Ghent also confirms that statement. For jobs with promotional opportunities, men are invited 50% more often than women, according to her practical research. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men also receives almost weekly complaints from women who are not employed or dismissed because they are pregnant. Are you aware of the continuing discrimination against women in the labour market? I'm assuming so. Although there may be little legal action to be taken, I ask you if you see any other possibility of eliminating this now obvious inequality, according to the University of Ghent, is proven inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, I also refer to the annual report of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. In this we see that most complaints received from his legal service are related to work. More than seven out of ten employment reports came from women. The most frequent cases relate to recruitment, 13%, working conditions, 26%, and the end of the employment relationship, 48%. The increase in the number of reports related to in vitro fertilisation is also striking. These are not findings to be proud of, at a time when we would think that equality between men and women is more or less an achievement. That is clearly not the case. I am also aware that not everything can be incorporated into laws and regulations, but I think it is necessary to look at and discuss these issues. My question is, therefore, what initiatives will you take, and by extension, the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u4	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you cordially for your questions. As you may know, I am well aware of this painful reality. In the area of equal opportunities, many differences in treatment between men and women in the workplace persist with regard to pregnancy and maternity. The decisions of the Labour Courts of Mons and Charleroi of 22 May 2015 offer a new example. The Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between men and women prohibits any form of discrimination on the basis of sex in various fields, including labour relations. The criteria for pregnancy, childbirth, maternity and gender change are similar. The study "Grossness at work" designed in 2010 by the Institute has in fact led to a lack of knowledge of the rights and duties relating to pregnancy. Through surveys, this report aimed to objectiveize employers' responses and the experiences of women workers at the time of their pregnancy announcement. No similar research had yet been carried out in Belgium. This has led, among other things, to a lack of knowledge and common understanding of discrimination against pregnant women and a lack of information on legislation or administrative management of labour relations in the event of pregnancy. The figures showed that this lack of information was found in both the worker and employers and colleagues. In this regard, I will give you a table containing the complaints and notifications of recent years concerning pregnancy and maternity in working life. As you will see, unfortunately, there is an increase in the number of complaints. Not only discrimination based on pregnancy, but also other forms of inequality in the workplace lead us to reflect. For example, there is the familiar problem of the glass ceiling. This metaphor shows the resistance that women experience in their professional and/or social careers: growing to the top, whether as a mother or not, is made difficult. In my opinion, the fact that this type of complaint and other gender-related complaints can now be transferred to the Institute is already a step in the right direction. But, of course, preventive action must also be taken from all social and policy points of view. That is why I am in the process of preparing a national action plan to combat discrimination against women at work. This will include combating the pay gap, the glass ceiling and under-representation of women in top positions, better distribution of care tasks, combating gender stereotyping and better reconciliation of work and family life, including maternity and maternity protection. That is why I would like to join forces with my fellow Member, the Minister of Work, the Minister of Health and Social Affairs, the Minister of Civil Service and my competent colleague in the Länder, responsible for Work, Education and Welfare. In order to achieve a coherent set of measures, I will soon set up a working group. The working group will be co-ordinated by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men and will be populated by the representatives and administrations of the aforementioned competent ministers. The ultimate objective is to develop an action plan on gender equality in employment relations. This should result in concrete actions to promote gender equality in the workplace and in employment relations, translated into coherent and clear legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I think it is undeniable that there is discrimination against women in the workplace. It is important to be able to talk about it and to ensure that it is no longer a taboo. It is essential, as you said, to work with your colleagues in the federated entities. It is also important to raise your colleagues' awareness of the federal government as this issue needs to be taken into account in all of your colleagues' competencies at the federal government level. Concertation is an important element. In your policy note, you referred to an evaluation of the 2007 Anti-Discrimination Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u7	Is she in class?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u8	Yeah, she's in class. I will answer that when we address another question today. The group is expected to start working in March. We are currently composing this group. We have asked experts if they want to participate and we are waiting for their answers. Normally, we will start in March with the evaluation. After six months, we will provide you with a first report. We should normally have waited at least a year, but I asked for a first report to be made after six months. Then we'll have a larger evaluation report in a year or a year and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u9	Thank you. It is indeed important to be able to evaluate and then move forward. It is good to be able to work in several parts as well. I will allow myself to return to the subject. If I understand correctly, there will be two working groups: a working group on anti-discrimination evaluation and another working group...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u10	It's completely different. The assessment of the 2007 Act is required by law, so it is mandatory. In March, after the panel's membership, the panel will begin its work and provide a first report in September/October. It's a group. And there is another group that will work on the national action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u11	We will therefore have the opportunity to come back to it and to deepen the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, it's nice to hear you're working on that. We have already talked about the taboo, a word I heard Mr Winckel use. I think it's really increasing support. In the study of Amazon's Crossroads Gender Equality, the men were also questioned and I find it striking that the men are also aware of this. I couldn't help noticing that. That broad support is good, so the time is really ripe to step up and go into higher gear. That's why I'm glad to hear you're doing that. The working group will prepare the national action plan, but I have not heard any timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u13	Mrs Jiroflée, that is true, and it is therefore a perfectly correct counter-question. All the preparatory work is currently under way, and we have only just begun to do so. It's all gonna take some time. Quite frankly, timing is hard for me to give you. This preparatory work also requires consultation, because it is a national plan, involving the regions. That won't be settled in a few months or a year. It'll take his time. This year we will consult everyone and collect everything. This concerns both the Communities and the Regions, as the subject areas are subject to different powers and the plan is widely understood. At present everyone is written and contacted and the different ideas are collected. There will then have to be many bilateral contacts. I know that if I give up a timing, I'll have questions by then because the timing has expired. I've been a representative myself, so I can understand those questions. I hope that we will be able to take clear steps forward this year. Whether the plan will be fully ready and can be published, I will keep that to a certain extent, as we are currently in the process of consulting. I therefore wish to be cautious in this respect. I have a co-worker who focuses entirely on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, I understand everything, but I'm also going to ask a follow-up question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u15	You can do that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u16	I'll take the liberty of asking you in the spring if you have a look at the timing. Thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u17	That's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. It's a file close to our heart. I am sure and I am sure that this is also the case with you. Discrimination against women in the labour market is, of course, a flag covering many loads. It is sometimes directly involved, but also very often with indirect consequences of choices and measures. I hear you mention a whole series of issues that you would like to address and deal with within the framework of the National Action Plan. The better distribution of care tasks often involves indirect matters, such as the fact that research shows that compulsory paternity leave is a good idea. In that case, a kind of arrangement is already created even if it only takes a few days to install itself in the relationship between the couple. There, too, it appears that men themselves are asking parties. They would like to be able to do more and take up that role more. I'm just going to give you that remark. You are also talking about the better combination of work and private. As you know, we continue to regret that the unmotivated time loan has been abolished. I know people make that credit a caricature sometimes. That is not right, because the figures are totally contradicting that. The caricature is that people would use that credit to travel the world. However, 80% of people taking up such time credits are women. In more than three quarters of the cases, part-time leave was taken. It's hard to make a world trip part-time. There is also the category for which motivated time credits are already provided, for example for children up to eight years old, although children over eight years of age may also need support. For example, during the exam periods, the participants want to be able to be at home when the children have study afternoons. We also note that measures have been taken to make the plan more difficult. I am therefore very interested in what will come out of the national action plan. Above all, I hope that I will be able to note that your male colleagues in particular will give you something in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u19	Question No 7733 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. Joined Questions Nos 8594, 8595, 8596, 8598, 8794, 8796 and 8795 by Mrs Fonck are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, during the discussion of the budget and the policy paper, I asked you about the timing of a second national action plan on child poverty. You gave me a very good list of the actions of the first child poverty plan, whether or not they are still in progress, for which I am grateful. That was about an update from 2014. Meanwhile, an administrative working group is working on a second update of the actions of the first plan. You say that those results were expected in January 2016. I haven't heard a word about the timing of the second plan, except that you held a kick-off meeting in November 2015. Madam Secretary of State, is the update on the state of play of the actions of the first plan ready? I also repeat my question back then: what is the timing of the formatting of the second plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u21	Unfortunately, we have not yet received all the updates of the federated entities to update the state of play of the first national anti-poverty plan. So that is ongoing, but we have not yet received all the information we need to take stock of the full state of affairs. The Senate is currently working on an information report on the necessary cooperation between the federal government and the Communities and Regions on the joint approach to combating child poverty. The Senate's information report has just been approved and will be presented on 24 February. This information report will provide an important guide to the preparation of the new National Child Poverty Reduction Plan entrusted to the Administrative Working Group within my administration. As regards your second question, a second meeting took place in January. The members of the Working Group on the Child Poverty Reduction Plan have drawn up a concrete roadmap. This provides for five steps. Once the Senate's information report has been published, we will first and foremost move to an analysis of the information report and to the discussion and identification of possible common actions identified on the basis of the information report and other relevant sources. A first draft action plan with an overview of the joint actions will then be drawn up. On the basis of the discussions within the government, the working group then prepares a second draft action plan. A broad stakeholder consultation will then take place through the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion. The Platform will be asked to further formulate recommendations on the format of the Child Poverty Plan. The members of the working group shall organise bilateral discussions with their policy-makers on the results of this open platform day. On the basis of these results, a third draft action plan will be drawn up in order to be able to land with this action plan, after approval by the respective Councils of Ministers. We estimate that this could be dealt with over the next six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. It all sounds very thorough but you will not blame me if I think that this is in the very long term and that it is all taking quite a long time, especially since there has been a first plan on child poverty. I kind of feel like that could have started faster. However, it is good that everyone is thoroughly dragged into the bathtub and questioned. I wish you good luck with it. Above all, I wish you every success in working with the regional governments. I will come back to that in a few months to ask you for an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u23	We could schedule and devote a meeting to these various topics in October. As we move closer to the policy note, it may even be better in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u24	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, during the discussion of the policy paper, we talked about the law on gender mainstreaming. You said at the time that all the ministers had committed themselves to taking their share of the work. In the last week, however, we saw your colleague, the Minister for Pensions, come up with a social correction on pensions, i.e. 1% increase in minimum pensions. Apart from the fact that we believe that this is far from solving all the problems, it is also extremely unjust. In fact, only for pensioners with a minimum pension, a career of 45 years and a minimum number of actual working days in that career, the pension is increased by 1%. Madam Secretary of State, 75% of women who retired in 2014 do not have a full career. That's three-quarters of the women who retired in 2014. Only 11% of the number of female pensioners will therefore benefit from the 1% increase. Personally, I think that's another jaw blow for women. In addition to long-term ill, job-seekers, victims of an accident at work and bridge-retired workers, women are once again the victims. Madam Secretary of State, how do you feel about that? Will you take measures to adapt and compensate for this discriminatory measure? What will be your attitude to the discussion in the government about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, it is true that women still have a shorter career on average than men. However, it was calculated that the activity rate of women between 55 and 65 years of age will increase from 38 % in 2013 to 53 % in 2060, although of course that is still a long time. In men, we expect only an increase of 53 % in 2013 to 59 % in 2060. In other words, the large gap between men and women in the labour market is gradually being eliminated, thanks to the fact that women will work more and will be encouraged to work longer. The debate on equal opportunities between men and women should not be conducted through the pension system. I believe that the correction should take place on the labour market itself, for example, as we will do in the child poverty plan, by developing childcare and facilitating the reconciliation of work and private life. With corrections in pension calculations, unfortunately, we are lagging behind in the facts and mothers do not always benefit. I therefore intend to draw up a fully-fledged action plan for work/family, as has already been mentioned, so that all the barriers facing women today can be tackled in a constructive, multidisciplinary and holistic way. In addition, there is the tax shift, which aims to create full-fledged careers for men and women, which will structurally address and eliminate the gender gap and the risk of poverty for women. Helping more people to work and making work more rewarding first and foremost benefits women, who are still underrepresented in the labour market. I'll give you a few more figures. The tax shift frees 15 million euros for an additional 1% increase in minimum pensions. I don't think it's possible that people who worked for 45 years would have to live in poverty afterwards. This increase is not disproportionately beneficial for a particular sex. Of all people with a minimum pension and a full career, women account for 40% and men account for 60%. That was 168 230 on 1 September 2015. In the workers' system, 69 percent are women and 31 percent men. The figures can be specified. This increase therefore benefits both women and men. On the other hand, there is an increase of 2% in the lowest pensions through the 100 % expenditure of the welfare envelope. This is for the benefit of women pensioners with low pensions. The additional 1% for low-pension pensioners despite a full career, to which the ABBV refers, is added. There is an increase in minimum pensions for employees by 2% plus the increase in minimum pensions for self-employed persons by 8% to the level of employees. That is a spending of the welfare envelope for 100 %. Through the tax shift, EUR 50 million will be released for an additional 1% increase. I told you. It is also clear from the government agreement that the periods treated as periods will distinguish between non-working periods with social added value, as already mentioned, and maternity care for children and voluntary non-working periods such as early retirement schemes and non-motivated time credits. So far, my answer, which you will certainly not agree with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I do not agree with you. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, you know that my party does not agree with you; we have already made that clear. After all, on the other hand, the index jump is the result of which those involved have had to turn in. So the numbers don't add up at all. Next, that the minimum pensions would be increased thanks to these EUR 15 million, is opposed to the fact that Minister Bacquelaine has also launched the proposal to raise the highest pensions in addition to this proposal. In this way, there is once again an inequality within pensions, but this is completely aside. Madam Secretary of State, you're pointing to the future. As I said in my previous question, I welcome your national action plan. I appreciate the efforts that are being made in this area. Only 75% of the women who are now retiring do not have the required career at all. They will therefore not be able to benefit from the 1% increase. I want to put it in perspective. I think this is discrimination. I agree with you that this needs to be addressed in the labour market itself. As far as the future is concerned, therefore, we agree, but at the moment there is real discrimination between men and women, and that is completely unfair to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, on 28 July 2011, the Federal Parliament adopted, at the initiative of my group, a law obliging autonomous public enterprises, listed companies and the National Lottery to ensure that at least one third of the members of the board of directors of their company are of different sex. This legislative initiative was taken after the obvious fact that women are not properly represented in the economic and labour world, particularly at the head of enterprises. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men published an initial assessment of the implementation of the Gender Equality Act. It has shown that women's representation on corporate boards has doubled in six years, from 8.2 per cent in 2008 to 12.7 per cent in 2012 and 16.6 per cent in 2014. In 2014, 13.4% of all enterprises surveyed, or 16 out of 119, reached the representation of one third of women. According to the Institute, these results are encouraging and show that the imposition of a "quota" law inevitably brings about changes and advances equality. However, the Institute states from the outset that "the minimum target of one third is far from being achieved for many of them". The Institute therefore recommends that awareness-raising work be continued and strengthened, that parental leave and career breaks be improved and that the balance between private and professional life be further promoted. In his view, quotas should also be introduced on steering committees. Madam Secretary of State, what is your assessment of the application of the Gender Diversity Act on the boards of directors of autonomous public enterprises and listed companies? Do you also think that quota policy is essential for changing attitudes and bringing a direct and visible impact on the ground? What new measures do you think should be taken to help companies reach the legal quota quickly? What efforts should be made to raise awareness among those sectors that have made less progress in terms of equality, such as finance, pharmaceuticals, construction, transport and electricity? Finally, do you agree with the Institute's proposal to introduce a gender quota on the management committees of these companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I will not repeat myself and I agree with the questions raised by my colleague. However, I would like to add a question concerning the gender balance of senior officials. There too, there has been a quota for women for some time. At the first two levels among federal officials, at least one top official in three should be a woman. As far as I can see, the results for 2014 are positive. Only at the absolute top of federal public services the goal of a third woman was not achieved in 2014. Could you give me any figures for 2015? What measures would you take to ensure a balanced representation of women in the summit, and certainly the absolute summit, including in public office?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, the starting point for my question is the same. When there was no government, we managed to get this law through, with a lot of discussions and commotion in Parliament and with opinions from the Council of State. So it wasn't so obvious to get this law passed. We sometimes need quotas or some pressure to move a number of things. At that time, some thought that we did not need it, because it would be self-evident and that the targets would be met. It is therefore a pleasure to see evolution, but there is still a long way to go. I'll come straight to my question. Do you intend to take further measures or initiatives to improve the results of this evaluation report? One of the points in the report concerns the management committees or the top of the companies, whether public or other. What are your views on extending the legal quotas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u30	Thank you for your questions. Indeed, the report of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men indicates that there is work to be done on the feminisation of boards in most companies. The report also shows that women may be well represented in the low and middle frame, but that they hit the glass ceiling, the invisible barrier, which originates in organisational elements, behavioural patterns and prejudices, in order to move on to the highest regions of the Belgian business world. I am not in favour of a restrictive approach to the socio-economic level. However, I am convinced that an approach alone is not enough to allow the existing stereotyped mentality to evolve sustainably towards a mentality that puts gender equality first. We must therefore tackle the problem at the root. Women are often also under-represented by causes that are deeper and have a social dimension, such as the combination of work and family life and the chosen training. It's all been discussed. As you know, the government agreement states that we will work with targets, giving preference to underrepresented groups in the case of equal qualifications, better than the quotas imposed. The quotas currently in force will certainly be retained, as set out in the coalition agreement. I assume that most companies are self-aspired to greater gender equality. In my view, however, it is absolutely essential to take measures aimed, on the one hand, at supporting these enterprises in their objective of achieving equality and, on the other hand, at promoting the employment of women. With regard to these support measures, many initiatives have emerged in recent years and have borne fruit. One example is the Women on Board database, which collects the professional experience of highly qualified women who are likely to be of interest to the boards of directors of listed companies. I can also inform you that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men provides, in the short term, for a moment of exchange of good practices between companies subject to the "quota" law in order to allow good students to share their methods and practices with other companies. In this context, particular attention will be paid to the sectors that have achieved the worst results. It is, of course, also very important to take measures to encourage the participation of women in the workplace and to enable them to pursue their careers. This will undoubtedly be part of the discussions under the National Action Plan for Gender Equality in Labour Relations. This is being developed and all actors will be involved, as I have already explained. There will be consultation with the relevant colleagues. With regard to Mrs Winckel's last question, it is certain that companies should be made aware of the need to treat women and men equally at all levels. Mrs Willaert, specifically in reply to your questions on the gender balance in the government, I can tell you that we are seeing a positive trend. There must be more effort. I'm sure of that. As the figures in the annex show, in 2015, 25% of the terms of office were in the hands of women. In 2007 it was 16%. For middle management, the number of women is 33%. In 2007 it was 23 %. In absolute terms, it represents an average of 33% of women in a managerial position. The positive trend is thus also a result of a number of initiatives taken, such as the fact that in an adapted standard CV part-time experience is treated as full-time experience. Also, in the course of 2016, regulatory provisions on part-time work and new forms of work will be developed by my colleague in Civil Service cases. Opportunities are being sought to improve the work-life balance for all employees, regardless of the life choice they have made and taking into account the gender dimension. If the current trend continues, the objective of the Royal Decree will be met. I will also examine, in cooperation with my fellow Minister of Civil Service in 2016, where there are still gaps and how they can be further addressed, which will result in a report to be submitted to the Council of Ministers by the end of 2016. The aspects of the National Action Plan, referred to earlier, will also be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u31	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I understand that you intend to keep the quotas on the boards of directors. Even at the political level, we all owe our mandate to the quotas put in place. As long as there is no profound change in attitudes, they will have to continue to be imposed. You did not say anything about one of the Institute's recommendations to impose quotas on executive committees. My group had already tabled a proposal to that effect. In 2014, almost half of the management committees surveyed had no women, and 39.1 per cent of them had only one. The situation is not much better in the management committees of public enterprises, since some of them have no women. So we could also work at this level, think and try to impose quotas at the level of the executive committees. I have heard that you have a lot of good intentions, but we have had little clarification on this. You talked about exchange moments that would be organized by the Institute. But perhaps more thought should be given to very concrete measures in this area in order to make real progress; sometimes they must be imposed. Thus, when we see that the representation of women on boards of directors has doubled in six years, we can say that the law has had a positive effect. In my view, we must continue to work in this direction. Madam Secretary of State, I understand that you are going to set up a working group to work on all discrimination against women in the world of work. This is about work comparable to a mammoth. I fear that this will take a long time, when, for the time being, there are many forms of discrimination; I am thinking in particular of pregnant women. Waiting for a year or two is too long. Some measures could perhaps be taken more quickly to move forward on these themes. The same applies to quotas. Should we really wait for the arrival of an umpteenth plan to move forward? In any case, Madam Secretary of State, I will ask you again about the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u32	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to join my colleague on the quotas for the Management Committees. It is clear that quotas work, awareness is important, but that is a soft measure and sometimes tougher measures are also in place. I welcome your response to the civil service and the top posts there. It would be a good thing if it were also the case for the management committees of public enterprises, where women are hardly present. It is therefore important to continue to use quotas in addition to sensitisation. These quotas clearly show that they work, even if there are still steps to be taken, including those governing councils.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u33	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, you are right to say that the root causes must be looked at. When we adopted this law on quotas, we have always said that accompanying measures are necessary and that quotas are needed as a stimulus. Madam Secretary of State, I don't think you answered my next question. I hear the intentions of my fellow Members with regard to the Management Committees, but I asked you about the extension of the legal quota to those management committees and then more specifically to the public authorities. I may not have listened carefully, but I did not hear that in your reply. I'm still curious about that point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u34	Mrs Becq, in the coalition agreement we are talking about targets and existing quotas that remain. As I have just explained, I am in full consultation to address gender equality at work in order to arrive at a national action plan. This will be one of the themes that will be addressed in it in order to achieve greater equality at all levels of the field of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u35	I would also like to add that it would perhaps be a good thing for you, within your party, to work for quotas so that we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u36	I understand your hint.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, on February 6th the International Day to Combat Female Genital Mutilation will be held. This day will, as every year, provide an opportunity to raise awareness and alert the public about these dangerous practices and their serious consequences for the physical and mental health of girls and women. During the presentation of the National Plan of Action to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence 2015-2019, in the Committee of Opinion for Social Emancipation, you told us that the national kit for the prevention and control of female genital mutilation, developed by GAMS and ASBL INTACT, was the subject of several measures provided for in this new Plan. You also stated that a meeting with these two associations was scheduled in January to consider the necessary steps to be taken to enable them to continue their work. The important issue of funding was also to be addressed. Madam Secretary of State, could you share with us the conclusions of this meeting? What about the funding of these associations? Will a working group be set up to implement the Plan's measures on this specific issue? In addition, as we approach this international day to combat female genital mutilation, I would like to know whether a new awareness-raising campaign will be presented in accordance with the new National Plan of Action. If so, how will it be implemented and what will be its partners? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u38	Mrs Winckel, on 22 January, a first meeting with the voluntary sector allowed us to discuss various projects such as new training days for professionals or the further dissemination of the prevention kit. However, the discussions still need to continue; it is premature to mention them now. Coordination of the implementation of the National Plan of Action is carried out by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which is based on an interdepartmental group comprising all the departments concerned, and on thematic expert groups, including associations involved in the fight against female genital mutilation. This does not, of course, preclude the organisation of meetings specifically devoted to this type of violence in the context of certain projects. As such, GAMS and ASBL INTACT have just made a request to the Institute, namely the provision in April of a meeting room and translators as part of a European project to create an e-learning platform on FGM (female genital mutilation) in ten European languages. The purpose of this meeting would be to validate the part relating to Belgium. A European awareness campaign entitled Men Speak Out will be launched this Friday 5 February in Brussels. This is the first European campaign to involve men in the fight against FGM in Europe. Indeed, this issue concerns not only women but all members of the community. The elimination of FGM in Belgium, Europe and the countries of origin requires a strong commitment from men to combat this practice. They must play an active role in this struggle and their involvement is essential. The campaign is jointly organized by GAMS Belgium, the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, the London-based NGO Forward UK and the Himilo Foundation, active in the Netherlands. This project is co-financed by the European Commission's DAPHNE programme. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has contributed financially to the production of video clips and posters accompanying this awareness campaign. Other initiatives are of course also planned locally, as part of the International Day to Combat FGM.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u39	Minister, this is an important subject. It's a good angle of attack to involve men. This theme was an important part of your action plan to combat violence against women. Beyond the European campaign, it is also important to have a national campaign on the subject, we must set up actions but not on a single day. There must be several initiatives during the year. I didn't hear you on the financial side. Is funding provided for INTACT and GAMS activities in relation to the kit they had produced? Is this kit going to be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u40	Mrs Winckel, the budget for the Institute has been increased and part will be used for the involvement and continuation of the plan. An additional amount of EUR 300 000 is granted to the Institute and will also be used for the actions of the plan, including those of GAMS or INTACT. A meeting is planned with them to analyse how to develop the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u41	Questions Nos 7684, 8798 and 9016 by Mrs Lanjri are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u42	My question is related to a bill currently under consideration to combat the abuse of fictitious addresses by recipients of social benefits. This project is based on a gap of 80 per cent or less than the average consumption of gas, water and electricity by citizens. Beyond this difference, the person will be suspected of fraud, either because he or she does not live where his or her place of residence is informed and thus abuses the preferential rates granted to isolated persons, or because he or she harbours persons and is not supposed to do so. Therefore, having not found any information on this subject in the document provided, can you tell me, as Secretary of State with cross-cutting expertise in the fight against poverty, whether you have attempted to identify the difficulties and/or unintended effects of such a project vis-à-vis people in poverty? Has there been a meeting, information session or contact with the federations of these associations whose mission is to combat poverty? Federal and regional platforms specialized in this area exist. As part of your expertise, do you have data to ensure that the consumption standard used as a reference, as well as the deviations considered likely to be fraudulent, are properly established? Given the poor quality of housing, is consumption of people in poverty very different from consumption of people with sufficient incomes? What information do you have about this? Did you investigate to ensure that these atypical consumptions were not likely to weaken these people in the face of the standard set out in the bill? Do you have elements to draw attention to the issue of collective meters and budget meters? The most vulnerable are also the most fragile and often the least informed about their rights. Did you ensure that they were able to understand the reasons for the inspection visits, both at home and in an unexpected manner? Is there not additional stigmatization of this public through these devices? In the end, as Secretary of State responsible for the fight against poverty, did you analyse this project in advance, in order to try to identify its positive effects but also to determine the risks associated with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u43	Madam President, the bill amending the program act of 29 March 2012 concerning the control of the abuse of fictitious addresses by beneficiaries of social benefits with a view to introducing the systematic transmission of consumer data to public utility companies and distribution system operators, with a view to improving the search and comparison of data in data banks in the context of the fight against social fraud, aims to intensify and optimize the fight against benefit fraud and home fraud. This bill is not really within my jurisdiction. I must therefore refer you to my competent colleagues in the field of social affairs and the fight against social fraud and the protection of privacy. But with respect to the analysis of this bill from the perspective of poverty reduction, I can give you the following remarks. People in precarious situations may have at least 80% lower consumption than average consumption by household type. For example, people in precarious situations often live in old and poorly isolated dwellings and are often forced to save on their water and energy consumption. Such a difference of at least 80% will therefore, in accordance with the draft law, be reported to the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, but if the persons concerned receive social benefits, which could certainly be the case for people in precarious situations, the BCSS will communicate these divergent consumption data to the public social security institutions. However, the body concerned cannot rely solely on these consumption data to conclude that there is fraud. The bill makes it clear that this data is not in itself a preponderant to conclude that there is fraud. They can only be used as complementary elements. Since divergent energy consumption is not a decisive factor in concluding that there is fraud in benefits and home fraud, it seems to me that this bill will not pose any additional difficulties for people in precarious situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic330x.u44	Thank you for your answer. First of all, I would say that there has been no consultation with the federations of anti-poverty associations. In itself, I find it unacceptable when such arrangements are made through this bill. In the committee, we asked for hearings. Indeed, it is not about your skills, but you have cross-cutting skills. What I am trying to do is that you can have a role that is to look at what comes on the table to draw attention, to sound alarms and to consult the people concerned on equal opportunities, the fight against poverty, the inclusion of people with disabilities. I regret that this consultation did not take place because there are many elements and information that would have contributed to making this project more appropriate to the objective pursued. You say that having 80% different consumption is not a determining factor but that it will be complementary. The difficulty is that the bill says that, systematically, there is a record of all consumption and that, systematically, as soon as the person is identified as a social beneficiary, he or she is sent to the social security inspection services. Either we send inspectors wherever the 80% is exceeded, and that will be a great deal of effort. All the people on the ground tell you that this will be a useless step that will cost much more than it will bring back. Either it is said – and here we reach the complementary objective – that there are suspicions of unoccupied housing and fraud through knowledge on the ground and, at that time, we are going to look for information in the data bank. I think it would have been better if there had been a preliminary reflection. And that is not what the bill proposes. In addition, during the hearings we have had, we have learned that there are behaviours that poor people, in poorly isolated, humid housing, etc., must adopt to survive. These behaviors are like "we're not going to stay all day in a cold and humid apartment to the maximum, we're going to spend the day in a public place or several in an apartment". I hope they're still allowed to be smart to consume less. There's gonna be a gabegie. There is a risk of undermining the autonomy they develop to get out of it. Finally, I'm afraid they don't understand when they see inspectors coming in and they don't understand why their water and heating consumption is constantly being observed. Even when a child is ill, we will inspect because, that month, the consumption will increase by 80%. I think there's really stigma. I will vote against this bill because I think it needs to be changed. If it passes as it is, it provides for an evaluation within two years. As soon as this bill is passed, you will need to put in place an evaluation mechanism with the actors on the ground, as Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty. This is typically the kind of bill you have to impose yourself on. With regard to poverty, the criteria are not the same as those used for housing recovery or the fight against fraud.
