ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u2	I have received an amendment from Mr Raf Terwingen to the draft law amending criminal law and criminal proceedings and laying down various provisions on justice, Nos 1418/1 to 13. I have received an amendment from Mr. Raf Terwingen to the bill amending criminal law and criminal procedure and introducing various provisions in the area of justice, Nos. 1418/1 to 13. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2016, I propose that the draft law be sent back to the Justice Committee in order to discuss this amendment. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2016, I propose that the bill be referred to the Justice Committee for consideration of this amendment. I propose that this committee, Mr Goffin, meet in the course of this plenary session to deal with the amendment, as decided by consensus in the Conference of Presidents. I propose that the members of the Justice Commission be informed by SMS about the starting time and the room where the committee takes place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u3	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u4	Mr Goffin, Mrs Onkelinx asked whether the committee could meet after the oral questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u5	Mr President, I would have preferred to be able to meet the committee quite quickly. Perhaps after the questions to the Prime Minister? [[Sentiment]] At 3.30 p.m. in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u6	I propose that those members of the Committee on Justice who are not present here should be informed by SMS. The draft law will be debated in plenary today after the amendment has been discussed in committee. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u7	Worrying! Prime Minister, that's what many of us think of...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, that there is a lot to say, but there are also extensive walkways in Parliament. It would be nice and above all polite if the talks were limited to the most necessary and we listened to the questioners and the ministers who answered them. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distressing! I did not find any other word in the dictionary to translate not only my thought but also that of many people who, like you, had to consider that yesterday's consultation committee, which, according to what we have heard, left the impression that some wanted to do the game again in the third half. I do not intend to participate in a new episode of this bad political series that would oppose socialist Brussels tunnels to a liberal will to stop the RER. Instead, I want to ask you about what is essential in the eyes of environmentalists. They want mobility to and in Brussels to be of general interest in discussions and consultations between the Federal State and the federated entities. I have five observations and two questions. First, every day 350 000 commuters come to Brussels. Brussels is already one of the most bottled cities in the world; a sad record that even concerns tunnels. Second, the Plan Bureau announces that in 2030, it will be hell because of road congestion. The FEB says that these traffic jams will cost an additional $8 billion every year. The third observation concerns the health, environmental and welfare implications for Brusselsians and commuters. Fourthly, we note that Belgium committed itself in Paris, at COP21, with 194 countries, to achieving strong objectives in the fight against global warming. As you know, transport accounts for more than 20% of the problems. My last observation is that the federal government has decided to divest 2.1 billion of rail. The announcement of the RER judgment on lines 124 and 161 coming from Nivelles and Ottignies is clearly linked to these savings. Prime Minister, you are also the chair of the consultation committee. Will he seriously consider the mobility issue in relation to the objectives we will have to meet for COP21? We have to make a real modal shift. This must become a real priority, including the RER and the use of stations in Brussels. As chairman of this consultation committee, will you propose an ambitious plan for the future, a methodology for it not to be a confrontational committee but a genuine cooperation committee, for the benefit of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will be recalled that the concertation committee was set up by an ordinary law of 1980. It has experienced ups and downs, agreements and disagreements, but it has always been seen as essential to the proper functioning of the country. And so far, every prime minister who presides over this meeting place between the governments of the country has tried to make it a tool for the maturity of the Belgian federal system. Unfortunately, I see that this committee is no longer working. Not only does it produce very few agreements, but above all it has become a place of mutual distrust. You can't co-operate for the benefit of the country. In addition, aggressive communications, which sometimes are totally disconnected from reality, from what is happening within the committee, give a disastrous image of our country not only to our fellow citizens, but also to the outside world. Belgium and Brussels are not doing well every time the concertation committee meets. Prime Minister, as the first leader of this committee, which you are chairing, do you think that this committee still makes sense in its current conception? Is there a need to change the way in which the Communities of the country interact? What are your short-term thoughts on improving the functioning of the inter-federal dialogue? Will you continue to transform our federalism of cooperation into a federalism of quarrel, distrust and resentment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will not have to rely on the PTB to take a stand in this rather lamentable war between levels of power. Mobility, particularly in Brussels, demonstrates the aberration of all these institutional reforms which have led to a totally unmanageable institutional "lasagne". Many elected members of this assembly, without knowing who exactly, say that certain skills must be reversed and re-federalized. In this debate on tunnels, I recall that Minister Guy Vanhengel is talking about paying for the Leopold II tunnel. There is a lack of public transport, forcing citizens to take their cars and they would also be taxed. After the "Turteltax", there will probably be the "Vanhengeltax". In any case, it is a liberal taxatory rabies that the PTB does not share. The key issue is mobility. Brussels is a world champion: 62% of the 370,000 daily commuters take their cars. Only 26% take the train. Why? That's the question to ask. This is due to the catastrophic situation of the railway, for which Minister Galant and the government as a whole have a certain responsibility: insufficient supply, lack of punctuality, constantly rising prices, closed lines and stations. Today it is reported in the press that in Limburg only one station remains open in Hasselt. There is also the problem of the ER. The newspaper L'Avenir said, "The RER project is in the fridge for a long time." Only €115 million is available, while this project requires €800 million. This is the real problem in terms of mobility. Prime Minister, is this government finally going to have a real mobility policy? Does it intend to return to the €3 billion savings at SNCB and find a solution for the ER?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the whole population has been collapsed to see the image of this concertation committee! This was a major issue that had to be discussed, for the Brussels people and for all Flemish and Walloon commuters. The population was expecting something other than this lamentable spectacle. Instead of discussing a substantive debate in the consultation committee, you have chosen to open a polemic. You are the chairman of this consultation committee and it is therefore obviously your responsibility to ensure its proper functioning and, above all, the interaction between federal and regional policies. Brusselsers, Walloons and Flemish people have long been waiting for solutions to these mobility problems. It is not only a question of mobility, it is also an environmental and health issue. Yesterday, it was a good opportunity for all levels of power to start working in the interests of all citizens. There are many topics: RER, SNCB, taxation, carpooling, public works, disincentive to use the car, etc. Prime Minister, why did you choose polemic rather than debate in the concertation committee? It's a missed opportunity! Are you now ready to give yourself a new chance to find solutions with different levels of power for all Brusselsers and commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, since 1993 Brussels has received one and a half billion in Beliris money to fulfil its metropolitan function. We're finding that it's not working. For the sixth state reform, according to the Authority's calculations, Theo Peeters received a quarter more from the financing model than the other Regions. We're finding that it's not working. With the sixth state reform, Brussels received half a billion more, of which 135 million per year for mobility. We'll find out again that it's not working. Unfortunately, the 135 million is a blank cheque. That's the sixth state reform. Brussels is not even obliged to spend the 135 million effectively on mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u14	Slogans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u15	No slogans, Mr Verherstraeten. The legal act states "for the sake of mobility' and not "for mobility'. The situation of the Leopold II tunnel is dramatic. It is mainly used by Flemish commuters. What do I hear now? Two Brussels excellences, Mr Smet and Mr Vanhengel, are again fishing for Flemish money. They're talking about a toll. Flanders must refinance Brussels once again, after Beliris, after a favourable financing law and after the sixth state reform. Prime Minister, I heard there was a consultation committee. I also heard Prime Minister Vervoort accused you of manipulation. I'm sorry. What was specifically said on the conciliation committee? Is there going to be a toll? What do you think of the standstill, which is particularly damaging to our image, to employers and certainly to commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the polemics that our fellow citizens have absolutely nothing to do with, the situation is urgent and we all know that. As a bruxellois, I am truly ashamed! Here I have the 2012 Brussels Mobility Activity Report. The tunnel chapter states that in 2012, the public-private partnership procedure had been launched and that seven candidates for operators to carry out the work had been recruited, which was to start in 2015 and end in 2017. In 2017, it is not seven candidates entrepreneurs that are being recruited, but, according to the press, seven engineers will be responsible for addressing the problem of tunnel stability. Seven years ago, the Brusselser whom I am was questioning the regional minister in charge of the mobility issue in another parliamentary forum. His answer was then marked by nuance and lucidity. That's how she told me that it would no doubt be useful – we were then in September 2009 – to call on Beliris to finance the 400 million needed for the renovation of the Brussels tunnels. Today, the Region declines any intervention by Beliris and puts forward the idea of taxation, which could be examined if, today, parking was not already very taxed in the Brussels Region. So, in my view, it would be a great deal to opt for a new tax. Prime Minister, inertia at the regional level is challenging. Is she the head of the authorities, of the administrations, I don't know, and finally, it doesn't have much interest! The catastrophic state of these tunnels has long been known. And, like many, I think governing is planning. Leonardo da Vinci, a great engineer, said that "not planning is already moaning!" I think Brussels is moaning on these issues today! Prime Minister, since a consultation committee seems to have discussed this issue yesterday, has the Brussels government presented a programme of work for the small belt in our capital? Has the concertation committee received a request from the Brussels government to start work without delay? Has Beliris received a request from the Brussels government to accompany the work in the tunnels? Is it not possible to return to this time so much wasted by accompanying, at the federal level, this issue which seems so difficult to manage at the regional level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through the inquiries addressed to the government, two questions are actually coming together. As far as the consultation committee is concerned, and many of them have spoken, I want to support the approach that we all need to redouble our efforts, both at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities, to give it an optimal chance of functioning. I note that in one year we have held more than a dozen meetings of the concertation committee, that dozens of decisions have been taken, that the sixth reform of the State, which includes major transfers of staff, is proceeding smoothly, smoothly and without difficulties. But it is normal, in the case of more arduous subjects, as was the case on the climate or, yesterday, on mobility in Brussels, more democratic tensions arise around the table and sometimes even outside. We can affirm the federal government's willingness to make every effort to promote a federalism of solutions, to favour federal loyalty, even if it does not exonerate democratic debates, different approaches, which can intervene in the subjects discussed, often complex, delicate subjects around the table of the concertation committee. This is a first message that I want to give, and I thank the parliamentarians who have supported this ambition to always make efforts to give every opportunity for cooperation in this consultation committee. Secondly, mobility in Brussels is a very important and crucial challenge for the future. A European capital such as Brussels must find sustainable solutions for mobility in the short, medium and long term. The federal government immediately took an initiative, through Minister Reynders, responsible for Beliris. We have proposed support, perhaps within the framework of Beliris. We immediately stated, yesterday at the conciliation committee, that we should support mobility in Brussels in a global approach for the metro, the SNCB and the RER and with a solution for the tunnels. It is the government's position that was expressed around the table. I simply note that, as far as tunnels are concerned, we were told yesterday that studies are under way. I am not appreciating it, I do not want to provoke any further controversy, what I want are solutions. Mr Pivin, we have not received any information on a work schedule, a strategy or a methodology. It's a first element. I also note that the federal government's ambition is to assume its responsibility for the ER. Mr Cheron is right, there is a problem of underfunding due to significant additional work costs. These have been observed for about five years. It has been known for five years that there will be a problem in the RER fund. The government's ambition here too is to find solutions. Mr. Cheron mentioned two lines. One is actually delayed for budgetary reasons. You're right, solutions have to be found. The other is for licence-related reasons. I think you know that very well. Finally, the issue of the metro must also attract our attention in the search for a global solution. I simply conclude by thanking each of the interventions. I repeat once again the will to make every effort to move towards solutions. Our arms are wide open to regional authorities to support efforts to provide a response to commuters, workers, students, Brussels. We believe that it is crucial for the image of Brussels, for its credibility and its ability to support economic development, to offer credible solutions in the short, medium and long term in terms of mobility and compatible with climate issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u18	Prime Minister, what a difference in tone compared to yesterday! It's true that yesterday I wasn't inside the compound, if Mrs Jadin may be interested, I wasn't there. But apparently, many of those who were there did not have the same version. Yesterday we saw an extremely dangerous game, which can be tempting in the short term, but which penalizes everyone in the medium and long term. I am speaking here to all political leaders: this gives all, including us, an unfavorable image in public opinion. I hope we can get together again. On the other hand, when you say that you are ambitious for the consultation committee, that is very good. The best way to give substance to this... I know that some people do not want it; in democracy, it is their right. Maybe they don't always say it in a very frank way. Mr. Vuye, I'm not targeting you specifically. You're soon gone! Environmentalists from Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders will support a working and cooperative consultation committee, especially on issues of real concern to citizens. Let's leave the third half of the matches to football. Let us organize for democracy to live on other subjects, and mobility is essential. Whether it is the RER or mobility in Brussels, which is crucial, let us take up this issue and make a democratic start.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u19	Mr President, the key word is obviously "stupefaction". I am amazed by your answer. Yesterday, we should have just taken a little height and decided, for example, simply to set up three working groups. First, on Beliris, to examine the problem of tunnels and metro in this context. I believe that the minister responsible for Beliris fully agreed. Secondly, a group on the ER should have been set up. It is incredible that the Minister of Mobility did not say a word on the concertation committee, and that she was content to go outside. However, the Walloon RER is at a standstill - believe that Karine Lalieux and Stéphane Crusnière for our group will, together with the other parliamentarians, be keen to cook, in the short term, the Minister of Mobility. Thirdly, a working group on tunnels would have been opportune but not to decide in place of the Brussels-Capital Region. I am pleased that today, with the six parties that make up the regional government, the right decisions have been made. That is a response to those who have cast their contempt for Brussels in this rostrum. It is not a question of taking decisions instead of Brussels, but of seeing the consequences on the trajectory. You were not able to take that height; on the contrary, you participated in a childish stone-throwing contest. You started again with attacks on politicians and a region. Yes, the Brussels Region has been dragged into the mud! Yes, once again, you did the game of your partner N-VA! Be aware that Brussels is better than this lamentable masquerade, which you have orchestrated, and also know that she will remember it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u20	Prime Minister, I heard you say – but perhaps I misunderstood you – that the sixth reform of the state was working. Apparently, we do not participate in the same debates. Just think about our discussions on personal tax, on the Paris summit or, today, on mobility in Brussels. I see above all a desire on the part of elected representatives, but above all of a growing part of the population, to return to this senseless fragmentation of the country. As far as mobility is concerned, you tell us that you are going to solve the problem of the ER. I conclude that you contradict your Minister Galant, who claims that funding is insufficient to complete this project - while ensuring that it is not called into question. But you are well aware that the fundamental challenge is the allocation of SNCB. Indeed, if we withdraw billions from it, we cannot hope to solve the problem of mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u21	Prime Minister, you are calling for the optimal functioning of the consultation committee. That's good! Earlier, in front of the King, you spoke of a "federalism of solutions". That's good! But building it is obviously better. Yesterday, you chose to use the concertation committee for political polemics. I think it's a shame. Moreover, some members of the majority have spoken here as if they were sitting in the Flemish or Brussels Parliament. Prime Minister, the failure to operate the concertation committee and the federalism of cooperation is a demonstration of the impossibility of moving our country forward. I know that, personally, you don't want to! At the same time, as Prime Minister and Chair of this consultation committee, you must make it work properly. In conclusion, I would like to invite you to rise. Yes, there are solutions! It simply remains to have the political will to work in a common, federal and regional way, to get around the table and to launch the necessary construction sites for the RER, public transport, the metro, all the actions to be taken to avoid using the car. Prime Minister, launch these projects as quickly as possible with the Regions!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note that some of the parties here would like to take a look at the functioning of the conciliation committee, to pretend that you are politically responsible for the situation of the tunnels. Evidently, you're not politically responsible for that. The Brussels-Capital Region is politically responsible for this. I hear Mrs Onkelinx saying that the Brussels majority is now making the right decisions. Mrs Onkelinx, you have been in the Brussels majority almost continuously since 1989. So who is politically responsible? Prime Minister, you are not politically responsible, but Mr Pascal Smet, who was Minister for Mobility from 2003 to 2009 and who has been Minister of Mobility again since 2014. Mr Smet must therefore solve his own problems, but he must not expect Flanders to refinance Brussels once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u23	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there have been dozens of studies and working groups spread over years. Money has been spent, sometimes recklessly, for poor results. I have tons of reports in my office - to the town hall of Koekelberg since we have a responsibility for the Leopold II tunnel - about tunnels. The time has come to take action! We are sitting in a parliamentary forum whose motto is "Union is strength". We cannot blame one government for reaching out to others. All we can do is blame those who don't know how to grasp it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u24	Colleagues, I propose that the four following questions, which are essentially on the same subject, be combined, in particular, with the statements made by Secretary of State Francken and Belgium on the future of Schengen, and that the Prime Minister give one answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, the day before yesterday evening, the BBC reported a statement by the Greek Minister for Immigration, Mr Yannis Mouzalas, who gave some remarks to the Secretary of State, Theo Francken, at an informal JHA meeting in Amsterdam. According to the Greek minister, the Belgian Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration said: "I don't care if you drown them, I want you to reject them". If they prove to be correct, these statements are grievous because of their cynicism towards the refugees, because of their condition, while again this morning, the press announced the death of some 20 people, including about 10 children, following a shipwreck. But they are also gravissimistic in that they refer to the application of the very principle of push back, which means that refugees should be pushed back when they arrive near the coasts. If such a principle were adopted by Belgium, it would make our country Hungary or Denmark of Benelux – since this principle goes against international duty – at the very heart of humanist Europe. Either Mr Franken has said this and, in this case, I suppose you condemn them unreservedly because they are unworthy of a member of the government, or it is the Greek Minister who is lying and, in this case, we would be in a diplomatic crisis that could only end with Greece's apology. I note that my remarks make the Minister of Foreign Affairs smile. But he is probably not concerned about the situation of refugees, which is a matter of great concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u26	Mr President, Madam, I would just like to point out to you that yesterday I was already questioned by the Greek ambassador to whom I replied. My answer is well known to all as it has been taken up in the media. Having said that, I invite you to ask your question, knowing that you are likely to get the same answer as I gave yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for allowing me to ask my question. Let me tell you that it is indecent that when a Member of Parliament asks a question about facts that seem to him serious for the image of Belgium, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs wink at the eyes while smiling. But no doubt it is a question of perception! Having said that, I come to my questions, even though I am supposed to know the answers. Prime Minister, have you been informed of the facts? How did you react? Have you had, or has your Foreign Minister had, contacts with the Ambassador of Greece or the Ambassador of the Netherlands, since it was the Netherlands who chaired this meeting and, in so doing, is the guarantor of the report of the meeting. In any event, for the PS group, it is impossible for us to stay there because of the integrity and dignity of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u28	Prime Minister, I would like to know from you the position taken by our country at the last European summit and the vision of the Dutch proposals on asylum and migration. I shall be very brief about the Greek Minister's allegations. I'm holding my heart, but I hope they're not right. We cannot say much more about this either. I ask you very clearly that you confirm that the push back of war refugees in boats on the Mediterranean Sea is morally reprehensible and illegal. Prime Minister, the right to asylum exists, and that is a good thing. I hope you and I will never have to use it. The fact that men, women and children are sent back in boats at sea, including to Turkey, a country in which we cannot even apply for asylum, is totally unacceptable and reprehensible to us. The last few days have often been about the position of Greece. I have been disturbed by the statements on the subject, and I find the ease with which we are pointing the finger at the Greeks shocking. We have had a great deal of trouble here in our own country at the peak moments in the refugee crisis to accommodate several thousand refugees, think of the tent camp in Brussels. And then a Theo Francken loosely comes out of the wrist and impulsively says that the Greeks should only set up a camp to receive 400 000 refugees. Come on, show a little intellectual honesty and a little reasonableness. Greece is a poor country, it cannot do that alone, Europe will have to help, whether we like it or not. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to insist that some members of your government find at least the serenity needed to deal with a problem like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u29	Prime Minister, the migration crisis is becoming unmanageable proportions. In 2015, according to Frontex figures, no less than 1 850 000 people illegally entered the Schengen area, and then pierced several European countries, including Belgium. A repetition of this in 2016 should be avoided. Not only is there no support for this chaos anymore. The uncontrolled influx is also bringing many European countries into a political crisis. We must also remember the dead, Prime Minister. The dead are the worst. Last month alone 177 people died in the Mediterranean. Last year there were no less than 3 770. I have just learned that today, off the coast of Samos, 11 more people, including 7 children, lost their lives in a rickety boat. Prime Minister, this madness must stop. There must be an end to the life-threatening crossings and the lucrative business of the many smugglers. We are pleased that the Netherlands, as President of the European Union, is finally putting on the table a constructive plan aimed at putting an end to illegal crossings. What is your opinion on the Dutch Government's plan? What is your personal opinion on that? Will the Belgian Government support this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u30	Mr President, before my speaking time, I would like to express my regret that you have merged my question with the other one, because I wanted to stay explicitly away from the questions raised by the Secretary of State. My question concerns the future of Schengen. Prime Minister, Europe is under pressure. We need to act properly and carefully, especially now that the debate on Schengen border controls has been opened. At the beginning of this week, an informal Council was held in Amsterdam to consider the activation of Article 26, namely the extension of the re-implemented border controls at internal borders. This would be a temporary withdrawal from one of the greatest achievements of the united Europe. Schengen is the practical development of our internal European interlinkage and the long-established mutual trust between the Member States. It connects our inhabitants, our economies and our values. Indeed, the problems need to be addressed. As long as external border controls do not work optimally, the extension can be considered temporarily, but we must be aware that it does not only have concrete consequences, such as the costs of transporting goods and services between Member States, border and passport controls and the associated traffic jams; the question is also whether or not we are calling into question the foundation or cornerstone of the European project. Mr Prime Minister, it is clear that there are fundamental questions here and the answers to them will help determine the future of Europe. Hence my specific questions. What position and attitude does our country adopt in the debate? I would like to hear more from you about our country's position on the informal council at the beginning of this week. What considerations were made? What will be the arguments for Belgium to re-normalize the situation? I am referring to the reduction of Article 26 and the lifting of internal border controls. Or are we going to assume three times an extension of six months anyway? Prime Minister, what do you think will be the impact of the decision to call that article on the future of the Schengen area? What are the economic consequences of the decision on border controls for Belgium? Finally, Prime Minister, what is the state of play regarding the operation of hotspots and registration centres? Of course, we need to act in the context of the migration crisis, but should we not focus on developing European external border control, on the effective impact of the screening and registration hotspots and on the distribution plan? In other words, what are our country's political choices here?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the first question in connection with the statements made by the Greek Minister, I can simply support what was confirmed by Mr Reynders in committee yesterday. The Greek Minister spoke after an informal Council with reference to statements allegedly made by Mr Theo Francken, which is formally denied. A statement was immediately issued by Mr. Theo Francken. I can tell you, to meet Theo Francken for months within the government, that our approach is in line with the government's option; to combine dignity, humanity and firmness. In a few months, we have doubled the number of places to try to assume our international responsibilities while being firm and strict and implementing the return decisions as they should be implemented. That's the line we're defending, a balanced line. And you will have observed that no one at European level has in any way stigmatized the way in which Secretary of State Theo Francken, with the support of the government, is conducting this policy in a difficult momentum at European level because there is an exceptionally high, historically high influx. That is a first point I wanted to point out. Second point. Some have asked me about the strategy in the coming weeks, in the coming months, in an attempt to provide answers. We are faced with a very delicate and complex challenge, which puts incredible pressure on the European project and on the Schengen area. I have the impression that on paper, a few months after the first European summit on refugees, there is a consensus that we should better organise control at the external borders of Europe and that we should make the hotspots for systematic registration more operational. This is the reasoning on paper, in theory. Everyone says that Frontex needs to be strengthened. Capacity building at Europe's borders is necessary to have the ability to identify who is entering Europe. The problem is, for the past few months, it has not been operational enough. This is not fast enough and in the coming months it is crucial that the decisions taken at the JHA and the European Council are operational. A second point is the relationship with Turkey which is part of the strategy. It is important to organise strategic cooperation with Turkey without being naive. I've said that a few times. In this respect, I want to make it clear that we expect Turkey to respect its commitments. The Dutch proposal mentioned in the press was discussed very informally in the margins of the last European Councils. It has therefore not yet been formally formulated. Perhaps it will be on the occasion of the forthcoming summits. What is my reasoning in this regard? Two points need to be addressed: relocations and relocations. We believe that it is not possible to resettle further in the absence of much stricter and effective controls that stop illegal migration flows, particularly from Turkey and through Greece. We believe that this proposal should be analysed in terms of its feasibility, practicality and legal nature. Is it in line with international conventions? Is it a European solution? So we have this debate on relocation – hotspots and European management – and resettlement. Finally, I would like to mention one extremely important point: the pressure on the Schengen area. I want to be very clear about that. No one disputes that the Schengen area is an added value for Europe. The possibility of open borders in Europe is clearly an added value. It is crucial for the future to protect and defend the Schengen area. That is the position of the Belgian Government. At the same time, we do not want to be naive. We know that the Schengen area is in great danger if we are not able to organise effective controls at the external borders of Europe in the very short term. The situation is, of course, very delicate and sensitive. It is crucial that Belgium, as is always the case, again plays a positive role at European level in protecting the Schengen area and offering a chance for a strong Europe capable of providing the best response to what our fellow citizens expect. These are the few indications I wanted to give you. In conclusion, at the meeting of the Committee of Opinion on European Affairs to be held at the end of February, we will have the opportunity to open an in-depth debate on the basis of the draft conclusions to be presented by the Presidency of the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u32	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I have read Mr Franken's statement and I have not seen that he rejects the words attributed to him on the push back. For the rest, I read what he said. Having said that, I am convinced that we cannot have a half measure in this case. We will not receive any excuses from Greece. There will therefore remain a doubt that affects the integrity and dignity of Belgium. In this case, Prime Minister, all your efforts to improve Belgium's image abroad will be in vain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have made an analysis and found that the European approach to the asylum crisis is not yet working optimally. The theory is there, but in practice a lot of things go wrong. I am certainly pleased that you have defended the Schengen area. That was necessary and I hope you spoke on behalf of the entire government. It is imperative that the external borders of Europe are better monitored and that Greece does not allow asylum seekers to flow through without delay. However, one also brings the other. We have a European distribution plan. We cannot ask Greece to keep all refugees in its own country. These refugees must be spread across Europe. And then we have our highly acclaimed distribution plan: 160 000 refugees should be spread across Europe. To this day, only 300 people are scattered. Europe must look into its own bosom instead of all too easily naming the Greeks as the great scapegoat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You say that the Rutte plan is not yet formally on the table. I think the debate is open. The position of the N-VA can be clearly expressed and is in line with the Rutte plan. The government has already made a great deal of efforts to receive asylum seekers; the uncontrolled and, above all, unjustified influx must stop. In order to prevent further tragedies in the Mediterranean and even more asylum seekers, everything must be done for reception outside Europe, for reception in its own region. That may cost money from Belgium and from Europe. There is currently a safe shelter in Turkey, so the shelter must be there. That is where Europe's task lies, and I hope that you will also put it on the table and defend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u35	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your attention. I tabled my question because I believe that our country should be careful about the achievements of our predecessors, particularly in relation to a united Europe with open borders. Reducing Schengen can have a significant impact on the free movement of goods and persons. So we need to work carefully and know how to normalise the situation if we are to take steps in this respect. Yes, of course, the migration crisis must be tackled and the answer must be European, as you have just confirmed. I trust, Prime Minister, that Belgium will play a positive, constructive role in Europe and that the representatives of our country will support this message in formal and informal settings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u36	Mr President, Minister, shooting at Grande-Synthe in the jungle of Calais, shooting at Dunkirk, alleged terrorist arrested in a Fedasil centre in Jumet, harassment in Brussels, wave migration from northern France to our coasts of the North Sea, here, ladies and gentlemen, is a brief summary of the various facts of this week! Greece still does not control its borders, while Turkey, which will receive substantial financial support from Europe, organises through Turkish Airlines, a network in Africa linking most African capitals and offering a visa at low cost upon arrival. We are talking here about one of the channels favoured by the migratory flow. Clearly, Europe, at least on this issue, is not working! There is growing talk of the death of the Schengen agreements, as Greece is threatened with being suspended from them. Several European countries have closed their borders hermetically. And we in Belgium are spectators, but welcoming spectators, so welcoming that neither the municipal authorities nor the regional authorities forbid the arrival of Tariq Ramadan, a controversial personality if any, grandson of the founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, and who will speak at a new exhibition exhibition in Charleroi. Of course, the Prime Minister wrote to his French counterpart. Of course, you have taken many measures to combat terrorism. I interviewed the Prime Minister this week in committee. But you still haven't ordered the expulsion of dangerous imams or the closure of Salafist mosques. You refuse to combine asylum-seekers' files with terrorist threats. Citizens do this in your place, because according to the latest Ipsos poll, "81 % believe they agree with the following statement: the influx of refugees into Europe and Belgium is a problem for our way of life". I'm coming to my question. Mr Minister, do you intend to strengthen security policy in Belgium by closing our borders on the one hand and expelling these radical fundamentalists or denying them access to our territory on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u37	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, thank you very much for all your thoughts. I will answer your specific questions. With regard to Schengen and our borders, the Prime Minister responded earlier. I would add that, since mid-October, police action has been taking place in the border regions and on the main routes of trafficking, precisely to search for these refugees and those human traffickers. This action has been very successful. Many people have been found. In addition, many human traffickers, who are criminals, have been arrested. For the rest, I refer to the Prime Minister's statement concerning Schengen. I come to your questions about hate preachers and mosques. These are two of the eighteen measures we have announced and are working on. We will present them to the government as soon as possible and submit them to the special committee of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. Citizens expect strong, clear and unambiguous actions from you to reassure them. That is the wish of the entire population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u39	Minister, this week the Prime Minister responded to the abuses in the refugee camps in Calais and Dunkirk. The appalling situation in these camps also affects our country and our coasts, for example the transit migrants who are also looking for a way to Great Britain along our coasts. However, you are aware of this. A few weeks ago, the coastal mayors wrote you a letter. The governor, Carl Decaluwe, has already raised the alarm several times. You have already done a few things, such as two extra shifts at the shipping police at night and two extra people during the day. However, this has proved insufficient. Every night I repeat: every night the local police have to take out tents in the dunes. You understand that the manpower in the coastal communities is not sufficient. The provincial governor therefore convened a meeting this week with police services, the Red Cross, Defense, the Federal Health Inspectorate and Doctors Without Borders. They all have one message: make sure that refugee camps such as Calais and Dunkirk cannot arise on our coasts. Make sure you're detached in that area. You have been aware of the problem for many weeks. I am afraid to take the word months in the mouth. One looks in your direction to act decisively. It is about dealing with the economic refugees and the recruiters. I have three very specific questions for you, Minister. You have announced that you are working on mobile handling teams to assist in the migration issue. When are they getting there? You have said that you want to use extra federal police officers with the emphasis on additional services in the local areas. Will they, as it were, be released tomorrow? Can there be extra support tomorrow? Were you aware of the meeting with the governor? Did you learn from that? Finally, it can't be that West Flanders is one of the few provinces where no foreign affairs officer has been appointed to speed up the administrative process, while one in three illegals is arrested in West Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u40	Mr Demon, thank you very much for your question, because the problem you are raising is extremely important and needs to be tackled with determination. I will not tolerate the creation of tent camps in this country, as in Calais. I repeat: we will not tolerate that! There's a lot of pressure on our police capacity. We know that. We are still living with a level three terrorist threat. There is also the refugee crisis. The pressure on capacity is therefore high. This applies to the local police, but so does the other police units. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor, the governor and the local population that the actions on this issue are now starting. In beautiful Dutch:as we speak. At 15:00 an action by the shipping police, the railway police and the local police, reinforced by the federal police, was launched, which will last until tonight. As of tomorrow, eight police inspectors from the federal reserve will be added to the troops there. Also, as of tomorrow, an official of the Foreign Affairs Office will be present locally to register more quickly. We will not tolerate the creation of tent camps in Zeebrugge and in the vicinity of Zeebrugge. We are your partner in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u41	Minister, you know that the water is on the lips of our police and the mayors. I hope we can keep this up. If you will install additional ANPR cameras, you might want to consider doing this on the coast, as they can also be used to capture criminals or human smugglers. Thank you for taking additional measures now, including in West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u42	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of refugees has been addressed at the moment and I welcome what Minister Jambon has said, namely, 'No Calais on Belgian territory'. The question I wanted to ask you is more directly related to the vote on a shocking law in Denmark. It can be approached in different ways, try to understand why, how and how, and take into account the importance of Denmark's social contributions to refugees. All this can be heard. But it is deeply shocking to vote for a piece of legislation to seize the financial resources of these people, even though they are already terribly vulnerable in view of their situation! My group and I wanted to stress this. We are doing this more calmly than we have done in the European Parliament; I agree. Nevertheless, this sentiment inspires us as advocates of the European project, a Europe that is always said to be liberal. That Europe is liberal is not a problem to me, provided that it really is and remains so. However, Mr Minister, the Polish, Hungarian, Danish and so on issues. give the impression that it is time to reflect on the solutions to this kind of cancer, which is completely distorting the European democratic project that we support. My questions are relatively simple, although, in my opinion, the solutions are extremely complex. Minister, what is your reading of what happened in Denmark? In what way do you envisage working so that we can finally get the European Union out of the rut in which it is likely to sink?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u43	Mr President, Mr Miller, as far as the facts are concerned, Denmark has an opt-out on asylum policy, but that does not prevent it from having to comply with international conventions. Within the European Union itself, the 2013 Directive allows for a number of things, including the contribution of refugees who would have the means to finance the aid they receive. Denmark has adopted legislation by a very large majority, with a large part of the opposition, which goes further, leaving 1,300 euros for refugees and some jewellery of sentimental value. The rest can be confiscated. The first reaction is to be shocked by legislation that goes so far and allows, in an intrusive way, to grab the goods and incomes of people who simply try to escape drama in their countries of origin, since they are refugees candidates and sometimes recognized refugees. The European Commission is currently examining this legislation, and I hope that we will receive an opinion on the exact state of affairs, as it has examined legislation in Poland recently. It is important to initiate procedures in this area, even if Denmark is in a somewhat special situation with this asylum opt-out. After the various cases we have seen, Belgium, probably with other partners, will make a proposal to the European Council, that of setting up a genuine mechanism for monitoring rights, as we have a mechanism for monitoring budgets. As I said recently in this House, there is no reason why we should monitor respect for fundamental freedoms, for individual rights, less than budgets. We would like to see a report on the state of rights in the 28 Member States every year. Then, on a proposal from the Commission, with possible recommendations, this debate would take place in the General Affairs Council before going to the European Council. What we are experiencing today in terms of migration and security, which often leads to the adoption of new legislation in many European states, requires much closer monitoring, I repeat, of the situation of rights and freedoms, as is done for budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u44	Minister, thank you for the answers. I can only congratulate you and encourage the government to continue on the path announced and confirmed – because you mentioned the possibility in committee. I believe that the European Union really needs a mechanism to monitor rights. To Mrs Onkelinx, who was just grumbling behind my back about the Polish resolution, I can say that I am glad that I did not vote for your resolution when I hear that the government is defending the idea of a European mechanism that would allow the Union to resolve all the cases, not just Poland, as you wanted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u45	The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the security of the state was already aware in 2012 that Muslim extremists in Molenbeek were forging gruesome plans. At the apartment of Gelel Attar, a Moroccan Belgian who is currently also suspected of being involved in the attacks in Paris, Zerkani met with his accomplices. They have intercepted talks in which it was literally about, I quote, plans for an armed battle against the main enemy of Islam, Western democracy. Talks have also been intercepted about how to get weapons of war, exposives and the like. Thus, Zerkani was already developing a network, the composition and content of which was known. It was then that people realized the seriousness of the actions that were being planned. Of course, I do not want to claim that nothing has happened to that knowledge, that is what no one claims. However, you cannot deny, Minister, that despite all this information, the Zerkani network was not shut down. On the contrary, that network has been able to grow in such a way that it was one of the key pills in the attacks that took place in Paris. Three of Zerkani's recruits, including Abaaoud, were involved in the attacks in Paris. It is striking that the Syrian fighters who recruited Zerkani could simply go back and forth to Syria, whether armed or not. All this could happen freely. They travelled back and forth to Syria whenever they wanted. There's even one of them, Soufiane Alilou, who crossed over five times before he was arrested. Minister, I wonder how all this could happen. Isn't that a guilty omission? Will you investigate very carefully why no more vigorous action was taken? Can you tell me how you will bring out the bottom stone in this? Such deadly blunders must be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Pas, you know that this week the Security of the State responded in detail to press coverage, which was remarkably a result of a journalist's knowledge of the content of a verdict. So the journalist quoted from a verdict, which suggests that our court should be reasonably well aware of everything that has happened, because a verdict has already been passed on it. Both Mr Attar and Mr Zerkani received very severe penalties in a judgment of 29 July 2015. You cannot say that the federal court with the information available to the State's security at the time did nothing. On the contrary, serious convictions have been requested and obtained by the Justice Department. Mr Attar left the Belgian territory in early 2013. An international arrest warrant has been issued and he has recently been arrested in Morocco. So that order was followed. After the arrest in Casablanca, we have no knowledge of any connection between Mr Attar and the facts in Paris. Saying that there are links between what was established in 2012 and the attacks in Paris is certainly a few blocks too far. I believe that the services have done what they can with this information. Doesn't that turn out to be from the conviction that was pronounced on Zerkani and Attar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u48	Minister, your answer does not reassure me at all. You're referring to a conviction. Indeed, two of the convicts were punished, but not arrested, because they were not prevented from carrying out the massacre in Paris. Zerkani's stuck, but his network wasn't shut down, it could've survived. That's my point. You cannot deny that this was an important factor in the attacks in Paris. The Flemish interest wants to prevent such blunders from happening in the future. I have tabled a proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. In this case, we must take the bottom line. Let me give you a concrete example of why I am convinced that there are still problems with the security services. The Flemish Interest regularly asks this Parliament whether there are any terrorist suspects or IS refugees among the many asylum seekers, as ISIS itself announces, but this is always denied. At the end of last year, Minister Vandeput, in the name of Minister Jambon, claimed that there was no hit on the many refugees. Only yesterday an Iraqi ISIS refugee was apprehended and it also came to light that the security of the State was already aware of his presence in May. Well, I think there are only two possibilities. Either the relevant ministers do not have the crucial information from the security services, or both ministers lie to the Members of Parliament. That is a very big problem in both cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u49	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some mosques...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the noise is simply unbearable for people who are speaking here. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect each other and make less noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u51	Mr President, thank you for your statement. Some mosques, especially in Brussels, have been making news in recent months because they were accused of being responsible for spreading a rigorist, Wahhabi, Salafist Islam. The mosque of the Fiftieth Anniversary is one of the examples. Some mosques were even accused of being linked to jihadist channels and youth recruitment for Syria. I wanted to be clear about the accounts of the ASBLs that run some of these mosques. I went, as any citizen can do, to the Registry of the Brussels Commercial Court to see what the accounts of these non-profit organisations and their statutes were. I was able to access the file of the Grand Mosque of the Cinquantenaire, with its business number and its statutes. I've had confirmation of extremely interesting things, which we already knew sometimes. For example, it is the major role of Saudi Arabia's control over this mosque and the ASBL, which not only manages this mosque, but has as its social object the dissemination of a rigorist Islam in Belgium, the construction of mosques, Islamic schools. Control by an executive office is carried out by foreign representatives. The Saudis are the majority, there is only one Belgian out of nine members of this executive board. What's surprising is that there's no account. Since the creation of this ASBL, i.e. for decades, no account has ever been filed at the Registry of the Brussels Court. However, the law obliges the NSOs to deposit their accounts. They may be struck down by the Brussels Court of First Instance under an injunction from the Public Prosecutor's Office if they have not filed their accounts for three years. I also went to see the accounts of a second ASBL, which manages the Al-Khalil mosque, which unfortunately came to the fore due to jihadist channels. The last accounts are from ten years ago and have called me. These are the accounts for 2004, 2005 and 2006. It is realized that this ASBL receives donations for 200 000 euros per year, contributions for 138 000 euros (for the year 2005) and that in reality its operating costs are much lower than its revenues. Each year, this mosque accumulates 200,000 euros of net revenue. Its own funds were at the time, ten years ago, of EUR 2 million. Minister, do you find it normal that there is absolutely no transparency, total opacity, and that the government has never intervened to regularize this situation or, if necessary, dissolve these non-profit organizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u52	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, thank you for this question. It is true that the ASBLs, small and large, must deposit their accounts with either the National Bank for the big ones or with the Registry of the Commercial Court for the small ones. In case of absence, there are three penalties: inadmissibility of actions, impossibility of accepting liberalities, and what you call "discontinuing", thus judicial dissolution. The rule in our country is that recognized cults cannot, under any circumstances, receive subsidies from abroad. For unrecognized cults, and therefore for unrecognized places of worship, we examine, as part of the post-Verviers measures, whether it would be possible to give the Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF) the task of examining whether or not such unrecognized places of worship receive foreign liberalities. In its mercurial proceedings, the Prosecutor General of Brussels has attached particular importance to this subject, particularly in the context of the BELFI project. He pointed out that this would be a priority for the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels. I will not fail to ask him the question of the development of the dossier at our next meeting. As for the government, for the time being, the Minister of the Interior and I are looking at the possibility of assigning complementary tasks to the CTIF, especially with regard to the subsidies and liberalities received from abroad by unrecognized places of worship.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I sincerely ask you to be diligent in this regard. Indeed, it is absolutely not normal that these non-profits who manage places and advocate a rigorist Islam in connection with certain channels could at this point violate the law. Secondly, large sums of money are circulating. You state that these organizations cannot receive money from abroad. Yet it is clearly stated in the statutes of the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium, which administers the Great Mosque of the Fiftieth Anniversary, that it can receive gifts and gifts from abroad as well as from international organizations interested in the cause. It therefore seems to me urgent that all the light be shed on this aspect. Finally, and my point concerns your colleague in Finance, there is a tax on legal persons. I'd like to know if it's been collected, because it doesn't appear anywhere in the accounts that it's been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you intend to apply a 1% correction to minimum pensions. It is necessary to raise minimum pensions. The pensioners were not treated very nicely by this government. We have had the index jump that would be compensated, but was actually not compensated. We have had the VAT increases and you would now apply a social correction for the minimum pensions. Unfortunately, as this government very often does, it is immediately building up a very great injustice. Who will be able to enjoy this correction? Those who have a 45-year career. In addition, you also intend to mortify and completely revise this system. Minister, this is unfair and above all unfair to women. You know very well that very few women have a 45-year career. In addition, if you will revise the system of treated periods, what will you do with maternity leave or with care for sick children, for which women are usually eligible? Minister, this is really unfair. Only 1 in 10 women will be able to enjoy your increase. If you claim that you will increase minimum pensions in this way, that is a huge exaggeration. I am pleased that I see a lot of noding on the CD&V banks, because indeed, CD&V has already stated several times that there should not be any hits on the treated periods. You will now. Minister, you received a delegation from the Common Trade Union Front this morning. They have made you another proposal, one that is entirely within your budget. They want to apply that 1% to all pensioners for all minimums. Then you come to 22 million, while you have 25 million. For next year, the Common Trade Union Front is ready to put this into the welfare envelope. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Are you prepared to respond to the proposal of the Common Trade Union Front? If you are not, then I must almost accuse you of seeing women every time. I ask you what measures you will take to reverse the women's unkindness of your proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has decided to spend EUR 25 million on the revaluation of minimum pensions, on top of the welfare envelope. In order to strengthen the link between employment benefits and pensions, the government proposes to increase the low pensions by 1% for full-time pensioners. This measure is by no means discriminatory for women. On the contrary, of those who are able to benefit from this measure in the workers' system, 69 per cent are women and 31 per cent are men. In fact, this is a new pension bonus for men and women with a long career, who nevertheless receive a low pension. The career condition already existed for the old bonus. That bonus was less social, as he talked about all pensions, including higher pensions. The existing discrimination between men and women in the field of professional careers must be addressed at source, at career level. After all, the pension reflects the career performance. I confirm my will to strengthen the link between employment benefits and the pension amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I find your answer really unimaginable. You are now claiming that pensioners have a career of 45 more women than men. However, there are many more women who do not have a career of 45 years. The majority of women do not have a career of 45 years because they have taken maternity leave because they have taken care of the children because they have worked part-time. You don't take these women into account at all. Minister, one in ten women will be able to benefit from your measure and nine out of ten will not. And you dare say this is a woman-friendly measure. You say you want to promote the relationship between work and retirement. A woman who is 70 years old and has worked for 36 years has little message to you. However, with the fact that she has had an index jump and an increase in VAT and excise duties, you do not take into account at all. Minister, your measure is unjust and woman-unfriendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u57	Minister, pension reforms are an important part of the government agreement. In a year and a half you have already implemented a lot of reforms. You may not be the most talkative minister, but you are someone who shows decisiveness: the increase in the statutory retirement age, the reform of the early retirement pension, the reduction of the diploma bonus. You do all this to make our pensions sustainable. If pensions are reformed, it is important that people also see the impact of these reforms. You have made efforts in the field of minimum pensions. In the debate just now, you have also shown that you are prepared to make further social corrections. However, I read this morning that you also have plans for the pensions of the middle class, because the lowest pensions are always discussed here. At last, however, someone is planning to do something about the pensions of the middle class! I'd like to talk to you about that. Middle-class pensions were capped at a maximum of EUR 1 670 net in 1997, under the last centre-left government. However long one has worked and no matter how much one has earned, the pension will never be higher than EUR 1 670 net. Some call that a high pension, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a modest pension. After all, if people know that a day in a rest home costs 50 euros, you can quickly make the bill. That is why it is a good thing that you are finally dareing to act, Minister. After all, there must be pay according to work, not only in what one earns monthly, but also in the pension that one gets. I therefore have two questions for you, Minister. When do you intend to implement your ambitious plan? Do you intend to apply the measures you propose for employees, namely to increase the middle-class pension, to the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u58	Mr President, thank you for your question. The four proposed reforms are part of the government agreement and of my general policy paper. They aim to strengthen the link between employment benefits and the pension amount. More specifically, the following measures are involved. Firstly, the gradual abolition of the principle of limitation to the unity of careers. For example, additional pension rights can also be built up after the reference career. Secondly, the revaluation of the wage ceilings used for the calculation of pensions. Thirdly, giving more weight to periods of effective employment compared to periods of unemployment and early retirement. Finally, the reform of minimum pensions. From now on, career prospects in all schemes, i.e. for employees, self-employed persons and civil servants, will be taken into account for the opening of entitlement to the minimum pension. The wage ceiling used in the calculation of the employee's pension is today around 53 000 euros. This means that those who earn more do pay contributions on full pay, but do not receive pension rights for that. I propose that that wage ceiling be adjusted to monitor the evolution of wages. Without an adjustment of the wage ceiling, the difference between the minimum pension and the maximum pension is getting smaller and smaller. In this way, everyone would eventually receive a minimum pension. This reform also fits in with the introduction of the points system. The expert committee's report indeed provides that the value of the point follows the wage evolution. For the self-employed, similar measures will of course be developed in consultation with Minister Borsus to strengthen the link between career and pension. It is intended to apply those measures from 1 January 2018. The regulatory provisions will be adopted before the end of this year after social consultation. I come to my conclusion. It is necessary to gradually increase the replacement rate of less than 50% of wages today. It is necessary to take better and more account of the work done during the career.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You have the support of our group. Mr De Vriendt has just said that this is a rather revolutionary measure. He has correctly assessed this, because it is the first time that a government will ensure that the middle class also sees its pension increase. What amazes me is that after the announcement of that plan the unions were already manifesting this morning and did so in a way that borders on the lying. The trade unions now claim that these higher pensions for the middle class will be at the expense of those with low pensions. Nothing could be further from the truth. By asking people to work a little longer, we want to increase everyone's pensions, the low, middle and high pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u61	No, Mr Nollet, this was not a personal fact. We will not discuss this. You have not been compromised in any way. Mr Van Quickenborne has pointed at you at the most. We won't open that door.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u62	Mr President, I never interfere with the way in which you conduct the work relatively objectively. In this case, the Rules of Procedure clearly state that there is a personal fact and you must give the floor to the person charged by the speaker in the rostrum. That's the rules!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u63	If I recall correctly, Mr. Frédéric, Mr. Van Quickenborne said that...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u64	Mr. President, he was quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u65	Mr Van Quickenborne said that the proposal he was discussing was referred to by Mr De Vriendt as a revolutionary proposal. That statement does not in any way jeopardise the personal integrity or position of the Member. That is why we will not open that door within the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u66	Mr President, I do not want to upset you with the principle - as far as I am concerned, I have principles - but, again, you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u67	(...) [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u68	Mr Geerts, your speaking time will now begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u69	Mr President, I will raise my voice and try to go beyond the fuss. I would like to take care not to mention fellow Members by name, but I must mention you, Madam Minister, because of what follows. Last week we had a hearing in this House on the Galileo modernisation plan. In fact, I can recount all day long in the following three conclusions of the civil society organisations. Firstly, there are indeed opportunities to work more efficiently. I believe that all the speakers have confirmed this. Secondly, it was said there that the Galileo modernisation plan is actually a flat-rate saving measure, a savings plan from the Michael administration, from 2.1 billion to 3 billion, at a time when the climate debate is topical and the congestion has never been this long. Thirdly, it is noted that this is a very curious conclusion from all the partners, both employers and employees, that there is no vision of organizing mobility in the short and long term. However, this view would have an impact not only on the environmental aspect, but also, and above all, on the economic aspect. This week we hear again the idea of making train tickets more expensive. This may seem quite innocent, but the CRB's opinion makes it very clear that both employers and employees are opposed to this. If you continue with this plan, something quite exceptional will arise, namely a demonstration with people from VBO and VOKA as well as the syndicated organisations. The CRB unanimously says it is against an increase in train tickets during rush hour, because people have no free choice, because workers and students again pay the bill of this government, but also because of the economic cost. It's clearly written down. In addition, this is practically not feasible; think about the kafka test. So my question is whether the government remains committed to making train tickets more expensive during rush hour, knowing what impact this has on the economy and mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have often said, I would like to enable SNCB to pursue a more modern and more flexible commercial policy. The customer must be at the heart of this. SNCB's pricing policy is part of its commercial policy and must be directly related to the quality of service and train supply. The dossier will be discussed together with other dossiers in the context of the preparation of the next management contract. So let us be clear today. Let us stop the rumors. It was never planned to increase subscriptions prices during peak hours. I'm an opponent of that, too. I therefore share the advice of the trade unions and employers, which was given through the Central Business Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer, in which all those present have heard that there will be no increase in train tickets during peak hours. However, allow me to conclude that you are again opening your umbrella here by referring to SNCB. If SNCB comes forward with such proposals, this means that it has still not received any clarity from the government and no longer knows what wood to make in order to achieve the savings. It is clear that, in the context of the environmental interest and economic interest, the government must review public transport savings plans, which will not be a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u72	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Limburg's Interest headlined today: "Four operational stations close by 2020 in Limburg." According to the railway union ACOD, the stations of Tongeren, Sint-Truiden, Genk and Hasselt would no longer be open by 2020. This year the number of counters in Neerpelt would be cut in half and only open in the morning. Today's Poem Day. I would therefore like to introduce to you a haiku by Thomas Leys: "The window closes; what now with the traveller; opportunity for a new start." I think we should indeed focus on that opportunity for a new beginning. I don't participate in doomsday thinking, like the unions in the paper today. We need to look at the performance within SNCB in a very intelligent way. We do not do this by weighing up whether or not we can better spend the money by abolishing points of contact. We do this by increasing the service and better serving the traveller at a better price. We need to take an example of bpost. A long time ago, the PostPoints founded it. Bpost customers were served at much larger times. That's what we have to do with the train. Are you prepared to include the establishment of train points in existing and unmanned stations in the new management agreement with SNCB? We need to install train points in abandoned stations and in stations where you do not think the counters are enough. We are in favour of train stations. Are you willing to include them in the management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u73	Mr President, last year the Board of Directors of SNCB decided to close the booths in a number of stations. These were counters in which staff had no activity for more than 60% of working time. This was not about closing the stations, on the contrary, the trains continue to stop there. I can be brief about the specific story that has appeared in the newspapers today. There are no plans to close additional points of contact by 2020. In the context of my strategic vision, I have put the customer at the centre. The train offer must of course be attractive to that customer, but it must also be the place where he or she has to wait for the train. Your idea of evolving to a train point is interesting. When presenting my strategic vision, I already launched this idea. It is certainly an option to see if train tickets can be purchased from newspapershops or local shops, whether or not at the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have indeed already referred to newspaper shops, but I would like to draw attention to the stations themselves in order to organise the train stations there. You were with me at the opening of the station in Neerpelt last year. That's turned into a fantastic train station. EUR 9.5 million has been invested in this. We must ensure that there are no desolate points in these places, but that they are cosy and dynamic points. People can not only wait there, but also buy a bread, buy a ticket, deliver a package. I think that is how we should look to the future. What happens to the station environments? What happens to the counters? The installation of train points is a very important argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u75	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u76	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Muriel Gerkens, Daniel Senesael, Maya Detiège, Georges Dallemagne, Anne Dedry. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1260/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1260/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u77	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u78	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have worked constructively in committee. The resolution was adopted unanimously. All the amendments, except for two, were adopted unanimously. This resolution is therefore widely supported, and hopefully it will continue in plenary. It is now looking forward to the European Commission's report in February 2016, as stated in request No 12 of the resolution. We can hope that we will move towards extending the directives of the European Commission and ensuring that the resolution becomes real at the level of the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that forests are an immense wealth. They play a major ecological, social and economic role. At the ecological level, forests are home to 80% of biodiversity, contributing to water cycle, climate regulation, soil protection and carbon storage. Forests are essential to curb and reduce global warming. They also contribute, in a vital way, to the development of local populations and ensure that their food and energy needs are met. They address some of their health needs. If forests are managed from a sustainable development perspective, they will play a significant economic role in developing countries. Forests are therefore a world heritage that we must protect, maintain and develop. All over the world, there is a need for forest management that respects social and ecological balances. Unfortunately, our forest heritage is threatened. Every year, 13 million hectares of forests are destroyed. Amazonia, Central Africa, the Malaysia-Indonesia area are particularly threatened by deforestation. The causes of deforestation are multiple. The illegal timber trade is one of them. In some countries, the timber trade takes place illegally and does not respect biodiversity, the environment or local populations. Illegal harvesting of timber has serious social consequences and can lead to armed conflicts, physical violence between looters and local populations. This illicit trade also leads to corruption and fosters organized crime, all of which are destabilizing factors in producing countries. Illegal timber trade takes place in countries that are also trading partners of the European Union and Belgium. Belgium is the fourth largest importer of wood in the European Union and even the second largest importer of wood from Amazonia. It is the world's largest importer of wood imported from Cameroon and the fifth largest importer of wood imported from Brazil. The volume of wood unloaded in the port of Antwerp has increased sharply over the past few years. It increased from 182,000 tons in 2010 to 280,000 tons in 2014. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important responsibility. Belgium must organise itself as optimally as possible to effectively control the origin of imported wood and, above all, its legality. In 2003, the European Commission drew up a plan to combat illegal trade. Subsequently, two European regulations were adopted in 2008 and 2013. The European Regulation entered into force on 3 March 2013 prohibits the placing on the market of timber or products derived from an illegal harvest. The 2013 Regulation also provides that importing companies selling wood on the European market must comply with the principle of "reasoned due diligence". This principle includes a set of measures and procedures aimed at minimizing the risk of placing illegal timber on the internal market. Belgium adopted the necessary measures for the full implementation of this regulation in domestic law by the Act of 25 April 2014. The SPF Environnement has thus been designated to carry out the control of imported wood, and sanctions are provided for those who do not comply with Belgian and European legislation. However, during the hearings in the Committee on Health, we found that the SPF Environnement did not have sufficient staff to control importing companies. Moreover, during the hearings last June, it became clear that the means of control were lacking, but also that the desire to combat illegal timber trade more effectively was shared by both NGOs and industry professionals and the Minister of the Environment. Following the hearings, the chairman of the Committee on Health, our excellent colleague Muriel Gerkens, took the initiative to draft a resolution which I co-signed. This text calls on the government to mobilize more staff to strengthen controls and to implement sanctions options. This is essential, ladies and gentlemen, if Belgian and European legislation are to be enforced. We also advocate the use of independent monitoring and monitoring bodies. On-the-spot checks in exporting countries may be carried out through these independent bodies. The text therefore encourages the possibility of geographical pooling of exporting countries in the organisation of controls. We call for strengthening the investigative and cooperation capacity between the competent Belgian authority and the authorities of the producing country to verify the conformity of certificates or other documents issued. Finally, the text emphasises the importance of traceability of marketed wood and information to the consumer on the origin of the products. In conclusion, I would like to commend the majority-opposition work that has been done in committee to arrive at a text acceptable to all. I hope that Minister Marghem will be able to seize this resolution to obtain more resources in the next budgetary control to effectively combat illegal timber trade. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u80	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, deforestation has an impact on the balance of the planet: loss of biodiversity, aggravation of natural disasters, reduction of water resources, impact on greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore on global warming. If we want to achieve the ambitious agreement reached in Paris under COP21, we must fight deforestation and illegal timber trade. In 2010, Europe adopted a regulation establishing obligations for operators placing timber and timber products on the market. This regulation entered into force in 2013 and must be monitored on a permanent basis to improve its effectiveness. In this spirit, if we agree with our colleague's motion for a resolution, while recalling the clear commitments of the minister, we also want to ensure that the text remains reasonable, realistic and without excess. That is why the majority wanted to make amendments to the resolution on four points which we consider essential. The first is support for SMEs, which are at the forefront of this fight. The principle of due diligence, which consists of a system of procedures to be applied by companies to reduce risk, represents a heavy administrative burden. The sector, in a very constructive way, indicated that it was ready to work together to achieve the objective, but did not agree to be penalized by procedures that would really benefit from being simplified. SMEs are asked to control the national, European, international and also the regulations of importing countries. The second point on monitoring is the encouragement to continue administrative cooperation at national level, highlighting the main teaching of hearings: the work between the protagonists works well and the exchange of information is effective, enabling the Directorate-General to fulfil his responsibilities. If these controls – more than what was mentioned in the original version of the text – have not yet given rise to sanction, it is because the Directorate-General for the Environment felt that there was no infringement. The Minister is committed to strengthening budgetary and human resources to strengthen controls. We will support her in these steps. The third axis is a will for action at European level. As part of the revision of its regulation, we want the Commission to support Belgium's proposal to achieve a simpler and faster procedure for granting approval to control organisations. Indeed, for more than three years, after the CTIB had submitted an application for recognition, its application had not yet been decided, whereas the Centre could propose a system of due diligence to Belgian operators. Finally, coordinated action at global level is needed in partnership with civil society, NGOs and third countries affected by deforestation. We must not be naive, some exporters turn to Asia which is less observant to bring illegal timber that will return to our continent without being subjected to the control and traceability introduced by the Bois regulation. In a globalized world, concerted action at the international level was needed. For example, the current efforts to replant forests in Europe, developing countries and wood-exporting countries share the same will. The path is still long, but here as in many other areas, it is not by ideology but by the pragmatism of all good wills, that we will advance this noble cause that is the fight against illegal wood. It is the pragmatism of this proposal, as amended, which the MR Group will support with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u81	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the main sponsors of this resolution, which I have willingly co-signed, because it is a major concern of our generation, namely the disappearance of primary forests, of these large carbon sinks, but above all of these large reservoirs of biodiversity. Everything we haven't done today can't be done tomorrow. This resolution welcomes the introduction of a new European regulation, but calls for additional means of control from the government. That's what matters! I call on the minister to take this request from the sponsors of the resolution very seriously, to implement means of control. Today, these means are ridiculously insufficient. This is really a major issue. We are still in the field of soft law, i.e. due diligence, reasonableness. Some elements of constraint are involved, but the rules are not fully binding on wood traceability. It will be important at some point to take the step, given the stakes involved. I had tabled an amendment. I thank those who co-signed it. Unfortunately, the majority did not follow. It was an amendment which proposed that each wood marketed in Belgium should be labelled in terms of its essence, its country of origin and whether or not it was produced in a sustainable manner. This is important for consumers. We are all attentive to what we consume, to what we buy. Where did that wood come from? Was it produced under acceptable conditions? What kind of essence is this? This information is missing. I regret that this amendment has not been accepted. Therefore, I will table a bill to continue the discussion on this matter. Today, for a whole series of goods that we buy, whether in the field of food or others, there are indications of the origin of the products. As far as wood is concerned, given the stakes involved, we could also do so without being too burdensome. I propose to continue this discussion on these elements at a later meeting. I am once again pleased that we can adopt this resolution today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u82	Mr President, the PTB will support this rather exemplary proposal. Personally, I would have placed more emphasis on the responsibility of multinationals in the plundering of forests, which would have been a somewhat different way of expressing things. Beyond the wording, this text points to weak controls. Barely one part-time worker is in charge of controlling 280,000 tonnes of wood and this is not likely to improve, given government policy. On the one hand, it further reduces the staff of the Finance FPS. We know that the role of customs is important in this area. On the other hand, in its policy statement, the government redefines the role of customs as a powerful economic and financial lever for "the competitiveness of our companies to be improved, exports to increase, our ports to continue to assert their logistical assets, etc." What I keep from this is the idea of reducing the quality and quantity of the controls so that the port companies can carry out a flourishing activity without any real constraint. I fear that the effects of this very interesting proposal will be greatly diminished because of this policy and government vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the way in which the proceedings have been conducted around this motion for a resolution reconciles me with the functioning of Parliament. We have identified a phenomenon, already denounced by many actors concerned about biodiversity and concerned about deforestation. They came to the various political groups to encourage them to act against this scourge. The Committee on Public Health and the Minister agreed to hold hearings including environmentalists, economic actors, representatives of the Environment and Customs FPS. It was at the end of these hearings that a text was drafted and tabled. I thought at that time I was going to get the co-signature of the different groups. Fortunately, some have endorsed this motion for a resolution. In this regard, I thank Mr Senesael, Mrs Detiège – who is absent today – and Mr Dallemagne. Unfortunately, the representatives of the majority groups did not co-sign it. I then wondered what was going to happen, knowing that the minister and the members of her cabinet had, on the other hand, expressed their interest in the text. Secondly, our work continued in committee in a very constructive way. The amendments tabled by the majority acknowledged our efforts and felt that they should be supported, while improving the original proposal. In this way, we were able to arrive at a common text. In this regard, I would like to thank all the members who participated in the work. Madam Minister, I would like to say that this motion for a resolution is serious. The hearings and exchanges that preceded it reflected a genuine global concern about deforestation. Colleagues have already recalled its climate and biodiversity implications. Moreover, the effects are also of an economic nature both for local populations, who are victims of these practices, and for others. I am thinking in particular of the timber sector, which suffers from unfair competition when timber is illegally exploited and imported by uncontrolled and uncontrolled logging. It is an environmental and economic tool. This resolution stresses the capacity of a State, also within the framework of European policies, to put in place the necessary tools to monitor compliance with the rules on trade and to sanction non-compliance with those measures. This resolution is addressed not only to you, but also to the government. A half to organise the control and to be the reference authority to the European Union and to all these actors throughout the world to import timber is not enough. Half-timers cannot be asked to complete the tasks expected by this reference authority. You told us during the hearings, but also during the budget discussions, that you wanted additional staff and that you had made this request to the government. In 2015, this request was not heard. I hope it will be in 2016. It would take eight more people to the Environment FPS to be able to ideally devote two full time to this work. Could you tell us, minister, whether the situation has changed with regard to this request? Has a first miracle been performed, and have sufficient human and financial resources been granted to the control authority? Another important element of this resolution is that Belgian timber importers are called upon to exercise reasonable vigilance. It's a particularly complicated concept for them. A large company has the ability to send observers to the site, to completely master all the necessary administrative procedures. It's easier for her. For an SME, it is more complicated to be able to observe what is happening in the world and in countries where wood is imported. The resolution therefore states that it is important to support the establishment and establishment of independent bodies to assist Belgian importers in complying with these due diligence obligations. These will help to establish the criteria and obtain information from the producing countries and information on the sector that has been followed. I know that you intend, at European level, to ask for a relaxation, or at least greater facilities, in order to create bodies that play the role of observers and caregivers. This is one of the amendments introduced in the resolution and we obviously supported it. It is important that Belgian actors are assisted in fulfilling their obligations. Another important element required adjustments in our discussions and in the drafting of the request to the government. This is the way in which we will consider the certification of the legality of logging by the importing country's authority. It is known that in some countries corruption is present in the government in place. In some countries, ministers themselves own forests and farmers. It is therefore difficult to rely on their certification stamp to assert that such exploitation is legal and that everything is done in compliance with the rules. These ministers are themselves economically interested and these countries are experiencing governance difficulties. To this end, it is important that Belgium complies with one of the provisions of the European Regulation. The Delegation said that, when the certification of the legality of logging in the country of origin was received, the official document given by the authority of the country was not sufficient. This element is necessary and required, but it must be accompanied by additional observations and information on how such exploitation took place. International organizations devote energy and means to observe and photograph in order to have evidence in images and concrete information on how things are going. This information must be integrated. Therefore, we can sometimes refuse timber which comes with the certificate of the government of the country of origin, but which does not meet the rules and criteria required by the European regulation. I mean, one last thing. As has been said, in some parts of the world there are sometimes greater facilities for the circulation of wood and its derivatives. We know that products go through Asia before arriving at our home and that they are therefore not identified as non-compliant. To this end, there is a request from some countries, and particularly from some Asian countries, to be able, in the conventions they are negotiating or are now negotiating country-by-country with the European Commission, to agree and prove to the European Commission that they are complying with the operating rules so that trade can take place with them. There is a demand to be able to work in groups of geographically close countries in order to pool control efforts, improvement tools and governance. I think it is important for Belgium to be able to defend this mode of cooperation within the European Union. One last word perhaps beyond the resolution. I would like to thank colleagues and the minister's office once again for the cooperative work that has been done on this text. I know, Madam Minister, that you are trying to bring together the different actors in the wood industry to work collectively. Here in Belgium, this concerns companies, the port of Antwerp, through which 400,000 tonnes of wood pass through a year, under the control of a half-time – I would add a layer to make your colleagues aware of the need to strengthen this service – NGOs, importers, people working in wood, customs and political actors. I know you'd like a charter. I don't know if you still have that idea in mind. I would just like to draw your attention to the need to preserve everyone's role in collective work. I think it is important, and it is a good idea, to bring all these actors together in order to identify difficulties, to implement the regulation, to organise controls, to sanction if necessary, to create bodies and to help identify criteria, to comply with the rules. But I do not think it is possible to ask all these actors to regulate the application of the law themselves. The law and compliance with the regulations must be enforced and enforced now because the regulations came into force in 2013. The provisions should not be adapted. NGOs must continue to play a critical and challenging role. It can also be a constructive role for the various actors. Economic actors must also be able to play their part and to express the difficulties they face. As far as policy is concerned, it must really continue to shoulder its responsibilities to monitor compliance with the rules and sanctions. I stress the need for the tool that you want to build in a collective way to respect this and not succeed in spreading responsibilities between each other. In any case, the role of the public authority that you represent and that the Environment FPS represents should not be diminished. Thank you all for supporting this work. I really think that it is in everyone's interest, both in Belgium and in the producing countries, that this resolution be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the speeches that illegal trade in timber is a subject that concerns everyone, namely the whole world. And so everyone can be an actor. From the producer to the customer, through the distributor, everyone must be responsible for their actions. Of course, I am the reasoning that we should not mix the genres. Voluntary work should not be used because it is not possible as a public authority to organize properly to carry out monitoring, certification and all regulatory operations. At the same time, if it exists, volunteer work has value. It is for this reason that I organised a round table last September, bringing together companies, associations and authority. And I would like this round table to be able to draw up a charter whereby everyone would be responsible for their own scope of action and which would provide for a cooperation agreement that would allow the information to circulate and be processed correctly with a view to making it more effective on the ground. The concept of due diligence obliges importers of wood to ensure that the timber they purchase has not been cut under conditions that harm the world: protected wood, overcuts, traffic. It is therefore they who carry out the checks. In fact, no inspection – this shows that everyone has a role and that we must not mix the roles – initiated at Greenpeace's request has given no result leading to a sanction. On the basis of these elements, it can be inferred that the exchange of information did not lead to sanctions and that, in doing so, the importers concerned are vigilant. Everyone is therefore responsible for their actions. And there are people who are responsible and who act correctly. In addition, import inspection is a guarantee of level playing field for all those who apply this principle at the foot of the letter. You always see what's wrong. But let me remind you that a lot of things are going well and that a majority of people are working well with respect for the rules and the preservation of the planet. I continue to request eight full-time equivalent inspectors. I also stressed to my Finance colleague the need for more inspectors. I shall submit this request to the next budgetary control. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u85	He heard my request. He's not the only one I asked. And as you know, I had the opportunity at this round table in September 2015 to see that everyone is willing to move forward. This resolution also shows that, in a good example of parliamentary democracy, Mrs Gerkens, at the political level, all parties have been able to contribute - it is quite rare that to underline this - to moving forward a dossier and to work in the same direction so that the issue can progress in practice, even if dialogue is not easy. Moreover, in this round table, the dialogue was not easy because, for the time being, non-governmental associations do not wish to sign this charter, considering that there will be a mixture of genres, with which they do not wish to associate. On the contrary, we want to reserve their specific place in this process. I welcome and thank all the members of the committee who are voting together today on a resolution to fight even better on the ground against illegal timber trafficking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u87	The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1381/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1381/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u92	Mr President, I refer to my written report. I would add that this project is very much in the direction of greater clarity in taxation and taxation, which is very positive. The committee approved the draft by ten votes to two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u93	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1416/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1416/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Peter Luykx, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1496/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1496/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1499/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1499/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vandenput, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1513/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1513/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u106	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1514/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1514/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vandenput, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. It was important to highlight some elements relating to this bill. Bills and assents always take a long time before we get to our house. I would also like to point out that the Protocol of Accession of the Government of the Russian Federation to the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, which was signed in France in June and July 2014, is already being submitted in the form of a bill for the approval of our Assembly. I therefore wanted to highlight the government's work in this regard. The MR Group welcomes this. Indeed, the Russian Federation's accession to the Synchrotron project has many advantages, above all from a financial point of view – which is not at all negligible – because Russia's entry into this European project provides very important additional resources. The project needed this because there was a moment of concern among researchers as to whether this ambitious programme of scientific upgrading of the instruments would be possible. Indeed, one of the most positive immediate contributions of this accession is that the launch of the second phase of the programme in 2015 is, from now on, much more firmly assured by the draft agreement that we will approve, I hope, earlier. This second phase will help rebuild the accelerator and source system, with new technologies developed by scientists and engineers. The project developed together will thus become again, in the early 2020s, the world's most efficient synchrotron. I'd like to remind you. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u110	There are many on European territory! A synchrotron is the grandson of the cyclotron. Cyclotron is the first generation of particle accelerators. It will allow much more thorough analysis and knowledge of X-rays. This has certain consequences to which I shall return. I confess, Mr Nollet, that I do not know the exact distance of each of the synchrotrons on European territory. I guess we can do some research. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, applications are not at all negligible since they include biology, chemistry, physics, materials sciences, micro and nanoelectronics, micro-optics, environmental sciences, petrochemicals, pharmacy, medicine, archaeology, etc. Many scientific disciplines are involved in this project. I come to one last very important point. This is a true European flagship in the field of scientific research. Our country's participation in this flagship opens up essential potentials for our universities, for our researchers, for high-tech industries, i.e. "developed industries". Since its inception in 1988, the Synchrotron project has already contributed more than EUR 2 billion in contracts to the commercial and industrial sectors, which directly irrigates the economies of the countries which are signatories to the project convention, Mr Van Hees. I wanted to point out in passing that these are not just multinationals. Mr Nollet, the phase foresees the creation of a more efficient source of X-rays that will reduce horizontal spreading or, in scientific terms, "emittance", from the beams of the cyclotron to a level never before reached. This includes the construction and commissioning of new magnetic elements in the storage ring, the construction of four high-tech light lines, capable of exploiting the shine and consistency of the new X-ray source and, finally, the development of an unrivalled infrastructure for X-ray source-related instrumentation. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u111	Colleagues, let me continue on my path. Otherwise, I might get lost in my development. Let me get to what I wanted to happen. The introduction of Russia into the project will allow us to move towards a greener synchrotron. But it is still a European flagship. While the scientific infrastructure requires a lot of energy to operate, the project strives to become more energy efficient. By design, the project's new accelerator will reduce the electrical consumption of the storage ring by almost one-third, saving 9 GWh per year, while increasing beam shine and X-ray duration by a minimum factor of 30. Last but not least, this will also lead to advances in structural biology, which will also help to reduce experiments on animals in the laboratory, which we have often been attentive to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? I do not think there are any other speakers. I cannot imagine that anyone would dare to ask for the floor after that speech. The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1528/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1528/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u115	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 108: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten - 758: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh - 969: Laurette Onkelinx, Özlem Özen, Eric Massin - 1139: Stéphane Crusnière, Peter Vanvelthoven, Alain Mathot, Ahmed Laaouej, Hans Bonte - 1368: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten - 1369: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Servais Verherstraeten - 1385: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u116	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will report very briefly on the work of the Justice Commission on the draft law amending criminal law and criminal proceedings and on various provisions on justice. The Committee discussed the draft law and the legislative proposals that it contains during ten meetings. We also decided in committee to hold hearings. Mrs Özen will be reporting on the hearings in due course, but I can say that they have been very positive in committee and that the content has been found to be very positive. The Minister explains his draft law in committee. He states that the bill is the second of the draft laws he announced in the Justice Plan. The Minister refers to the explanatory memorandum to the first potpourri law in the Justice Commission, which explains that the difficult budgetary context urgently requires the proposed measures. Although of course there can be no question of a purely accounting view of justice, the question arises whether we are not always obliged to do more with less and to optimise the available resources, which cannot be increased indefinitely. Our country is obliged to take the measures designed and must not wait for the comprehensive reform of the Criminal Code and of the Code of Criminal Procedure announced in the government agreement. This draft law aims to improve criminal justice in order to make the administration of justice more efficient, faster and cheaper, but without affecting the fundamental rights of those seeking justice. In fact, efficient and rapid judicial procedures are very important in order to ensure that criminal law continues to make sense; late administration of justice is never what it should be. The proposed measures, the Minister states, respond to clear and urgent needs, to which the actors of justice have often expressed. In the general discussion for the N-VA Mrs De Wit, for Green Mr Van Hecke, for the cdH Mr Brotcorne, for PS Ms Özen, for CD&V Mr Terwingen, for Ecolo Mr Cheron, for Open Vld Mrs Van Cauter and for MR Mr Goffin. We decide in committee to work in a thematic way. The most frequently discussed themes are the generalisation of the possibility of correction and the court of assists, the aggravating circumstance in the event of permanent incapacity, the delay, the limitation period, the extension of the mini-instruction, the provisional detention, the appeal, the Guilty pleasure and the extended friendly settlement. We entered a second reading in committee, after which the draft was adopted by ten votes in favour and three against. The draft law was already placed on the agenda of the plenary session of two weeks ago, after which it was sent back to the Council of State. We have just had our last committee meeting and voted on the last amendment to this draft law. Mrs Özen will report on the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u119	Mr President, as Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has pointed out, I will limit the return of my report to the proceedings and numerous hearings under the "pot-pourri II" bill. Given the scale of the work we have done, given the fact that the experts who have been interviewed have taken the trouble of carrying out titaniumic work, and this in an urgent way, I consider it important to be their voice carriers. It is also a way of paying tribute to them. You know that, in the context of the "pot-pourri I", some had expressed their discouragement. It was therefore important today to share with you the views of each other. In general, Mr. Gorlé, representative of the College of Courts, regretted the absence of a comprehensive, in-depth and quantified impact assessment on the effects of the proposed improvements. The College expressed its support for the generalization of correction which should lead to a quasi-deletion of the foundation procedure. He considered that the jury was not adapted to the increasing complexity of the cases, particularly with regard to terrorism and great banditry. In addition, the change in the procedure of assizes would put an end to the uncomfortable situation of judges, since the 2009 reform requiring the reasons for the verdicts. As regards the "guilty plea", the judges of the seat are more mixed since they seem to be in conflict with their judicial culture. Moreover, a reduction in the workload of the courts might be illusory in view of the obligations incumbent on the trial judge. On the other hand, Mr. De Valkeneer, representative of the College of Public Prosecutions, is in favour of prior recognition of guilt. It believes that this will make it easier for the accused to accept the sanctions, speed up proceedings and free the correctional courts. The Committee regrets, however, that the draft text allows only very limited use of this mechanism at the level of appeal. This view is shared by the representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the new appeal rules, the College fully supports the objective of these amendments, which is obviously to reduce the number of appeals, as you wish, Minister. He wondered, however, about the need for motivation. Will she be met if we merely challenge guilt or innocence? A grievance may be specific without reasons. The College fully agrees with this change in the provision of more expertise to prosecutors in the processing of cases. With regard to the extension of the mini-investigation to searches, Mr Delmulle, President of the same College, was very positive about the proposed legislative amendment. He added that it is not desirable to provide for an appeal to the Indictments Chamber for access to the file. As far as the Court of Assizes was concerned, he considered that it involved a very cumbersome procedure. For example, if a French-speaking case is referred to the Brussels Assize Court today, the trial cannot be scheduled until June 2017. With regard to this generalization of correction, the Collègue des Prosecuteurs Générale will set out in a circular the criteria on the basis of which the Public Prosecutor's Office may request referral or not to the Court of Assizes. The Association of Investigative Judges drew members' attention to the importance of the search. It fears a trivialisation of the use of search when, she recalls, it is a serious violation of citizens' right to privacy. In this respect, the Association recalls that there is no room for light decisions. It highlights the great difference between an investigating judge who is seized of a case from the outset, and an investigating judge who is suddenly seized of a case which has been before the Public Prosecutor's Office for some time. When the prosecutor's office has assumed the entire pre-trial phase, the investigating judge will find himself in a particularly embarrassing situation. Either he must first become familiar with the case file and cannot take any immediate decision, or he simply responds to each request of the prosecution in a servile manner. In general, the Association of Investigative Judges is opposed to pursuing the obvious role of investigating judges. The latter are concerned about this development, which leads to an expansion of mini-education. Mr. Claise, an investigating judge, also expressed concern at this emerging development. He also stressed the particularly traumatic impact of a search. In his view, this mini-education reform cannot be justified for budgetary reasons, nor can it be dictated by any imperative of efficiency. On the other hand, he welcomed the introduction of the admission of guilt and believed that the possibility of negotiations should be broadened to include the prosecution. However, he said that he was struck by the violation of the rights of defence and human rights of the decision to extend the time limit for pre-trial detention to two months. In this regard, he recalls the deplorable state of the detention centres. As for Mr Hartoch, adviser to the Brussels Court of Appeal, he considered that several of the proposals in this "pot-pourri II" project were extremely worrying. Correctable crimes are already almost systematically referred to the correctional court. With this project, he believes that the intrinsic link between mitigating circumstances and the rate of punishment is lost. Moreover, it not only exempts the accused from his constitutional right to be judged by a popular jury, but also by the civil party. In his view, the application of mitigating circumstances without a real reduction of the sentence is not only completely illogical, but will also lead to completely unfair situations. It recalls that the sentences of imprisonment of more than 30 years are also absolutely unproductive in all cases, both in terms of the protection of society and in terms of the rehabilitation and reintegration of the prisoner. One day he will be forced to return to human society. For Karin Gérard, President of the Assize Court and President of the Brussels Court of Appeal, the exceptional nature of certain assize trials would also lead to extremely lengthy debates in a correctional court. It considers that the large number of jurors, twelve, as well as the three judges of the Court, guarantee a well-considered decision, which is also reasoned. She welcomed the proposal to involve the three professional judges in the deliberations on the guilt or innocence of the accused. For her, lawyers are no more than others trained to seek the truth. The law, and in particular criminal law, must be understood by everyone. It recalls that the Assize Court makes the link between the citizen and justice. With regard to the lengthening of sentences, Mr Gorlé believes that the state of disrepair in our prisons certainly cannot be used as an argument to justify a reduction in sentences. On the other hand, the magistrates of the seat are uncomfortable with the intention of abolishing the possibility of seeking cassation. This possibility was precisely provided for in order to avoid endangering the procedure at the end of the journey. Mr. De Valkeneer is convinced that the transfer of files to the correctional courts will generate savings ranging from €7 million to €10 million per year. In general, he explained that the penal system was very severe in Belgium. The length of sentences and the number of convictions continues to increase. On the other hand, he recalls that the certainty of being punished for an offence is very weak in our country. It is shown, however, that it is not the severity of the sanction that is dissuasive but the certainty of being punished. With regard to prosecutors, the Committee considers that their independence is not very different from that of prosecutors. And with respect to the ground of the grievance in the degree of appeal, he recalls that a defence strategy can evolve over time. Mr Delmulle considered that, with regard to the mini-investigation, the Public Prosecutor's Office was carrying out its investigation both on a charge and on a discharge. Mr. Jean-Louis Doyen, President of the Association of Investigative Judges, recalled that it was useful for persons in pre-trial detention to appear every month at the hearing of the Chamber of Council because in this way a serene debate could take place with all the persons concerned. The Association is therefore not in favour of a systematic extension of this deadline to two months for non-correctable crimes. It is true that, in this case, the investigating judge will indeed be able to rule on a possible release in the meantime. The investigating judge already has this possibility, but only makes exceptional use of it, because it is a risk to be taken. Mr. Van Linthout, president of the Association of Investigative Judges, acknowledges that prosecutors are independent, but stresses that there remains a hierarchical link with the minister. Mr Hartoch, a member of the Brussels Court of Appeal, considered that the sentences provided for at forty years were particularly long and not justified, since reintegration was no longer possible after that period. Mr. Paul Martens, President Emeritus of the Constitutional Court, considers that the state of progress of a society and civilization is measured by the humanity of its penal system. He recalls that it was progress that gave him a function of re-integration of the offender into society. The prison then appeared as a bad response to delinquency, as it did not prevent recidivism. Moreover, due to disastrous promiscuity, it would even favour organized crime and, today, radicalisation. The prison would therefore prove to be criminogenic. Now, however, the prison population is going to increase, while conditions of detention are worsening. Mr Martens recalled the Belgian State's numerous convictions in Strasbourg for inhuman and degrading treatment. He pleads for an individualized approach to the sentence, which only the judge – because he hears the perpetrator and the victim – can appreciate best. It is best placed to decide on the most appropriate sentence and to assess on a case-by-case basis whether alternative measures made available to it could not avoid the negative effects of incarceration. He adds that today we are witnessing a regression. He cites the extension of sentences, restrictions on the granting of alternative measures, in particular, to convicted persons who are illegally staying – measures which he considers harmful. It recalls article 191 of the Constitution and considers that too frequent legislative changes on the same topics raise problems of transitional measures and will give rise to appeals to the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court. Ms. Levecque, for her part, recalled that judging was a difficult profession, which required training and that the jurisdiction of seats was the door to approximations. It is very expensive to assign assessors who do not have time to prepare the files. She felt that it would be necessary to move towards a straightening. She was also opposed to the fact that the appeal would be asked for reasons and felt that it was a reduction in the right of some defendants. She also wondered who would carry out the work of prosecutors when they had to carry out the work of prosecutors. Mr. Moulart said that there was too little difference in the penalties for the correction of crimes that were punishable from 20 to 30 years. The reduction of the sentence is so insensitive that it may be considered discriminatory. The Committee notes that the more severe the punishment of the crime of recidivism, the less severe the specific punishment for recidivism will be. Mr. Boyen believes that the time when the outcome of a trial depended solely on witnesses and confessions is over. At present, technical findings made by experts contribute much more to the outcome of a trial. After a period of time x, a witness must repeat his or her testimony. In the meantime, he forgot things and interpreted them differently. He also calculated that the price of an assize procedure was five times higher than an examination by professional judges. According to him, it is professional judges that are very expensive and not a popular jury. He added that the system of early release for persons sentenced to sentences of up to three years is in crisis in Belgium and recalls that any detention has harmful effects and that, in any case, it is necessary to be always aware of these perverse effects. Mr. Louveaux, representative of the Association of Magistrates' Trade Unions, said that there was a need to avoid the overbidding of sentences and that, in any event, more general consideration should be given to the system of penalties. With regard to prosecutors, he strongly opposed the assignment of all the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecutors. He considers that the independence of prosecutors is in no way guaranteed. In relation to the extension of the mini-investigation to the search, the Association Syndicale des Magistrats considers that it is illusory to believe that the problems of directing criminal investigations will be solved by moving the responsibilities to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This would misrepresent the serious difficulties associated with the overload of the public prosecutor's offices. The association considers that it is the abolition of the investigating judge that is emerging, that it is not unconditionally opposed to the abolition of the institution of the investigating judge, but this could only be conceived in a fundamental and more general reform of the criminal procedure. As far as the court of assizes is concerned, the Association Syndicale des Magistrats considers that this is the choice of half measure. She did not approve of it because, for her, an echevinal composition could have been drawn up. Instead, the most serious cases will be tried by ordinary correctional chambers, which is not acceptable. As for the guilty plea procedure, she supported the view that an accepted sentence was more likely to achieve its objectives than a sentence that was imposed. More generally, the association considers that the project is intended to restrict or in any case eliminate access to certain legal remedies, to which it is formally opposed in the name of the priority which must be given to the rights of the defence and to the fair trial, in particular with regard to the time limits for concluding and the removal of late submissions. It also opposes the restriction on the right to object, which would penalize the weakest, and warns against the risk of a trial on the merits being added, that of examining the reasons for the default. With regard to the spacing of the periodic review of pre-trial detention, she was firmly opposed to it. Mr. Minister, you said it was very hard to hear what Mr. Paul Martens had said when he said that there was a setback in civilization. However, if people without a residence permit are released temporarily, the minister will be responsible for the consequences. So how should these interests be reconciled in such cases? That was the question that had been asked. The OVB (Orde van Vlaamse Balies) supported the possibility of correcting all crimes, but acknowledged that witnesses' hearings often revealed new elements. However, many pleas in favour of maintaining the sitting procedure are committed to hearing rather than maintaining a popular jury. He was not opposed to the plea-council procedure and noted that there was a shift of power in favour of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Committee believes that this should be done in a much more comprehensive review of the criminal procedure as well. Colleagues, I know that my presentation is quite technical. I'll ask you a few more minutes of attention. I would like to share with you what has been said, whether these are arguments that I defend or not. It is important to have an overview of the hearings that took place in committee. Mr Henry, representing lawyers.be, also regretted that the reform was presented in an emergency without an overall vision. It regrets that the bill reduces the power of individualization of the sentence. For lawyers.be, many provisions of the bill will lead to an increase in the length of sentences. The Committee is of the view that the bill disrupts the balance of criminal proceedings, reducing the rights of private parties to the benefit of the prosecution. It also notes that no rules are laid down on the choice of crimes that will be corrected or corrected and those that will not. "We'll be in the most complete arbitrariness," he says. "The Constitutional Court may quickly address this imbalance problem." In his view, one problem was the loss of confidence in the judge, who would no longer be able to impose certain alternative sentences to the deprivation of liberty. "These penalties," he says, "are nevertheless essential for the future of our criminal law. They are constructive and conducive to social reintegration." The website avocats.be has in any case firmly insurgency against bimonthly and no longer monthly appearance, and considers that the limitation of the right to lodge an appeal in cassation amounts to the removal of an essential gendarme in relation to respect for the reasons of the decisions and in particular in view of reasonable time or serious evidence of guilt. According to lawyers.be, there is therefore no more monitoring of compliance with the law and this has a double perverse effect: the increase and prolongation of preventive detentions and the execution of sentences, with the associated economic cost. With regard to the new rules on the communication of conclusions, the High Council of Justice calls for a flexible system to be maintained. He supported measures to limit the level of appeal debate to the grievances raised. It also considers it desirable that the Court of Cassation should retain control over decisions by which the indictments division conducts a review of the regularity of the proceedings. Mr. Dauchot, member of the Supreme Council of Justice, also stressed the hearings. For him, this is an added value, which the jury represents in any case in a sitting court. For him, he is the best ambassador of criminal justice. He pointed out that the most costly part of criminal proceedings was DNA expertise and telephone and translation costs. This applies to all procedures and not only procedures before the sittings. According to Mr Dauchot, if we want to give the orality of the proceedings the time they deserve, the proceedings before the correctional courts will necessarily be extended. According to Mr. Deswaef, President of the Human Rights League, the project does not seem to be consistent with the desire to reduce the prison population. Ms. Guillain, also representative of the League of Human Rights, said that the draft contained specific but significant measures, since it contained 226 articles, but without waiting for the conclusions of the reform committees. So, according to her, the pot-pourri II project is precipitated and inconsistent. She stressed the indigence of the impact assessment of the bill and noted that the bill avoided any political debate on the reform of the court assizes. However, its suppression deserves a thorough democratic debate rather than a quasi-disappearance in catini, which does not say its name, she believes. She explained that the bill hardened the criminal response. By way of comparison, she explained that the maximum term of imprisonment on time, provided for in the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court for crimes under international law, was thirty years. Therefore, the significant increase in sentences, coupled with the reduction in the possibility of parole and the control of pre-trial detention, and the abolition of sentences for those convicted who are not allowed to stay in Belgium to be granted any form of execution of the sentence, can only favour the overcrowding that the government intends to curb. She added that several studies had demonstrated the catastrophic effects of long-term detention, particularly in terms of social reintegration. The Human Rights League is concerned about the extension of the mini-investigation to the search. In her view, a measure as binding as it is an attack on individual freedoms can only be part of an investigation. The League deplores the numerous violations of the guarantees of pre-trial detention, which must remain an exceptional measure. She adds that there are three ways to reduce overcrowding: at the entrance, during detention and at the exit. However, this bill is not working on any of these issues. According to Mr Frydman, President of the Centre for the Philosophy of Law at the ULB, this project is, in any case, unconstitutional and contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Committee recalls that the ordinary law implements the provisions of the Constitution and specifies the procedures for its implementation. She can't empty the substance of it. The correction of all crimes necessarily requires the prior revision of the Constitution and, in particular, of its article 150. For Mr. Frydman, the bill is therefore unconstitutional because it intends to amend the Constitution by law. In other words, he rapes her. It also regrets that the government does not provide any figures, if not an isolated example, of the current cost of the assize court or the amount of savings that will be realized. The impact assessment is therefore indigent in this respect. Mr. Verbruggen, professor at KUL, pointed out that the system under discussion could give rise in practice to heavier penalties, which did not correspond to the spirit of the principle of mitigating circumstances. In any event, he had no objection in principle to the fact that the legislator provided for a system of correction, but said that that could not have the effect that the sentences imposed by the correctional court would be heavier than those imposed by the assize court in a similar case. It considers that it is primarily for the legislator to determine which judge is competent for the judgement of certain categories. With regard to the mini-investigation, he considered that the investigating judge could only take up a case when the act had actually been carried out and not when it had been refused. Finally, Mrs De Wit felt that, while it was positive, widespread correction posed a problem in combination with an increase in the penalty, since the right to renounce a popular jury implied a reduction in the penalty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u120	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing potpourri II, a name that has already become commonplace in justice. Next week we will start potpourri III, there will also be a potpourri IV. Maybe there'll be a potpourri V. This potpourri is about criminal law and criminal procedure and is intended, pending the promised major reform, to make some quick wins, to make some repairs and to solve urgent problems. There will be small, punctual interventions to modernise the system. There will be better services, lower work costs, lower costs. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, it is a book full of quick wins, more than 225 articles. In summary, Minister, you want things to be faster, more efficient and also cheaper. The treatment of this potpourri II has gone rather quickly, and that does not necessarily have to be bad, ladies and gentlemen. Something's moving at the Justice Department again. In the meantime, you know that our group is quite in favour of an occasional speedier justice system. It has to be said, actually potpourri II contains more than a few quick interventions. There are also larger beacons being moved and here and there even a preliminaries on the thorough reform. Some of the reforms and measures we are voting on today will have a profound impact on the relationship between the different actors in the criminal proceedings. Those are not my words, those are the words of the Council of State. I am thinking, for example, of the mini-instruction and the extended role of the public prosecutor. As you know, I have already said a few times that there is a certain amount of concern among our group because fundamental choices are being made even before the major reform is launched. The direction is indicated, we are already a little ahead, but there is a risk that coherence may be lost. Law is hard enough as it is. This may be different for you as a professor, Minister, but I still believe that the law should be as simple and coherent as possible. I believe that this also applies to the users and the clients of the Justice Department. It is precisely for this reason, Minister, that our group has a very clear and very explicit request, namely to make a proper evaluation of this legislation after some time, and to adjust it where it is necessary. We should not be too proud not to want to do that. We must have the courage to evaluate and adapt this law. We need to keep the line open with all the actors in the field, because they will have to put this legislation into practice. Their input will be essential, because they have to carry it out. They have already received a lot of work, such as the judicial landscape and potpourri I. Now potpourri II is coming. So open communication will be very important. The people on the ground must tell us where to change the legislation. That is why this evaluation is so important. You said in the debates that you want to do so. That is what we are counting on. We are also counting on the great reform. In the meantime, the working groups have been set up. I hope that the directives will follow quickly. In this way, the Justice Department can enter the 21st century. I hope that the elected Members of this House will be able to cooperate actively and not merely serve as a simple voter. We have just received a brief reading from the hearings. A lot of interesting and meaningful things have been said. A lot of people have taken the time to study legal texts and to give their views on them. I would like to thank everyone involved for that. Thanks to these hearings, some of the comments made by these specialists were included in the preliminary draft. For some, that won't be enough. In any case, steps have been taken. In concrete terms, ten points are at the heart of our group. We also want to evaluate these elements afterwards. Firstly, the correction of crimes. This is not a reform of assists. It is mainly the removal of cases in assists by general correction. Assists affect people, even though it only affects 1% of all cases. One is for or against. For advocates it is almost the most beautiful procedure there is because of its oral nature. That's where the added value comes in. The investigation will be resumed at the hearing. It is also one of the few processes in which citizens can be so closely involved in justice. However, even those who are in favour must realise that assist cases require a lot of budget, a lot of manpower, a lot of time and a lot of energy. We are thinking of the jury, the witnesses, the appeals and the day-long procedure. The Chairman of the Ghent Appeals Court has calculated the amount and has determined that an assist case costs five times more than an ordinary correctional procedure. The fact that the assistance procedure is being dealt with by means of the correction procedure is certainly a good thing in itself and in that respect. Minister, I am sure you will do the same later, but I would like to clear up a misunderstanding right away. The assistance procedure shall not be abolished. The procedure will continue. There will still be cases to go to the courts of assists. However, this has some consequences. Clear guidelines are needed to ensure that no distinction is made between the districts on the type of cases forwarded to the assisted courts. If the assistance procedure is maintained for specific cases, the procedure should be worked on and it should be examined whether certain aspects cannot be made more modern and efficient. It is also necessary to examine how some efficiency gains can still be made, without too hard on the substance of the procedure itself. Minister, a great deal of red tape can still be removed. Our party has tabled a bill to that effect. The assistive procedure has many drawbacks, but it has one great added value, which I have just mentioned. That's the thorough handling at the hearing, with witnesses being interrogated during the trial. Let it be just that element that does not have a correct procedure today. Correct things don't have the tradition of summoning witnesses. However, the cases that we now intend to correct will be transferred to that correcting procedure and dealt with before the proper court. Minister, we must therefore trust that the courts of correction will organise themselves in such a way as to compensate for that difference. They must ensure that they deal thoroughly with the serious facts now before their seat, that they take their time and that these matters do not end up between theft cases, but are effectively dealt with at a hearing in which the case can be considered. I'm talking about some kind of criminal correctional room. We must trust that they will hear a number of relevant witnesses in the investigation. I would ask you, Minister, to really follow that aspect. How will treatment work in practice? Will the correctional court do that thorough treatment effectively? How will she do that? After all, if practical evidence shows that this treatment is not working or is not working properly enough, which means that these specific issues cannot be given the attention they deserve, after all, these are very serious facts, and we must take legislative action. In this respect, therefore, an evaluation will be very important. Mr President, I have a further concern about this aspect, particularly with regard to the immediate entry into force of the regulation in pending cases. You know that the question has already been asked whether this could lead to problems. I would ask you to confirm that you have checked this and that there can be no problems so that we do not have to worry about it or the people on the ground. Well, then, I guess the concern is over. That was my first point. My second point concerns the adjustment of limitation periods, and I can be brief on this. We don't adapt much, but a little bit. One of the recommendations that was unanimously adopted in the Special Committee on Sexual Abuse during the previous legislature, we are now turning into legislation. Our group had tabled a proposal and I am quite pleased that you have included it in your potpourri legislation. It concerns the limitation period for sexual offences in the case of minor victims in the case of unity of intent, for which we are de facto introducing an extension. I am particularly pleased that, once this legislation has been adopted, this can now be implemented. Now I come to my third point, the mini-instruction. This is being extended, although that was a point of discussion, and is now also possible for a search. That means the D.A.'s office will have more options. For one piece, there is a preliminaries, because the relationship between the actors shifts somewhat. We are thinking about the role of the investigating judge in the entire criminal proceedings and we are dealing with this point a little bit. That's not really a quick win, but it's not insignificant. For us, it is particularly important that it has at present been limited to the search and that the telephone tap was not included in it, just because that aspect deserves a very thorough discussion and debate and actually belongs in the greater reform of justice. During the discussion in committee, I proposed an exchange of views on the role of the investigating judge, so that we can get much better prepared when we tackle that aspect. It will certainly help us to make the right choices. I therefore repeat my question in this regard. My fourth point is quite topical. It's about forgetting administrative formalities. A mistake happened quickly, of course. With the current legislation, we adapt the nullities to the telephone tap, because nullity will lapse if an administrative formality is forgotten. As a lawyer one may be able to raise objections about this, and I understand that, but as a legislator, a government, a coalition party or a politician one can no longer be explained that a mistake in administrative formalities gives rise to the release of all kinds of gangs. In my view, the inclusion of this amendment in this legislation is a very good thing, even if I understand the legal objections. Fifth, custody. The check on remand is now done after five days and then every other month. For serious crimes, that's every three months. You now want to switch to a system of five days, one month, one month and then every two months, and without distinction between the different crimes. So that is simpler and less likely to be wrong, which is a good thing. I admit that we were initially concerned about extending the deadline, because it is finally a deprivation of liberty. Our group is therefore pleased that you have taken up the question of us and of the counters, to postpone this arrangement and its entry into force for some time, so that we can better prepare ourselves on the ground and so that other aspects can be addressed. This will also be an element which will have to be evaluated and, where necessary, adjusted once it has entered into force. Sixth, the parole attorneys. Through this legislation, the prosecutors will now also be able to sit in court. You have also heard that there have been some objections on the subject. After all, they're parole lawyers, not magistrates. Previously, they were mainly supportive and now they come into the picture more prominently. We are pleased that this is limited today to those legally appointed because there is another screening, but we are aware that an evaluation will be required in the long term. Why, in our view, will an evaluation be needed? Because soon people will work much more with the order to pay and there may be so many fewer cases coming to the police court. Perhaps it would be more interesting to re-enlist the public prosecutors because they can make themselves more useful there than at a hearing. So the last word has not yet been said on this subject. Seventhly, the Guilty Fun. That'll sneak the Anglo-Saxon system into our legal system. Whoever pleads guilty can reach an agreement on the punishment. We do believe in that because, if there is no dispute, a long, unnecessary procedure can be avoided in this way. As mentioned earlier, comments are made on this point. What if there were intimidation or if the person concerned were put under pressure and would confess quickly not to be punished too heavily? I understand those comments, but fortunately the right of judicial review will still guarantee the proportionality of the punishment. As far as the right of control is concerned, there is a downside when the chord, or the guildy pleasure, is not homologized. After all, we must send it back to court. The bourgeois party, the victim, is involved in the whole story and knows about the confession and the agreement. Even if the file is emptied, it cannot be erased. We will therefore have to consider how this will be done in practice. We will have to ensure that there are sufficient incentives for a suspect to make a guilty plea and to plead guilty when he knows that the judge can refuse the proposal. The success or failure of this point depends very much on the way in which the judges will deal with it and the way in which they will approach it. You can guess, Minister, we will have to evaluate this measure later. Eighthly, everyone is always associated with the extended friendly settlement, which is popularly referred to as the payoff law, with diamondaires who buy a verdict, but the extended friendly settlement goes much further and is also applied in many more cases. For our group, it has always been problematic in the previous legislature, we have often cited this fact that a settlement could be reached in the process until the very last moment. If one could afford a lawyer long enough, then one could really stretch the trial and gamble on a statute of limitations, so that one could get rid of it. If they did not succeed, they could still settle until the very last moment, at cassation. This is now being restricted. Now a settlement is only possible until the judgment at first instance. That is a very important and good evolution. We are very pleased that this amendment has been incorporated into the draft law, because it can prevent gambling immediately. In this way, one of the arguments against the buy-back law, namely that it would be class justice, is also refuted for a large part. There is much greater equality between the smaller and larger criminal. Ninth, as far as the Committee I is concerned, the potpourriwet II provides for an exchange of information between the CFI, the Security of the State, the ADIV and the OCAD, in the context of the fight against terrorism, its financing and related money laundering operations. We will have to consider to what extent the monitoring of the Committee I can proceed smoothly, but for us it is particularly important that today I would like to stress that Article 225, as it stands today, deals only with the exchange of information on terrorism, its financing and the money laundering involved, and that it does not go beyond that. The ADIV and State Security have many more tasks and powers, such as espionage or extremism, but information on this is not included in the information exchange scheme. Article 225 does not go that far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u121	Mrs De Wit, I am listening very carefully to that point. I'm sure you won't be surprised. I share your opinion on the importance of the article to which you refer. The only thing I would like to point out is that we have tabled an amendment to go one step further. We want international information exchange not only in connection with the fight against fraud, but also in connection with the financing of terrorist organisations. That is the scope of our amendment. I would urge you to reconsider its approval. After all, I hear the same argument from the government in response to the threat of terror, of which we are all the victims. Our amendment responds to the concern that the international financial flows of terrorist organisations should also be dealt with. That is the scope of Amendment No 2. 119. I think it would be a missed opportunity if, given the urgent need to tackle the beast, we did not take advantage of the current legislation to extend the scope to cover the financing of international terrorist organisations. That is why I am interrupting you, Mrs De Wit, to ask whether it is really not possible to approve the amendment. I know it comes from the opposition, but we are on the same page here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u122	Mr Bonte, I understand your point, which you have also made in committee. If I am not mistaken, however, I do not have it with me, your amendment would like to amend something that has just been dealt with and approved in the Finance Committee a week earlier. There is little point in immediately changing something that is being discussed in the Finance Committee in the Justice Committee. However, it is certainly a proposal that can be taken into account in the Finance Committee, so that the whole is certainly consistent. After all, one has to be careful to change stripes and commas everywhere in systems on different fronts. It is important for the actors involved to maintain an overview of the big picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u123	Mrs De Wit, it is of course the Chamber of Representatives in plenary that makes the laws, not the Finance Committee or the Justice Committee. They do the preparatory work. We do want to strengthen very recent legislation. That has nothing to do with creating legal uncertainty among those who have to enforce the law. The legislation is so recent that we are indeed making it more accurate, especially in the light of the fight against the international financial flows of terrorism. So I do not see your point, Mrs De Wit. A few weeks ago, we passed the law here. The amendment is simply an adjustment which also meets the desire of the majority and opposition to be able to use that important instrument. You have explained it correctly, it is a matter of allowing the exchange of information to be used in the fight against internationally organised terrorist groups. So I don't see your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u124	At least your call has been heard, Mr Bonte. Mr Minister, my final point concerns the way in which penalties are implemented. This is also the case in potpourri II, with electronic supervision and so on. I can make the following comment. We held hearings in the Committee on Justice on a proposal from Mr Brotcorne on appeal against decisions of the criminal court. In fact, something very important has come out of that, namely that more tailor-made work should be possible. You're actually already adapting it to this potpourri. When there is a review of criminal enforcement procedures, the criminal execution judge now has a much wider range of possibilities. He can choose from electronic monitoring or other measures and decide on different aspects that lie ahead. However, he is still unable to do so today from the start of a dossier. This means that a person who is now in prison can apply for an out-of-the-room check-out while another procedure is under way for his half-freedom or for the application for electronic check-up. So there are different procedures running side by side. I believe that it would be much more efficient to do what is now included in potpourri II, which can be done in a subsequent phase, I know that you still have a potpourri plant around the execution of the sentence from the very beginning. One can then work much more tailor-made from the outset. In fact, it is much better to work in a process of economics because a criminal court does not have four files for one and the same inmate, for whom everything can actually be contained in one file. Perhaps that can be looked at in one session and one can proceed step by step. I believe that we will be able to work on that further. I would like to make one final comment on the way in which penalties are implemented, which is very important for our group. This is important not only for our group, but also for someone who was heard during the hearings. The point is that there is no penitentiary leave and no electronic surveillance for the convicted illegal without the right of residence. The latter is, of course, important in this respect. If one were to claim that this is discrimination, I would very much like to refer to the hearing that has been held. Mrs Özen, this is page 226. After all, you did not quote that part just now. It concerns, in particular, Judge Pieters, who has many years of experience in the criminal court, who has made it quite clear that when looking at a mode of execution, it is about electronic supervision or penitentiary leave, which always happens with a view to the parole of the person concerned. So that means work, a permanent address, living. That is the essence of that modality, that is the essence of it. That is not possible for a person without a right of residence. That is not something that can be applied to them. Judge Pieters mentioned that ten years ago. During the hearings, he said once again that it is a good thing today, especially in the field, that this should be clarified and that the person without the right of residence should be excluded from that modality. Mr Minister, I come to my conclusion. Potpourri II states that an illegal convict can only be eligible for early release if he returns. In this context, I would like to present some figures. We've got about 11 500 prisoners. Of these there are 5 381 strangers, 3 361 of whom are illegal in this country. That's a lot. You've always worked well with Secretary of State Francken for this. The number of expulsions of illegal detainees has more than doubled. In 2015, 1 437 were returned in total or an increase of as much as 130 % compared to 2014. It's been different once. Under Secretary of State Wathelet prisoners were regularized, now they are repatriated. This is a matter of priorities, but it is also good to reduce and reduce the overpopulation in prisons. Finally, Minister, potpourri II has taken a big step. The jump will have to follow now. The fundamental reform is coming and we will support it. I would like to highlight these ten points today, because we are counting on you to evaluate and correct the points mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u125	Mr President, Minister, I do not hide from you that it is with a sense of disappointment that I share with you my fear and that of my group about this poetically called pot-pourri II project. We know that our penal system is far from perfect. He needs a lift. For the PS group too, justice cannot remain a frozen institution. It must dare to question itself, dare evolutions to be in line with the demands of a society that has changed so much and is constantly evolving. In fact, my party has supported a few articles that propose improvements. However, to carry out this major project, it is essential to have an overall vision and to have some coherence. Now that's where the bastard hurts! Today, we are facing two parallel initiatives. On the one hand, the Minister has begun well as he has appointed a commission of experts to reflect on the reform and modernization of our penal system. As we support this desire to involve legal professionals, on the other hand, you are urgently submitting the pot-pourri II project, which is under consideration today. Mr Minister, the paradox is that you preferred to go head down, without waiting for the results of the work of this commission that you yourself set up. However, it is now apparent that certain potpourri II measures are likely to be in complete contradiction with the conclusions of this Reform Committee. That's what we call putting the plow before the ox. It is therefore regrettable that all these reforms have been dealt with in an urgent and hasty manner. I believe that proper parliamentary work requires time for reflection and in-depth debate, which has been recalled on several occasions, even by some members of the majority. Unfortunately, I see only a sluggish reform, without any vision, without any thought that is consistent in the long term and, moreover, will have an impact on the fundamental rights of our citizens and of those who are litigants. Why this haste? Why this sloppy reform? Simply to implement the budget cuts decided by this government as quickly as possible. The only purpose of this reform, since you have not managed to immunize your budget, the only real objective is to save money. Between the beautiful intentions you announced to us in the Justice Plan, at the time of the institution of this government, and those that are taken, especially in this pot-pourri II, you give me the impression of being an accounting minister. You're rationalizing or even minimizing. And even if it is not critical in itself - I admit that sometimes savings must be made - it cannot justify everything and, above all, not a reduction in the rights of citizens. Unfortunately, in addition to generating costs, certain measures of this potpourri II are simply unacceptable in the light of the democratic principles that underpin our society. Ladies and gentlemen, the penal system of a state is, in some respects, a just but severe reflection of its degree of civilization. Particularly in this case, progress is neither natural nor obvious, and the 200 or so articles of this potpourri raise many fundamental issues, including the meaning of punishment and its individualization, the independence of the judiciary, the right to be tried by its peers, the fair trial, the presumption of innocence, the rule of law, the equality of citizens before the law, the protection of privacy and even the right to lead a family life. From the outset, from the first articles, the draft makes a choice as critical as it is symbolic because the government has decided to virtually abolish the court of assizes, this high place of participatory justice, one of the last places where the citizen is directly involved in the exercise of justice; a place where he can control how justice is done and how it is actually exercised. This, of course, helps to build the confidence that citizens can have in the institution. Here, we cut off this link with the judiciary from a lack of recognition and trust. On the one hand, the court of assizes is detricted, it is largely emptied of its substance and, on the other hand, it is granted, these heavy powers of sanction are transferred to the correctional courts. All this, again, with one and only argument that comes back in a loop: that of saving money. But the argument of a court of assizes that would be too expensive is not unanimous since over the course of the hearings the figures have varied and could never be objected to, one often asserting the opposite of the other. Then the trials would be too long. However, most sitting sessions last less than 10 days. The most frequent durations are between four and eight days. A small number of these trials last longer, ranging from 30 to 40 days. According to Ms. Gérard, these trials would be the exception. She pointed out that some trials took ten times more time in correctional than in sitting. She cites the Aquino case concerning a vast drug trafficking in Flanders which would have lasted ten times longer before a correctional court than if it had been pleaded before the assizes. Be careful, not all of these elements mean that the PS group, as well as the rest of the opposition, is closed to discussion about the modernization of the assize court. The need for reform is shared by all, Minister. But don't throw the baby away with the bath water. This clarification is very important because our democratic system requires a large parliamentary majority to agree on the basis. Hence the importance of the institution to the legislator. However, this is very important since article 150 of our Constitution creates a fundamental political right for the citizen. The government and the majority are pretending to forget...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u126	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u127	They do it very well! I fully agree with you, Mr. Cheron. They do have a lot of talent! They may seem to forget that as far as criminal matters are concerned, the People's Jury is enshrined in our Constitution and that any law cannot "empty" the article of the Constitution within its scope. This is a principle of law which is very simple, but fundamental, namely the law of the hierarchy of norms. This principle taught in the first year of law is unfortunately circumvented, flouted. I remember that in the first application, one of the first principles that we were taught is respect for the hierarchy of standards. Unfortunately, this principle is not respected. It is no longer a secret for anyone, the generalization of the correction of crimes will, in fact, eliminate the court of assizes. However, the Constitution requires not only that the most serious crimes be submitted to a popular jury, but also that "no one may be distracted, against his will, from the judge appointed to him by law" (Article 13). In other words, the legislator cannot exempt itself from determining the most serious crimes. In this case, the right to a fair trial is a principle which is also guaranteed by article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The obligation to conduct a wide-ranging debate to amend this famous Article 150 is therefore not just a superfluous administrative formality, as the majority is trying to make us believe. It is a safeguard that protects our fundamental rights. Unfortunately, the government prematurely closed the discussion on the assize court, no doubt because it feared that a two-thirds majority would not be gathered to complete the debate. On the one hand, unblock the court of assizes and empty it of its substance and, on the other hand, impose sentences of up to 40 years' imprisonment, that is, ten years more than today. We would move from a popular jury of twelve people and three magistrates to a correctional court with sentences ranging from 30 to 40 years, sometimes with only one magistrate: thank you, Mr Brotcorne! I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the maximum penalty of imprisonment provided for by the International Criminal Court for war crimes and genocide is 30 years. At home in Belgium, a correctional court can impose sentences that go beyond, and up to 40 years, with, sometimes, a single judge. This increase in the sentencing rate is obviously a serious decline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u128	We must not say untruths; I cannot stand them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u129	But we don't know what we're going to, sir. We didn't have the debate. We don't know if we're gonna have a speech. Collegiateness has not been a guarantee of "pot-pourri I".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u130	You didn't read the "pot-pourri I," apparently!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u131	Yes, sir, I read it very well!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u132	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u133	We can always ask for the floor. You had the floor, Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. This increase in the sentencing rate is obviously a serious decline. It is based on a repressive and worthy ideology, Minister, of the nineteenth century, and indeed of the old regime. You said you wanted to bring our justice, through a triple jump, into the twenty-first century. You missed the check. It was a missed opportunity. I am sure there will be a high rate of sentences of up to 40 years. Enclosing a person half his life, or until his death, amounts to permanently rejecting it from the community of human beings. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we shall return to the same logic that prevailed for the death penalty or for civil death. In this, one denies a fundamental right, the one that every human being has to aspire to live freely, and the one to restore meaning to his life. This criminal setback simply makes no sense. This is not an angelic discourse or a certain laxism that could be attributed to the Socialist Party. Such a rate does not meet any need, on the contrary! It risks making prison management and post-prisoner much more complicated. No balance can be made with any positive effect, since the prison population is increasing. We're increasing the violence that's going to be driven by despair and, at the end of the race, we're increasing insecurity in our already overcrowded prisons. These are recurring events in our prisons: prison guards strikes, prison staff strikes. The prison staff have been reduced, there are tensions, and convictions are constantly coming from Strasbourg for inhuman and degrading conditions. When we do not have staff to get the detainees out, they remain in a promiscuity that is unacceptable to Belgium: they are four in ten square meters. This is unacceptable. And all of this is going to cause problems in our prisons. I'm not throwing the stone at you, Minister. We know that this is a long-standing problem. But, with the measures included in the "pot-pourri II" law, prison overcrowding will increase further. We will make beings who will be unable to reintegrate and who will be ready to fall back into crime. For the State, the cost to be borne in the budget is increased, since one inmate costs 50,000 euros per year. Yesterday we had a debate on prisons in the Committee on Justice, an interesting debate that we will have an opportunity to continue because the problem is recurring. We have nearly 11,060 detainees in Belgium, which, multiplied by 50,000, gives about 553 million euros as a budget. All the studies show that all the actors on the ground are unanimous: such delays in incarceration have no deterrent effect on the commission of a crime. How can we believe that an individual will abandon his ambitions, his criminal intentions because, suddenly, the maximum penalty that can be imposed will be increased? In committee, a truth has been constantly reaffirmed during the hearings: it is not the level of punishment that deters the criminal, but the certainty of being punished. Yet, Minister, the majority has been deaf to these criticisms and all this evidence, including the usually very cautious appeal of the Council of State, which is an unequivocal suggestion to reduce the rate of maximum sentences that can be imposed by correctional courts. Moreover, the blind repressive logic of this project is not limited to a mere increase in sentences. It is coupled with mistrust of judges, since this government decides to systematically remove access to alternative sentences for certain offences. Once again, beyond the negative impact of such a measure on the prison population, the government dehumanizes the sentence a little more. Again, I am compelled to recall one thing: from our benches, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for us to consider any particular solutions that may appear before a judge. In other words, there are not two identical human beings, because there are not two human beings who have lived the same life. Minister, you want "effective" justice, it's a term that you often use! If our criminal justice is to be effective, the sentence must be able to be adapted by the judge to the personality of the convicted person, to his or her career, to the circumstances of life. Let's take the example of a robbery. There is the person who flies for pleasure, because it gives him a certain excitement, a discharge of adrenaline and there is the person who flies to eat; of course, it is not a theft for which a law is systematically applied. One takes into account the personality, the life course of the person to adapt a sentence. In this way, our criminal justice will have a human face and will be even more accepted by the citizens and the person who committed the offence. The sentence must be individualized as far as possible. It's extremely important. In order to do so, the judge must have a wide range of measures to be imposed. To remove from him some which seem too lenient is as much a mistrust of him as, as I have told you, of the diversity of human lives and trajectories of life. In addition, it is an outdated design of alternative measures. In this, the "pot-pourri II" represents a flagrant regression from the developments we are experiencing. Colleagues, I would like to use the words of Françoise Tulkens, a former judge of the European Court of Human Rights, who sums up my thoughts well. Yes, beautiful woman! I'm not the one who says it or the PS. Speaking of alternative measures, Ms. Tulkens said: "No favor, no privilege, no advantage, no indulgence. These so-called alternative sentences are necessary and indispensable measures to prepare for the re-integration of the prisoner and to consider the possibility of his release in good conditions." Human justice is an individualized justice that goes beyond the character of a mechanical application of texts. In this package of measures without "Raison" with a large "R", the government wanted to generalize the extension of the limitation periods and obviously confirms the imprescriptibility of certain crimes. Yet no matter what he imagines, he can still do nothing against the flow of time and should not refuse to take it into account. Indeed, everyone knows that, after a certain period of time, the evidence is weakened and this prevents the judges from telling the judicial truth. There is an alteration in the memories of witnesses and, as a result, an increase in the risk of miscarriage of justice and a violation of the rights of the defence. I come back to that famous "pot-pourri I" I read. If my memory is good, Mr. Mainz had issued a written report on the statute of limitations and he said that at one point, justice had to do its work and that we had to learn the lessons of failure. After a certain period of reflection, justice had to be done. Either she made herself or she didn't make herself. These limitation periods were increased in the Brabant killings case, but Mr. Mainz also recalled that it was sometimes more complicated to explain to victims that there will be no effective penalties because the case was not tried within a reasonable time. For the victims, it's harder to accept. This prolongation runs counter to the right to be tried within a reasonable time, a principle enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. There is, therefore, a real concern that, in addition to further congestion in the courts, this provision will lead to the absence of effective penalties, which is sometimes very serious for the victims. There is another physical law with which the government seems angry, that of Lavoisier: "Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed." Had the government remembered this principle, the mini-investigation would not have been extended to the search. Why? Because believing that unburdening investigating judges to charge prosecutors will generate savings is simply science fiction! More seriously, throughout the discussions, the majority once again seemed to minimize the trauma of a search. However, there are very few investigative measures that are experienced as a threat to privacy and the inviolability of the home. It is really essential that such a decision be taken seriously and not lightly, especially since it frequently concerns persons who are totally innocent but are relatives, close to a suspect and who are collaterally suffering the negative effects. My point is not to say that the members of the public prosecutor's office are less cautious than the investigating judges, but, by allowing the search through the mini-investigation, I would remind you that the responsibilities between the person who asks and executes them and the person who authorizes them without having to justify themselves are dilute. We all know, the more responsible, the less responsible we feel. The investigating judge offers additional guarantees since he or she is investigating the case and on his or her behalf and is familiar with the case file. It has the power to opt for other means of investigation that will be less intrusive rather than limiting itself to the binary choice of mini-education, which in fact offers fewer rights to the persons concerned. Searching through mini-investigation is not the only measure of this pot-pourri II which is a serious blow to the private life of the justiciable citizen. Such a reform should have been seen in the context of a comprehensive reform of the criminal procedure, because, we must not mislead ourselves, it is known that what is emerging is the disappearance of the investigating judge, with the resultant increase in the capacity of the prosecutor's office at the stage of the investigation. Like the reform or virtual abolition of the Court of Assizes, this development would also have merited much more in-depth discussion. With regard to wiretapping, which was rightly considered by the legislator to be very intrusive in 1994, they had been accompanied by guarantees punishable by a penalty of nullity, which the majority is now questioning. I also wonder about this development. Why would a telephone conversation be less intimate than it was 20 years ago? When we know that in this period of time, the number of telephone calls has been constantly increasing, which has allowed the emergence of the Antigone case law, the disappearance of these guarantees is worrying. You can sometimes hear that "if you have nothing to blame, you have nothing to fear..." No! We have rights and there are procedures to guarantee them. To put an end to it is no longer to protect our fundamental rights, especially that of our privacy. In a completely different register, I will not dwell on the restrictions that have been imposed on the opposition by default. I will even go so far as to admit, minister, that in this case the majority has shown wisdom in admitting the causes of legitimate excuse. However, since the objective was to avoid dilatory manoeuvres, I believe that it is not just a matter of interrupting the statute of limitations for public action. Given that I am on my positive track – take advantage of this, because unfortunately this does not happen often; in any case, it will not last – I also recognise that the majority has heard the main criticisms that have been made of the binding timetable for the exchange of conclusions. However, the same is not true of the restrictions on the appeal. We have discussed this at length in committee. According to the many experts who have shed light on this issue, these provisions will affect the most vulnerable litigants, who are without a lawyer. The question remains, minister. If the motion filed by an individual who is not assisted by counsel does not mention procedural grievances - it is known that this is an eminently technical aspect - will the scope of the appeal be automatically reduced to the other grievances that will appear in the motion? Will a person who is not specialized in criminal law be able to make criticisms of a procedure? Will anyone who has not studied law or has no legal notions be able to express grievances? I doubt it very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I now come back to one of the measures that has brought almost all the experts against her, and this is unfortunately her only virtue, I am referring to the abolition of the cassation appeal in the context of preventive detention and the rules of procedure and special methods of research. One understands the objective pursued: to alleviate the workload of the Court of Cassation. In fact, the minister's justification is primarily statistical. You say, minister, that there are a lot of appeals, but too few judgments are allowed. Since this is not the case, the law must be abolished. In doing so, the government makes a double mistake. First of all, this government considers the right to be frozen. For my part, I am obviously in favour of a dynamic conception of law. You have to look at what the situation creates as much as it avoids. In this case, the mere fact that judges know that their decisions can be monitored is likely to positively influence the quality of their work. But if, tomorrow, this appeal is removed, why would a judge continue to be diligent in motivating the maintenance of pre-trial detention if he or she knew, in the end, that he or she would not be censored? Why would he analyze in relation to the reasonable time frame, in relation to the serious evidence of guilt? There is a risk of reducing the quality of the work. The repeal of this appeal in cassation also forgets that it avoids the annulment of a trial after long years of proceedings. It would also lighten the courts and make a more efficient procedure, as you say, minister. Obviously, beyond a dynamic analysis, it is again and above all principles that are challenged. Again, I would like to use Mrs Tulkens' words as clear as they are. She said: "I regret the proposal to abolish the possibility of filing an appeal in cassation in respect of pre-trial detention. Contrary to what is written in the explanatory memorandum, this is indeed a review by the Court of Cassation. As the European Court of Human Rights recalled in its Civet v. France judgment of 28 September 1999". This unjustified and worrying questioning of the presumption of innocence does not end there. Of course, I find it equally reprehensible that the monthly monitoring of this same pre-trial detention should cease. From now on, from the third decision of the Chamber of Council, control will be carried out only every two months. This is a step backwards which ignores the exceptional aspect of pre-trial detention, since, ladies and gentlemen, the person is always presumed innocent at this stage. To this is added the impact on the pace of the investigation, since the obligation of the investigating judge to file his case at the Registry allows him to be called to order every three weeks in the evolution of his investigation. A bimonthly check will only have one effect, which will be to slow down the investigation and slow down the investigation. Instead of filing his file at the Registry every three weeks, he will file it every six or seven weeks. The investigation will therefore drag a little more for those people who are still considered innocent, in pre-trial detention. Yesterday in committee, we had a debate on prisons in Belgium. I recall that 60 per cent of the prison population is in pre-trial detention and is presumed innocent. If we want to relieve our prisons, we should not touch this measure, and above all not extend the appearance to two months after the third appearance. In this "pot-pourri II", the prior recognition of guilt, Mrs De Wit spoke of it, may be the only unprecedented measure that is not drafted to the detriment of the rights of litigants. It's a part where I'm positive, enjoy it, pay attention! If, of course, such a procedure should not exist in a perfect judicial system, it must be noted that with sufficient safeguards, it offers undeniable advantages both for the players in the judicial world, we have heard it at the hearings, and for the justiciable. The obligation to be accompanied by a lawyer or the impossibility of proposing such a measure during an investigation and pre-trial detention are, of course, part of the necessary guarantees, but not sufficient since the project is still far from perfect. Even if it is on the right track, we would, at least initially, have liked this procedure to be limited to the smallest infringements. This brings me to another more critical reform, namely the reform aimed at granting appointed prosecutors certain powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office. From a budgetary point of view, we return once again to Lavoisier's theory, Minister, which was very well summarized by Mrs Levecque at the hearings. I quote: "If the prosecutors do the work of the magistrates, then who will do the work of the prosecutors?" Obviously, the transfer of workload is not going to solve the problem. More fundamentally, this measure raises the question of the independence of prosecutors who, of course, remain under the disciplinary authority of the administration and therefore of the executive. In this regard, doubts can be raised as to the relevance of the distinction, which was raised in committee, between appointed prosecutors and contract lawyers. In doing so, how can a specific appointment process for judges be justified? And if it appears, in the course of the proceedings at the hearing, that it is appropriate to require, for example, the abandonment of the proceedings, on the basis of what standard, will the prosecutor have the freedom to request the abandonment of the proceedings? The answer to this question remains open. Minister, the independence of the prosecutor's office is not a futile concept, especially in our judicial system. Indeed, while the role of prosecutors may evolve, this evolution must be considered in a comprehensive manner with particular attention to the separation of powers. However, the reform proposed today, at the turn of a few articles, reflects, above all, a very weak or, in any case, incomplete position. Before concluding, I wish to dwell on the chapter of the "pot-pourri" which has been the subject of the most ardent criticisms on the part of some of the most eminent jurists in our country. Of course, this is the fate of illegal aliens in prisons. They are being removed from a range of procedures for the execution of their sentences. These arrangements, in addition to the fact that they prepare the prisoner for reintegration, allow him to enjoy his fundamental rights, inherent to every human being, whether Belgian or foreign, free or incarcerated. This is about the right to live a family life and the right to have access to health care. This generalization of measures towards a group of people is obviously blind to the many realities of prisoners. We were amply reminded of this at the hearings: some have no ties in their country of origin, or are able to regularise their situation in Belgium, or cannot be the subject of an expulsion order. These are therefore both stigmatising and useless measures, as the Council of State has clearly demonstrated. He recalled that the assessment on a case-by-case basis helps to prevent the risks associated with the granting of implementing rules. In other words, all the elements of discrimination in violation of articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution are combined in these more specific provisions of this "pot-pourri II". Pending a cancellation promised by the Council of State as well as by former judges of the Supreme Court, these measures, like many other measures of the "pot-pourri II", will serve only to feed already overcrowded prisons. It is a long way off, Minister, when you allowed us to reduce prison overcrowding and the cost of justice in your Justice Plan. It is now preferable to increase the rate of sentences, to end the monthly supervision of pre-trial detention, to restrict alternative penalties or to abolish appeals in cassation during the investigation. You will understand that, minister, you have produced exactly the opposite of what you promised us in your Justice Plan. Let us turn now to the underlying logic of this reform, namely economies, economies, economies. We can still legitimately ask ourselves how this project will achieve these famous savings. It is neither by increasing the number of incarcerations nor by increasing the length of prison stays that the State will save. An inmate has a short, medium and long-term cost to our society. These provisions of the "pot-pourri II" law will therefore be counterproductive. And what about the principles of good governance that are trampled on and the legal insecurity created by this project? These measures are promised censorship by the Constitutional Court. Is it not your role to improve our justice? Is it not your role to take care of the rights of citizens, to safeguard the rights of litigants? It's really time to get together. This project does not strengthen the rights of citizens. On the contrary! There has been a systematic reduction of the rights of the litigants, even to the limit of the acceptable. Colleagues, let us not forget, as parliamentarians, our role is to ensure that citizens' rights are respected. And that is why my group cannot of course support this project, because it runs counter to the fundamental rights of Belgian citizens. This "pot-pourri II" refers to another era, that of dehumanized justice, away from the citizen and serving those who are supposed to serve it. This is a typical case of civilization retreat! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u135	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will illustrate my point with a personal example. Two of my children are law students and when they saw me leaving with the "pot-pourri II" under my arm, they said, "We're still going to study something for nothing, since all this will be changed." This is at least what was explained to them in judicial law at the University of Liège. And yes, that is part of the law! The law is constantly evolving. The law must try to stick as often as possible to the evolution of society. We're trying to do it right. We can't always do this. In any case, it is necessary to have the modesty to grasp these changes with the necessary setbacks. In my capacity as chairman of the committee, I believe that we have not worked badly, majority and opposition. I would like to mention this in the preamble. Indeed, projects have been tabled on the committee table. We've conducted hearings. Parliamentarians, the majority and the opposition, participated positively in the debates. It was less heavy, Mrs Özlem, than today, not heavy in the expression, but your charges were less negative in committee than today. I felt that your group's approach was more positive. But it's a simple personal appreciation. This "pot-pourri II" project does not seem to me to be so negative on many aspects. I shall be brief to leave the floor, in particular, to Mr Brotcorn, with whom we have already had a first debate on the radio earlier, and with a few small difficulties in terms of the use of words, which seemed to me equally heavy and negative. I thought the term "circumstances" was excessive. The world of justice is difficult to reform, because it is not a binary world. It is a world that involves several stakeholders, with different sensitivities depending on the point of view they place themselves and the responsibility they have. A judge is a judge. A prosecutor has another role. A lawyer has another role. A citizen must already understand how justice works, whether he or she is an alleged perpetrator or a victim, and the entire society that apprehends the facts in the criminal field, which is regularly pinned up in the press. So it is really with a lot of delicacy that criminal law needs to be changed, because as much as it does not target many people – we are not all criminals and offenders – the impression that this can cause in the public is probably oversized in relation to the reality of the people facing criminal justice in our country. As Liberals, we want prompt and effective justice, justice that agrees to question itself, justice that can ask the right questions when the time comes because procedures may seem outdated or unnecessarily lengthy. Minister, your job was to think about these procedures. You said you wanted a closed envelope with which you had to operate justice. As far as I know, justice continues to work even if, at times, we have to stick together, we have to make special efforts, we have to ensure that the proposed measures are understood. Sometimes time has to be allowed for these measures to take off. Let us be modest, as we have asked in committee, to recognize that a measure may not be entirely adequate, that a measure requires some adjustments and adaptations. I am not going to repeat the whole debate that took place in committee. A second reading was even carried out, dear to Mr. Van Hecke. Second readings are of great interest in terms of correction of texts or consistency with other texts. The court of seats will always exist, contrary to what one wants to make believe. Moreover, this is not the first time that it has been reformed. In 2009, some crimes had been corrected, so that was not new, and some judgments of the European Court of Human Rights had been taken into account, according to which it was useful for judges to be more involved in the process of deliberation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u136	If we modernise the procedure of the Court of Assizes, why have we not provided for a degree of appeal, since it is a reproach which is regularly made to us by the European authorities and the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u138	Within the framework of this Commission, the appeal had been suggested. But the appeal comes through correction because the decisions of the correctional court can be appealed, and you know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u139	You support mordicus, because it is the slogan, that we do not remove the court of seats, whereas, de facto, we delete it! You tell us that going through the correctional court will allow for a second degree of jurisdiction for these crimes that would not have known him had they been sitting. It was enough to foresee the degree of appeal in the court of assizes and the case was settled! You then had great credibility in your stated concern for the maintenance of the assize court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u140	One does not prevent the other, at this stage. I didn't say I was against the possibility that there would be an appeal in the court of seats. This is another debate. I'm talking about what's going on today. Let us be honest to admit that you have heard as many opinions as you have heard against. It is very difficult to take a position on this. It can also be recognized that some assize trials are particularly costly, while in some cases this is not necessarily useful. It was heard, particularly in the case of the victims, that a trial of seats allowed for mourning and a better understanding of the decisions taken. This is why we have been asked by other groups to ensure that what will be rectified and dealt with in the correctional court will be more oral in the course of the proceedings. The Code of Criminal Investigation already allows this, but unfortunately it is not implemented. We may need a little cultural change, but, Mr. Brotcorne, you were showing it earlier, it is difficult to have a clear opinion, and in some cases it is true that the assize court is a significant cost, and it is not always justified. We therefore believe that this development is in the right direction. There is still an additional act of trust. It was already the frame of my speech on potpourri I, to say that there is increased confidence in the judiciary since it is the indictment chamber that will have the last word in relation to that. I'm not going to repeat the arguments for or against, we've heard them. In my personal capacity and on behalf of my group, yes, the maintenance of the assize court is an important element. If interventions can be made later, why not. Many of us have highlighted the potential interest of skeining. It may also be part of a useful development, since if you have a jury of judges appointed for a single trial, it represents a lot of investment; perhaps it would be interesting to have people in the framework of a truncation, with a slightly longer period of time for, on the one hand, to understand the basic legal concepts and, on the other hand, to ensure that the work does not have to be repeated each time for the minimum explanation of the judicial mechanisms. As far as mini-instruction is concerned, I have the impression that we are discovering something that already exists. On the one hand, it already exists, on the other hand, the guarantees are precise. The investigating judge will continue to intervene first to agree to a search request. That means the prosecution won't be able to work alone. It was clearly said in committee. It doesn't always sweat in public opinion. This mini-investigation and the resulting search will have to be carried out by the investigating judge himself or a judicial police officer. So that's a second guarantee. I would remind you that the investigating judge may refuse the mini-investigation. Of course, it's an intrusive method. A search is a heavy act in terms of privacy, but the safeguards that already existed are maintained and appear to us to be sufficient as they are. This will, in any case, speed up the work. If my figures are correct, 700,000 cases are submitted annually to the Public Prosecutor's Office, with 70 per cent ending in a closed case. In some cases, setting up the entire judicial system may prove unnecessary. One can also trust the common sense and practical approach of a case from the prosecutor's office to say that the use of mini-investigation does not necessarily require the whole judicial system to stop very quickly after a search, whether positive or negative in terms of results. It was important to report that. With regard to pre-trial detention, Minister, we experienced some difficulties at the beginning. Then we were reassured about two or three aspects. To increase to two months represents a kind of uniformization of the three months and of the one that is applied. At least the provision will be clear. It is also understood that the first two months of pre-trial detention will be maintained. A council chamber will be called upon to renew it or not. It is only after a third detention that this will have to be confirmed every two months. In general, it covers a period of six months. These two criteria have given us guarantees. The measure is likely to be part of a more general reflection on the role of the investigating judge and on the possible establishment of an investigating judge. Failure and opposition are part of rationalisation and accountability in criminal proceedings. I won't come back. Others talked about it. The same applies to the grievance appeal, which was requested by many. This provision also allows for greater accountability of justice actors in the context of a trial. Clarity is essential. Thanks to this system, it will be facilitated. The willingness to act for the proper conduct of a trial will thus be satisfied. The guilty plea is a good measure, which is unanimously appreciated. This is, moreover, one of our demands, which goes back a few years. We have entered into a process of conciliation, not only in criminal law, but also in civil law. The aim is to strengthen mediation mechanisms. This measure is part of it. This gives us the opportunity to sink into this potpourri II a widespread practice, namely that lawyers and the party under attack can rely on the wisdom of the court. Here, there is a negotiation that can take place between the prosecution and the alleged perpetrator. The victim is not forgotten in this process, which is also very important to us. This ends with approval by the judge, who obviously retains all of his role and importance in relation to it. It was also time to change the criminal transaction slightly for several reasons. It was not normal for some to make some kind of estimation game, to bet themselves: "I will wait as long as possible to see whether the decision will be favourable to me or not, whether I have an interest or not to resort to the criminal transaction". The idea was to let a decision fall and, depending on it, suddenly try to provoke the criminal transaction. Now things are being clarified. It's a good decision. The criminal transaction may only take place if there is no decision on the merits. This re-empowers the interventions, choices and decisions of each other. The second is particularly important in relation to this: from now on, a record of this transaction will be made in the criminal record. It was not normal that because we could possibly afford a transaction, it would allow for the purchase of a virginity. It was also important that it appeared. Contrary to what has often been suggested in the public, criminal transactions do not concern only large cases. They're much more frequent than we think. The emphasis on this extended criminal transaction will, I hope, also help to decongeste the courts, to ensure that, since the courts are de-engorged, justice will be provided more quickly. Remember, the objective you announced when you took up your duties was to ensure that a trial could take place within the year of its introduction. Let us hope that with these measures – there will be others that will come in potpourri III and potpourri IV and in more detailed reflections on more specifically targeted institutions – we will achieve this objective. Minister, I said in the preamble: reform is not easy. In this Parliament, no one has the miracle recipe. Everyone probably has the will to ensure that our justice moves forward, that it is faster. There are obviously different sensitivities but, for having had the opportunity to hear the expressions of each other, I still cannot be convinced – on the contrary – that our litigants would be penalized, that the rights of the defence would be defeated and that our justice would be weakened after this potpourri II.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u141	Mr President, Minister, my speech will be a lot less quantitative than Mrs Özen's, although I hope that it will be of the same quality. I would particularly like to comment on some of the opposition's accusations. I have heard Mrs Özen say that this minister is above all an accountant who tries to work as cheaply as possible. If one is not strong, one must be smart. If we have limited resources, we must try to be even smarter and more efficient. I think that the word efficiency, which Mrs Özen has also stressed a number of times, is very important in this reform. It goes without saying that this is about cost savings, but it is about cost savings that bring together efficiency gains. I think this is perfectly defendable. Mr President, I find it a little strange that the opposition says that there is no vision. I believe that the extent of Mrs Özen's speech in itself proves that there is a great deal of vision in the story. Otherwise, all measures will not be dealt with as long and as point by point. Moreover, if, at the end of the speech, the big words are not shy of referring to problems with civilisation and the like in order to try to be right, then I think there is more than vision in the text, apparently more than desired by the opposition. I also understand that people complain about too little debate. I have listened to the chairman of the committee and I believe that this is the last thing that can be blamed for the treatment of potpourri II. I haven't been in Parliament long, since 2007, since Mrs Onkelinx was Minister of Justice, and I've seen a number of ministers pass by in the meantime. However, if we look at the way in which we have given time to deal with potpourri II, then the intellectually honest opposition that there is, like Mr Van Hecke and his French-speaking colleague from Ecolo, will have to admit that too. I think we have given more than enough opportunities to the debate. The opposition parties that were interested have had enough opportunities to do so, and they have done so fairly. That is something I must stress. That is also important, because there are indeed some visionary ideas in this reform. There's definitely a vision in it. Important political choices are also made, such as the guildy pleasure. It is a reform that can count, as well as the limitation of the possibility of moving to assists. These are essential choices, and hearings must be held on them. Mr President, you will not blame me for defending my Minister. All the questions raised in this legislature have been answered, and I have never seen that before in the Committee on Justice. Whether it was agreed or not, the Minister always gave a rationally substantiated and, of course, intellectually honest answer, as we expect from our Minister. I do not think that criticism is appropriate in this respect. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could go over the many elements of the visionary reform that is on the table, as Mrs Özen has done. I won't do that. I could refer to the reduced likelihood of procedural errors because the provisional detention regime has become simpler. I could also talk about the mobilisation of the parties and their lawyers through the formalisation of the time limits. I won't. However, I would like to make two quick points, which I consider important, also on behalf of my group, to underline. Firstly, assists is, of course, the symbol of this whole reform. It is therefore not the most important thing, but it is an important aspect of it. In fact, we are trying artificially to avoid the costly and time-consuming procedure for assists where possible, not only in terms of cost savings but also in terms of efficiency gains. I have been able to argue in a number of assists in the past, and for me the added value of assists is mainly in the oral debates. I have to agree with Mrs De Wit on this point: the test will have to be carried out, it will have to be looked at how the now corrected crimes can lead to oral debates in the correctional courts. There is a need for this kind of heavy file. I must say, however, that this oral aspect of assistance processes has sometimes gone out of its way, but well, the professionals will have to show how they deal with these oral debates, because they can have added value in difficult cases. As a personal fact, I would like to point out that a reference to the Aquino affair, which takes ten times longer than any assistive case, actually compares apples with pears and thus wrongs a number of citizens of my municipality, especially the Aquino family, who is involved in the case. This is a very specific procedure. So the comparison is totally out of place. I would therefore like to make a few points on this point. Mr President, throughout the course of the discussion of the draft, the accusation was that the present potpourri II testifies to a calving confidence in the judges. That was raised, even during the discussion. I would like to come back to that. If exactly one case does not happen, it is that we give less confidence to the judges. The present reforms are based on the fact that we and the current minister rely very much on the strength, the work force and the knowledge of our judiciary. We certainly do not doubt that. We are giving even more powers, if only by extending, for example, the correction system and thus allowing the courts to intervene in such heavy procedures. Finally, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that some very fine legislative proposals are the basis for changes to potpourri II, such as the extension of the mini-instruction to the search for homes or the reformulation of the aggravating conditions in the event of blows and injuries. I cannot emphasise enough the quality of the legislative proposals contained in the draft law. That is one of the many points that convinces our group to approve this visionary reform of criminal law with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u142	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said repeatedly, even by the opposition: Justice can be more efficient, modern, faster and better. They're all right. When it comes to justice and justice, only the best is good enough. This is also the reason why a very important part of the government agreement is devoted to the reform and modernisation of justice, including through the reform of criminal law and criminal procedure. It can and should be clearer, more concrete and more efficient. My group is also convinced that a large process is a sine qua non for a modern rule of law. The committee agreed that the problems in criminal proceedings are frequent. Mr Minister, today you are presenting a draft with 260 articles, and that is just the beginning. The bottlenecks are frequent, but fortunately also known. This means that we can work together to find solutions. With regard to criminal proceedings, we are thinking of the different limitation periods, the excessive absence of procedures and the time-consuming, little added value of the regulation of justice for the chamber of incriminating. I could go on like this for an hour, but that's not the point. The resolution of all these bottlenecks requires a comprehensive and thorough exercise, to which our group is happy to cooperate. Mr Minister, today we are discussing and are about to vote on your potpourri II draft, which is already addressing some of the obvious reforms. This is happening today because further delay cannot and should not be discussed if we are in the best interests of Justice, and both your and my group are in the best interests of Justice. Some of the current reforms do not allow any further delay and we have therefore fully supported them. Soon we will approve the whole thing. By the way, I find the argument of the opposition a bit odd. During the discussion in committee, I felt that there was a certain consensus on many of the measures proposed. These include even the measures on the deadlines for conclusion. Is it not better, and are the rights of the defence not better served if the arguments of the prosecution are known in advance and if the person concerned is informed in writing, so that the person concerned can prepare himself well and well in advance? Well, I had the feeling that there was a certain consensus on this, even with Mr Özen. In fact, some concessions have been included in the texts. The Order of the Bar also agreed on these measures. So I am actually a little surprised to hear the critical noises today, not only about the rules on time limits, but also about the procedure provided for prior recognition of debt. Let's be honest, behaving today too often accused themselves of the wisdom of the court. In other words, they are coming to plead guilty before the judge who is punishing them. If we now say that this is the great fundamental reform affecting the rights of the defence, then it is not correct in its assessment. The only thing you're taking care of today is that magistrates shouldn't needlessly write a statement of reasons when the judge pleads guilty himself. With regard to the reasons for the appeal, Mr Özen wonders how a person who has not eaten cheese under the law and is not qualified in it can appeal against a judgment which he does not agree with. It has been clearly explained in committee that a model form will be available. As the Registry today prepares the declaration of appeal and its signature, it will in future be possible to fill in the model form and, if there is any doubt, perhaps fill in a cross too much. However, the possibility of appeal will remain in its entirety. Only one can restrict one's profession if one so wishes. If one only makes an appeal against the confiscation, for example, then there is no risk that there will be a follow-up appeal from the court, which can only serve the rights of the defence. In this way I can discuss a number of measures with you, Minister, but we have already done so in committee. So I will not do that again today. I have only noted that even the most critical actors in the field, provided that the adjustments you have accepted admit that the rights of the defence are not harmed. I take as an example the period of appeal, which is extended to 30 days. Today we have fifteen days to reflect and look at the file, even if they have been sentenced to serious prison sentences, and to decide whether or not to appeal. So in the future that will be 30 days. It will be possible to read very carefully the motives of the first judge, to consult with his counsel and to appeal very deliberately or to rely on the first judgment. I believe that with the proposals before us today, the rights of defence have been strengthened rather than weakened. As you know, we would have preferred a number of points in the draft to be dealt with in the comprehensive reform of criminal procedure, as announced and for which experts are already preparing. The reason for this is double. Firstly, on a number of these issues, such as the reform of assistants and the provisional detention, we felt that a comprehensive review would be better presented than a partial one, as is the case today. Secondly, a number of procedures are being cut, such as the extension of the mini-instruction, which gives more power to the public prosecutors, without the counterpart of that lack of external supervision or the contradiction that comes into the proceedings at some point, and the rights of the civil parties and the defence, have been strengthened. There has been no thorough debate on this either. We would have liked to have seen that integral, but from friction comes light and even on the difficult points we have found each other. As far as the reform of assists is concerned, the choice has been made for the preservation of jury justice and the preservation of assists. It has been assumed that the procedure, as it is today, is heavy and absorbs an enormous amount of capacity. I don't think any of us will deny that. It is right that you want to remedy that. You have our full support for that. That was important to us. We have found each other in the choice of retaining the People's Jury in relation to the question of guilt, without the possibility for the professional magistrate to vote in the assessment of the question of guilt. The People's Jury is therefore not the guardian of the courts of law. She will receive support from the courts, but will ultimately only decide on the question of guilt. That is very important to us. We have found each other because we are aware of this and all the actors agree that the great added value of the Court of Assists lies in the fact that the main witnesses and experts are heard during the execution. Very often useful and important decision-making elements are put forward in this way. However, we also know, Minister, that in 90% of crimes after correction, it is already the correct court today that judges very serious crimes. The same opinion was expressed by a number of fellow Members from the conciliation committee, and it is clear that it is also your firm will to make the necessary time and space for the proper sessions in the future and to ensure that sufficient staff and resources are available, so that the serious crimes are also given due attention, even when they are dealt with by the Court of Assists. Of course, we will have to trust the magistrate, but that is right, otherwise it will be an impossible task to manage justice. Mr President, even with regard to the extension of the mini-instruction, we have found each other. We've narrowed it down to the search, which is a good thing. We have listened to the arguments put forward. In cases where it was initially thought necessary to carry out a search to discover certain elements in the context of the taking of evidence, it turns out that, precisely because of the search, a file is not capable of carrying out a judicial investigation. [[Today, however, in the absence of a mini-instruction, this means that the entire mill of the council chamber, the regulation of the procedure and so on must be carried through, which means that a great deal of time and resources for justice are lost, whereas that is not really necessary.]] On the other hand, you have agreed, Minister, to deal with the other original coercive measures within the framework of the major reform that is to come. The assessment will also have to be made in order to maintain one or two procedures, the question will have to be answered how we deal with the role of the investigating judge, with the coercive measures and so on. It was an interesting debate in committee. You also accepted a number of amendments, Minister, which arose from hearings with actors in the field. You have heard the voice of the opposition. You have taken into account the concerns and concerns of this Parliament for better justice. This has led to a text which I hope will receive the support of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u143	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not say anything fundamentally different today than in committee. I will be consistent and try to maintain the same line. I won't be too extensive, either. Potpourri II has already produced a lot of ink and has already received a lot of criticism in the media, in the comments and also in the committee. Of course, there are good elements in it, but do you expect the opposition to speak for half an hour about everything that is right? Of course, we are mainly looking for the bottlenecks, but rest assured, I will also say something good once in a while. It is quite right that there should be criticism. Just as for the other potpourri laws, I thought it was potpourri II's intention, pending the major reforms of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to achieve a number of quick wins, as is mentioned in beautiful Dutch. They wanted to achieve a few savings without fundamentally changing the rules of the game. Of course, this will only happen with the major reforms, for which working groups have now been set up and which we expect to be able to discuss in principle this year on the broad guidelines. However, the present text has a much greater impact than what we were told. Some changes are fundamental adjustments, which also affect parties' rights. It's not just quick wins, it's often preliminaries on the necessary reforms that will happen later. That is why we have made three fundamental comments in committee. I shall come back briefly to that. I will not go over all the measures one by one; I will try to get a line in it. Firstly, the changes lead to a shift in balances. I shall give a few examples of this later. In criminal proceedings, that's a delicate thing. Secondly, they lead to the reduction of the role of the judge and a shift of power to the parquet, a strengthening of the power of the parquet. Minister, I can see you frowning the eyebrows, but I will give you a few examples. Thirdly, they are mainly aimed at making major savings, sometimes without thinking about their consequences. It is characteristic of criminal proceedings that there are balances in the laws and procedures, in the system, if we may call it that. This balance has been achieved by years of evolution, by new insights, by case law developed by the Court of Cassation, by treaties such as the European Convention on Human Rights and by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Think about the Salduz arrest. Without the European Court of Human Rights, we would never have had that judgment and all kinds of amendments. This is how people try to reinstall that balance. People have also become more interested in the victims. Without the Dutroux case, we would not be where we are today. A number of essential changes which we regard as evident today would not have been introduced in the early 1990s. New balances were also created through social developments. Think of the technological developments which require an adjustment of the procedure. Now we also have DNA and phone taps. We didn't have that when we wrote the code two hundred years ago. In view of this healthy balance in certain areas, we must also be careful when we touch that balance. Where derailments have arisen, we must, of course, intervene. We will therefore support these measures. Essentially, it is about the balance between efficient prosecution and a fair trial. Let me give you a few examples. Mr President, we have talked about the control of pre-trial detention and about the changes you are proposing in that regard. From the third decision, the audit would only take place every two months. The goal is noble, namely to keep the provisional detention as short as possible. The only question is whether this measure will lead to shorter detentions. I would like to repeat the arguments on this point. Each month before the council chamber, also means that every month the investigating judge must go to the council chamber and present a number of new elements from the investigation. If this is to be done every two months, the investigators may consider that they still have two months and thus a little more time. Maybe they'll give priority to another file first. Will the investigation therefore go faster if the check is carried out bimonthly? I'm not convinced of that. Each month's publication also means that the defendant and his attorney will inspect the file every month. If the time limit is increased to two months, the check shall be reduced. That fact, coupled with the deletion of the possibility of appeal, also means that the statement of reasons can no longer be verified. The result is that the existing balance has been disturbed. There may even be more people in remand than is the case today, which is actually contrary to the objective of your judicial plan. That is why, Mr Minister, we have also argued in favour of linking a number of other elements of the judicial plan with the measure in question. After all, you had announced that you would make some revolutionary changes to the provisional detention, for example the introduction of maximum time limits according to the seriousness of the crimes and the penalties imposed on them. If you had linked that intention to the new reform and the bimonthly control, you might have achieved a new balance that we would have found acceptable. A first part of the amendment has been made. However, a second element, essential to us and related to it, has not been implemented. We will have to wait a little longer for this measure to be approved by the government. I have already mentioned the abolition of the absolute nullity of telephone tapes in committee. I will not go into that further. After what happened today, perhaps next month we will have to abolish nullity if a signature on an arrest warrant is missing, or for drivers' mistakes.................................................................................................................................................................................. I hope we don't try to take down existing nullities in every incident. We have to be vigilant. On the one hand, I get a hard feeling when people are released after mistakes. On the other hand, if we cover all mistakes with the cloak of love, then our justice evolves into a system where nonchalance becomes the rule. So we need to find a proper balance. You've decided to remove the nullity from the phone taps. Once again, an essential balance is being violated. Thirdly, the mini-instruction will be extended to the search. The investigators weren't really set up with this at the hearings. Following a search by an investigating judge, the defendant and his lawyer will have regular access to the file today and will be able to take note of the results. From now on, it'll be done by the parquet. Therefore, if the investigating judge does not draw the file to himself, we will once again establish a reduction of duties. As long as the investigation is ongoing, the accused has no access to the file. That change will not be offset by more rights for suspects. An existing balance has therefore been changed once again after that measure. We discussed for a long time the amendment of the BIM law, even though it was an appendage, at the very end of the discussion. The method for identifying telephone numbers and IP addresses is considered to be a common method rather than a specific method. However, there have been changes to the audit. The six-monthly report shall be an annual report. The BIM Commission was able to supervise. It was able to apply a review of proportionality and subsidiarity. If the BIM Commission found an infringement of those principles, it could intervene by suspending or destroying data. What are they doing? The procedure has been made more flexible. I don't have a problem with that. The control mechanisms, which depended on them and were sometimes useful, disappear. This once again brings about a change in balance. In particular, Parliament must remain vigilant when it comes to monitoring the activities of intelligence services. I am not going back to the agreement with the National Bank on the exchange of information. The discussion arose as to whether or not that was a circumvention of the BIM law. We've been asking questions about it. We must always pay attention, Minister, because the intelligence services always want to be able to use more methods in an easier way and with less control. It always will be. Soon the BIM Act will be reviewed, and I am sure that they will press for a legislative amendment in this evaluation, with the argument that this can also be done in the Netherlands, Germany or France. We want that too, they will say, but with not too much control please. You, Minister, and Parliament will then have to make it very clear that if new methods are necessary and useful, they can be discussed, but that proper monitoring will be ensured. That balance must be built in and guarded. This is a small change, which means that the control will be reduced a little bit. With regard to the mandatory deadlines, there was a problem with the prosecution. That has been resolved by amendment. The balance has been restored to the text. That is a good thing. These examples show that there is always a shift in balance for the benefit of justice but to the detriment of the accused, or for the benefit of the intelligence services but to the detriment of control. I do not think this is a good thing. These are my observations on the first line. For all these reasons, Minister, we are again tabling a number of amendments that we tabled earlier in committee, in order to restore balance to the BIM legislation and to allow the BIM Commission once again to act in the event of breaches of subsidiarity and proportionality. I come to the end of the role of the judge. Not only because of potpourri II, but also because of the new measures against terrorism, at least in its communication a few months ago, it was sometimes insinuated that the role of the judge would disappear. And course the route will probably be updated. We'll see. What do we see today in potpourri II? Firstly, the Guilty pleasure, which clearly gives more authority to the public prosecutor. The court can conclude an agreement with the defendant under certain conditions, and that agreement will still be submitted to the court, but in practice this will mean only marginal control. People are still seeing the power of the public prosecutor increase. Secondly, the extended friendly settlement. It's even more problematic there. That's where the prosecutor makes a deal with the accused, often on financial crimes, and the judge can't even make a judgment on the ground. He can't even refuse the deal for the sake of opportunity. All he has to do is check that the law has been complied with, that the procedural steps have been followed. That is why we tabled amendments at first reading to abolish the system of extended friendly settlement, which was introduced a few years ago. If it continues to exist, more control mechanisms should be introduced, for example, no longer after the subpoena or with the explicit permission of the investigating judge when there is a judicial inquiry. I am also thinking of explicit confirmation by the judge on the merits, because if the judge is already caught on the merits of the subpoena and is then confronted with such an agreement, he can no longer judge on the merits. Many changes are possible to strengthen the role of the seat judge, but you have not chosen to do so. You have chosen, and that is a good thing, that there will be a report on the criminal record and that it will no longer be possible to appeal or cassation, which is the logic itself. That's a little improvement that's been made. A third example of the removal of the role of the judge is the mini-instruction, which is now being extended to the search of the house and which again gives more powers to the public prosecutor. Of course, it can be argued that the investigating judge can always decide to keep the file, but when such a system is in rotation and the public prosecutor comes to the end of the investigation with a heavy file. We have noticed that in the hearings. Once again one notices a sneaking evolution towards more powers and more power for the prosecution. A third aspect is savings. It is clear that potpourri II is motivated by the unacceptable government's drive to save money in the field of justice. This in itself is unacceptable, especially the linear, unprecedented savings that are causing deep wounds in the operation of justice. The potpourri I was also intended to make savings, but topped with the sauce of efficiency. Now we see the same thing, but the consequences are more profound because we are dealing here with criminal law and criminal proceedings. That is something other than civil law. The best example is assists. We can discuss this a lot. One is for and the other is against. I would like to discuss the quality, the added value that an assist case has or does not have. Is that good for our democracy or not? Is that good for our justice or not? Should we modernise that or not? What crimes are we going to hold that for? What has now been decided is the compromise of the compromise. In the government there were perhaps a number of people who wanted to abolish it and others who did not want to abolish it. The first compromise reached was that cases could only go to assists when they concerned the qualification of the victim, policemen or children. The Council of State has rightly said that this could not be done, because it is discriminatory. Now there is a compromise, where one has to decide on a case-by-case basis whether or not to send the matter to assists. Other aspects and positive elements in assistive cases have not played any role. An aid case is also about the substance of the debate, about the oral procedure, about the repetition of a number of cases. We have already read in the press how through an in-depth investigation at the hearing, through the hearing of experts, the jury sometimes also discovers errors in the investigation, because a number of investigations had been carried out carelessly, and how that led to an acquittal. If all such cases are brought before the proper court, will they be dealt with in the same thorough manner? After all, these are matters on which there are the most severe penalties, and they are being increased. And isn't there a risk that important cases will be cancelled by the correctional court? That is what we were talking about in committee and I felt that everyone felt that such matters should not be dealt with like other corrective dossiers. For those files, we need to do something special. However, it is not worked out in the law. Mr Cheron will come back to this later. I also read comments from experienced assistants, who say that when the attempted murder was corrected, a whole day was originally set aside for such a case, because it used to be for assists. After that it became half a day and now it happens that cases of attempted murder are on the roll with other cases in half a day of the correctional court. That is, of course, the creeping evolution. We can all agree here today in this hemisphere that this should be a valuable procedure, with the possibility of hearing an investigative judge or experts. But if that is not in the law, what will happen in a few years' time? Will these matters still receive the qualitative treatment that we have in mind, or which some people want? And this is particularly true if justice continues to face savings on staff and if the workload increases. Colleagues, it was remarkable that the magistrates we have heard were almost all in favour of the quasi-abolition of assists. For they began to count on it, one must always pay attention to lawyers who are starting to calculate, saying that 9 million can be saved and that fifty magistrates and fifty employees can be recruited. That's fantastic, they said. Do the magistrates really believe, if this draft is approved and if 9 million can be saved, that the 9 million will be used for fifty additional magistrates and fifty additional employees? But no! You also know that you will have to make a number of savings again next year, so any savings you can make today will be continued in the coming years, because that is the basis for future savings. There will therefore be no extra magistrates because of the so-called efficiency gains that are being realised. Perhaps the magistrates will think differently in a number of years, when they remember this passage. A second example of savings is about the public prosecutors. I have a lot of trouble with that. I really don't know where it came from, but apparently it's a proposal from the attorneys themselves. The prosecutors are allowed to take over a number of duties from the parole magistrates with the present law, they are allowed to apply to the police court, they are allowed to give advice at the court of first instance and therefore also in family matters. However, it has already been decided in potpourri I that the advice in family matters is no longer mandatory, so that is where the importance of these opinions has already been reduced. Now you even decide that these opinions may no longer be drawn up and issued by a magistrate, but by a court of law. They may issue research orders and may even ask for a mini-instruction. They can deal with the GAS and football laws and so on. This measure was, of course, based on the savings logic of this government. Of course, because a parole lawyer will cost less and is therefore cheaper than a parquet magistraat. A parquet magistraat must undergo training and take exams, because it is not just appointed. A court lawyer works contractually and if he is appointed, he can be called in, actually as a cheap labor force. That is not a good development, Minister. I have the impression that my fellow Members are not so happy with this measure across the borders of majority and opposition. Not only the police judges are unhappy with that measure. I don't think it's a good thing. After all, what is the next step? Will court lawyers for minor crimes be allowed to bring the case in the future as well? Why not go to the council room for a referral or something? That's how the ball's gonna roll. That's the big danger. That is why we have retabled our amendment to delete that article so that we do not allow such tasks to be taken over by public prosecutors. We are prepared from the opposition to support you, Minister, if there are extra needs in the court. If there is a genuine need for reinforcement at the parquet, we support you to increase your resources for a proper framework at the parquet, instead of making a shift by involving more parquet lawyers instead of parquet magistrates. Colleagues, the so-called efficiency exercise dominates the design. It goes a long way sometimes. For example, the appeal must be made compulsory and must be recorded in sufficient detail. I think it's almost schoolmaster-like. If one makes an appeal, we, as legislators, are going to say which form should be filled in and what should be ticked. We also warn that we need to be careful, because if we do not, there is a problem. After all, the judge would only judge the grievances that have been raised and woe betwixt one more plea at the hearing to put forward an additional argument. I think we're freaking out. It can sometimes be a bit more efficient and transparent. It is true that some lawyers appeal in a chaotic way and develop their grievances, but I do not know whether this practice will be a major advance in practice. Efficiency is not all. There is also such a thing as the quality of justice and thoroughness. It is about criminal law, about the condemnation of people, about justice and about arms equality. These are principles that we must always take into account when making changes, especially in matters such as criminal law or criminal procedure. Mr Minister, I would like to leave it at that. You will understand that we cannot support these reforms. However, I would like to say that the treatment of potpourri II was a step forward compared to potpourri I. Indeed, there was more openness to make some obvious adjustments and corrections, an openness that was not yet available at potpourri I. We have not been able to make any fundamental changes. I do not think we should dream of that either, but when the practice showed that there were a number of punctual problems, this was addressed. It is a good thing that this was taken into account, but basically we still have a very big problem with many of the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u144	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you are not all worn out and tired. In any case, we will do our job and say all the good, and sometimes the least good, that we think of the text that is proposed to us. (Mr. Nollet applauds) I'm not finished, Mr. Nollet! Minister, I have a definite problem with your method of work. As I said in committee, as much as I appreciate your general policy notes, your presentations and your Justice Plan within certain limits, I find it important that you can consider with us profound reforms of our Penal Code and our Code of Criminal Procedure, so much I do not understand too much why – while the work on these two subjects is announced to us within a reasonable time, still under this legislature – we need to head down on changes that do not always appear urgent, failing to be necessary or timely. I'm not the only one who says it. The Council of State, the first judge of the texts tabled by the government, does not say anything else. Maybe he says it a little more diplomatically than I do. When he tells us that it is up to Parliament to assess whether these reforms are already to be implemented or whether they should be incorporated into a more comprehensive review of criminal procedure law, he says what I have just said and wonders why these small packages, step by step, are to be implemented, when everyone knows that more important things will happen tomorrow. Minister, you have an advantage over us. Indeed, you know – I am sure – what these changes are leading to. We parliamentarians, at this stage, do not know the modalities or the conditions and do not know in which direction the experts appointed for this purpose are working. You will understand that we do not want to buy "a cat in a bag" and that we sometimes have some difficulty following you in relation to that. The Council of State is not alone in relaying what I am saying. We have already quoted it today. Mrs Tulkens also believes that there is a need to avoid the fragmentation of initiatives because it denies any real reform. Mr. Paul Martens said the same thing by saying that, because some people had abused their rights, it would not be necessary for a whole category of people to be deprived of the exercise of those rights. The League of Human Rights, which I quote last because it is not necessarily appreciated by those to whom we would like to cite its reflections, says exactly the same thing. We would still have an interest in waiting for the work of the reform committees of the Code and of the criminal procedure. But that, Minister, we have already told you. You persist in considering that things must be done. They are finally combined into a single document containing different provisions. We are therefore faced, as parliamentarians of the opposition... This is not the case of our colleagues of the majority who know that they must vote everything, without any opposition. However, I have still heard this afternoon in the debate a few questions, a few states of soul. When someone in the majority talks about evaluation, it often means that they do not fully agree, that they want to follow you, but that it may take an evaluation in six months, in a year's time. I have heard Mrs De Wit, who is not here, and I have heard the President also on certain aspects. I understand that Mr Terwingen, who is not here either, sometimes also has small concerns, even if he supports his minister – it is still the least we can imagine that he is doing the opposite. You are still leading us this evening to make a choice on a global text, and therefore to issue an indivisible vote, when there are provisions in your text with which we, at the CDH, have no difficulty, with which we can agree. I'll start with that, maybe it'll go faster than with the rest, minister. The flowers before the pot, if you'll allow me the expression. You are inviting us to vote on this text which we were waiting for on the recognition of guilt. We fully agree with you. This will also make it possible to move towards what you want: a more effective execution of sentence, because the suspect will have accepted the idea of his guilt. He will have participated in a form of sentencing negotiation that will be applied to him. One can imagine that the sanction will have a far more effective effect than just saying: you will go to prison for a few weeks, a few months, or even a few years. We therefore have no concern with this, even if, as the League of Human Rights wanted, one could have imagined that the fact that an accused person would have acknowledged his guilt, agreed to participate in this new way of considering punishment, would give him an opportunity to hope for a somewhat different sanction and perhaps, perhaps, a little lighter. Perhaps this would have allowed for wider access to this plea-guilty than would have been expected. The extensive criminal transaction has caused a lot of ink to flow, and it has raised a lot of questions. At the time, we passed the bill. Today, on the basis of the conclusions drawn from the practice, it is decided that it will no longer be possible as soon as a decision has been taken. That goes without saying. This is the result of common sense. It is therefore very good that this is the case, just as it is normal for this type of decision, which is also a court decision, to appear in the criminal record. You are proposing a reform of the Court of Assizes to allow judges to deliberate with the jury, not only, as is already the case, for the sentence, but also for the decision of guilt. On the other hand, some of your proposals on simplification, service, quotations, judgments and judgments go in the right direction. But you will not prevent me from thinking that everything that is proposed to us is dictated by purely budgetary considerations. I think you will agree with me on this point. In doing so, you register in the circle quadrature. Between the good arrangements, the desires of the humanist you are and the realities of the field, there is often a certain margin. In committee, you always invite us to move forward, and you're right. Others before me have said this, the judicial body, the functioning of our justice system deserve attention, that we reform what must be. It is not because it is a power recognized by the Constitution that the power is established once and for all and we must not ask ourselves questions. Yes, there are questions to ask. Yes, we must try to be effective. Yes, you have to be efficient. Having said that, I come here to the points in your text on which I do not agree. Minister, do you consider that we are moving towards greater fairness when you propose to increase sentences from thirty to forty years? I know it's a technique. I know that you are, so to speak, condemned to do so, from the moment you want to avoid the passage of crimes before the assize court by correcting them. If these forty-year sentences may never be applied, as I hear some people say in committee, why is it written, why is it said? There are no such penalties in any civilised country or in any European case. Even to convict someone for crimes against humanity at the level of international institutions, the limit is thirty years. And in Belgium, we're going to go to 40 years for certain penalties, while in 2009 we were only ten years old, then we're going to go to twenty and now we're going to go from twenty to forty years. Is that how you intend to fight prison overcrowding, which is one of your important political issues? Is it better, is it fairer to significantly reduce the impact of mitigating circumstances? The notion of extenuating circumstances is diverted. It is used to explain that we are going to move from the assize court to correction, but at the same time we are going to consider that mitigating circumstances will no longer have as much effect on the fixing of the criminal penalty and in some cases we will even refuse to allow judges to use them to apply alternative or accessory penalties, which are more targeted than the prison sentence. Is it better, is it fairer to increase the length of pre-trial detention and instructions? What is proposed to us in this text this evening, the fact of spreading judicial control over pre-trial detention over time, of ensuring that the instructions will be longer, will not be in line with your will to combat prison overcrowding, which is known to consist mainly of persons in pre-trial detention. Is it better, is it fairer to further increase the time to obtain parole? All reports say that the only obvious tool to limit the prison population is parole, which also helps to combat recidivism, so as to prevent convicts from going to full punishment so that they are no longer liable to society at the time of their release. Is it better, is it fairer to limit it in criminal matters to the point of emptying it almost from its substance? Default convictions are often accompanied by immediate arrests, which have the effect of filling prisons. If tomorrow someone is arrested on the basis of a default decision, that he wants to oppose but that he cannot justify this opposition by a case of force majeure, he will be told that his immediate arrest remains valid and that he will remain in prison. Is that how you will fight prison overcrowding? I'm convinced the opposite is true. Is it better, is it more equitable to remove the possibility for the trial judge to impose alternative penalties on certain offences, certain offences or even certain crimes? Is this not contrary to all current trends in criminal justice, or, in any case, to a modern criminal justice system? Mr Minister, in your draft, and in reference to what I have just mentioned, fundamental rights are, in many respects, being undermined. They are not flouted or suppressed, but their exercise is made particularly complicated and difficult, especially for a section of the population that is not the most educated. When I say educated, I speak not only of the procedures and functioning of the judiciary, but of the ability to understand documents that are sent to them by a judicial authority, who, when they wake up with a court decision whose effects they understand and want to fight, will get answered: "It is too late. You should have understood more quickly what you were facing. Now you are no longer in time, or you are not in the conditions of force majeure. If you go on appeal, you have not filled out a box correctly. The decision that concerns you is final, we can no longer do anything about it." It was a more general intervention. I turn to the more concrete aspects of your proposals. A dossier is being debated and will continue to do so. We will not exhaust the debate today. In addition, you do not give us the opportunity to do so. This is the place of the Assize Court in our judicial arsenal. Should the seat yard be maintained or removed? This is an interesting, important and constitutional debate, and I will return to it. For me, it's a society debate first, and we don't have it. Why? It feels very good that, in your proposal, there are two things. You cannot announce in practice in the face of our fellow citizens that you are abolishing the court of assizes. Not for fear of saying it, but for fear of not having a political majority to do so. We thus circumvent the problem by emptying the court of assizes from its substance and saying that we will correct everything so that the professional magistrates can know about these cases, being understood, and it is the guard that you systematically propose to us, that it will always be up to the indictment chamber to decide whether to refer to a court of assizes. My frustration comes from the fact that we don't know what we're going to do with the assize court, which we maintain as a matter of principle. I would have preferred to have been told that the Court of Assizes is maintained, that it is reformed and modernized, or that the Court of Assizes is obsolete, that it no longer has any meaning and that it must be abolished, especially since it generates costs that are no longer tenable for justice today. That would be a clear speech! Either there is a court of assizes that has the means to function, or there are no more assize courts! What we're being offered today is to stay in the middle of the ford. There is a court of assizes, it is in the Constitution, you can hardly do without it. But we want to, so we're gonna act like we're keeping it while we're bypassing it. That's not right! This is not political transparency towards our people! What about the constitutionality of what you propose to us in relation to the Assize Court? This is a debate which has not been sufficiently thorough and which has not been taken all the time in committee and again this evening in our House. The Council of State was still relatively concerned about how you function. What is the principle set out in article 150 of the Constitution? This article tells us that the Assize Court is aware of all the crimes. All crimes are therefore sent to the assize court. It is true that we have already introduced exceptions in our law for certain crimes that have been corrected. And when we corrected the first crimes, we never saw them return to the assize court, they were systematically returned to correctional chambers. Today, what do you propose to do in your potpourri II? What you're proposing is to reverse the situation. You tell us today that the assize court becomes the exception and that correction is the rule. That is what you are proposing to us and it is, I believe, contrary to the constitutional principle of Article 150 – constitutionalists have come to say this at the hearings before our committee. What is all the more surprising – and this is probably where unconstitutionality lies – is that the transfer transaction you propose to us, you do it by law and not by an amendment to the Constitution. It was simpler to say: "The Constitution is amended and it is said that the Assize Court is competent except in cases which the law determines" with a minimum of modalities. Here you don't touch anything and you tell us that it is the law that today will correct the crimes so that they can be returned to the assize court. You're going even further, Minister. Where the Council of State tells you that it would be necessary, at a minimum, to clarify, in law, the cases and conditions under which we go to the correctional court rather than to the court of assizes, nothing, nada, no proposal. This is where the height and the risk lie, it is a circular of the Attorneys General who, tomorrow, will tell us, instead of the law, what will be done: removal to correctional or referral to the court of assizes. Since when has a circular, even a general prosecutor, replaced the law? I think you're going to face difficulties. Whether you are a supporter of the Assize Court or not, there will certainly be appeals to the Constitutional Court in relation to your text. We started a debate in committee. The debate allowed to give rise to an idea following the interest and added value that even the critics of the assize court recognize to it. What is it? Essentially, it is the orality of the proceedings, the ability to repeat before magistrates and a jury a whole range of information and instruction that sometimes makes it possible to give birth to things different from those we have in the written file, where we take our time, where the victim has his place, where he feels heard, recognized, where the citizen is involved in a work of justice at a time when we are increasingly asking for the intervention of the citizen in a series of spheres where it was the prerogative of politics or of the public service. Today, we are being asked more and more - some even go so far as to imagine drawing lots from the elected representatives of this assembly - to disregard the participation of the citizen in the function of judging, especially since this right granted to citizens is a constitutional right in the same way as the right to vote, for example. Is the right to vote, guaranteed by the Constitution, restricted by law? No! And we are about, not to limit by law the fact of the existence of the assize court, we are instructing our attorneys general to clarify the cases in which the choice between one way or the other might still be offered to us. However, and this is where the interest or non-interest of your method arises again, even if you are still going to defend yourself from not touching the assize court, you are aiming at it and in committee, we realized that we were going to lose some very interesting and important elements of this procedure before the assize court, to the extent that we considered, in the event that the crimes were tried in the correctional court, finally to develop the traditional correctional chambers by perhaps increasing the number of participants rather than the number of the three judges. And now, Mr. Minister, I am doing you justice! Earlier, with regard to my intervention, Ms. Özen said that there was a risk of being referred to a single correctional magistrate. I can confirm that, but that's not the case! The "pot-pourri I" provides for a three-judge chamber for such cases. We must recognize his mistakes and give back to Caesar what belongs to him. We therefore found it useful to add a fourth or fifth judge from civil society. Then we thought of reviewing the way witnesses are heard, translating the orality of the proceedings before these correctional chambers. We almost agreed that, in this direction, it was necessary to create a particular correctional chamber to accommodate this type of situation. Would we not have done better to have this debate at the time of the reform of the Penal Code, the Code of Procedure? We would have been faced with all your proposals and all that was possible. We would have done more useful work than we are going to do now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak because I share the same views as those of Mr Brotcorne. That will exempt me from expressing myself earlier. On the theme of the assize court, I agree with what was said by Mr Brotcorne. I think that was also said in committee. We regret that there has been no real debate when article 150 of the Constitution is open for revision. Not all the others are, but this one is precisely yes and it is not used; it has a small frustrating side. Beyond these frustrations, we have not had a real debate on the modernization of correctional courts. We'll probably have it one day. It seems to me, perhaps you will confirm earlier, that you said in committee that we should have this debate on the adaptation of the correctional courts to accommodate debates. I would remind you that assize classes are about a hundred cases a year; in correctional, we are about fifty thousand. It may be interesting to keep things positively looked at from the point of view of the citizens, namely the orality of the debates, the ability to bring witnesses, the consideration of the civil parties, etc. We wish we had a debate. When we are in opposition, we are modest, we are asking for a debate; sometimes we have amendments translated into positive votes; that is rare but it can happen. So we would still have liked to have a real evolution in corrections taking this into account. First element. The second element, and I will conclude on that, is the famous circular of the Attorney General. It seems to me that in committee you promised us that in times that were approaching the plenary session; as the plenary session has receded, I imagine that things have changed and I hope that we will have some information. The aim is also not to have different courts depending on the place and to have a case law so as not to talk about uniformity. It's also the risk. Or it will be the race to choose the best place to be judged. This information would still allow for a debate on this issue, beyond the regrets that have been expressed and which I share with Mr Brotcorne and Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u146	Thank you, Mr. Cheron. I think the minister has understood. The debate in committee will at least have had this benefit. However, we have not been heard about the amendment of the text or its possible postponement, as there is no urgent need to reform the Court of Assizes and extend the correction. I don't see how much money we can make. I hope we can discuss it again. It is possible to find a middle path, because the procedure for the assize court has undeniable qualities. It is, for example, a tool for social cohesion. Imagine that, in the Dutroux case, there was no sitting court, no one could have been heard. The catharsis could not have operated had this case been tried by a confidential chamber of a correctional court. Minister, you're a lawyer. Tracing the court of assizes by resorting to mitigating circumstances instead of being invoked for the imposition of the sentence, it is still a violation of the law! That's why I spoke to Mr Goffin's great dam on the radio about the law. In order to correct the crimes, it will be necessary to consider that they have ex officio mitigating circumstances – in such a way that, if the perpetrator of a crime wishes to be tried by a court of assize and not by a correctional court, he will have to plead the absence of mitigating circumstances. You see what kind of legal construction we find ourselves in. It is a pirouette, a "legal dress", since you prefer those terms, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. In any case, it departs from what a good practice of law should be. Of course, since sanctions differ from one type of court to another, you will increase them. It's a real pass trick worthy of a magician who pulls a rabbit out of his hat. This legal construction can hold the road, but using instruments that are diverted from their usual use. I've already had the opportunity to tell you what I thought about the compensation and the lengthening of sentences. We will probably be one of the only civilized countries to have a 40-year sentence in our legal arsenal. While you also keep telling us that the importance and value of the reform of the Penal Code will be to re-evaluate the scale of penalties, to see how we will sanction tomorrow, so as to be effective, to empty our prisons, to avoid the use of prison, which you yourself describe as the worst solution, to examine as a last resort if we want to resocialize and avoid recidivism. We are doing exactly the opposite of everything that is regularly argued – I almost said preached – to explain to us that it may be difficult today, but that the best will come tomorrow in the reform of the Penal Code and the procedure. Even the Council of State has recommended that you reduce the most severe sentence the correctional judge can impose. You didn't listen to him either. I also fear that we may have some difficulties with this. I try not to be too long and sometimes pass some elements of the intervention that I had planned, but I still want to intervene on one point or the other, minister. I'm not going to dwell on the lengthening of the prescriptions. With regard to the suspension and the stay, I agree. It is a matter of extending the scope of the stay, since anyone who has no legal history of more than three years will be able to benefit from it, whereas today it is 12 months. This will allow our magistrates to apply this modality much more broadly to avoid incarceration. But at the same time, you are telling us that a suspension or a stay cannot be granted in all cases, with the exception of certain types of offence, offence or crime, or certain penalties. It is in this that your project, Minister, induces, perhaps unintentionally, but it is a reading that you will not be able to prevent, a certain mistrust of our magistrates. This mistrust seems totally unwarranted to me. The mini-instruction is not so trivial as that. First of all, the Conseil d'Etat held you back, eventually reducing it to the problem of the search. Why do you come with this very precise element, particular, when we know that this will also be part of your overall reform, that the question of the place of the investigating judge is raised? What are we moving towards in our system of tomorrow with the reforms that we do not yet know? The removal of the investigating judge? Maintaining the investigating judge? The creation of an investigating judge? We do not know at this stage. I do not know what your experts will give birth to in the draft reform which will be proposed to us in some time. In the meantime, you're moving forward. And you say you're considering mini-instructions. Recently, it was the place of the Public Prosecutor's Office at the hearings of the Family or Youth Court. Why don't we settle this tomorrow, when we face all the elements to adopt a coherent approach to your political will towards the judicial world? At this stage, what worries me and is watermarked in the texts that we have so far voted for is this rise in the power of the prosecutor's office in a range of matters. I'm sorry, but the prosecutor's office is judges, but judges are hierarchical, first and foremost subject to the authority of the Minister of Justice. This is a slippage, failing to speak of drifting towards a form of justice or the organisation of justice, where the interest of conducting information or instruction with the elements "for" and the elements "against" is undermined. I'd like you to answer us in the place of the investigating judge, tomorrow, in our judicial system. Is it the prosecutor's office that will eventually have to replace him? We referred to the "telephony and nullity" aspect. I do not understand why, at some point, for such an intrusive act in privacy, the nullity regime should not be maintained for certain cases or situations. After the vote, there will no longer be a single case of nullity under the Code of Criminal Investigation in relation to the right to privacy. That does not seem to be the case in this rostrum! I think it is important to say so in the gallery! Indeed, this means that, gradually, a form of protection, which is essential in a democratic system, of privacy is being decoupled! I know we're dealing with complicated files, terrorist cases. I know that public authorities must respond to these situations that we may have known less in the past. Responses must always be proportionate, measured. In the end, it must be said that we do not make exceptional legislation because a few individuals would deserve it. Indeed, these exceptional legislations apply to all of our population and to all those who, tomorrow, may be in the position of justiciable. Pre-trial detention is one of the levers by which you will reduce the prison population. And what do you propose to us? To increase the time taken for judicial review. What's going to happen then? We will wait until the deadline has expired to appear before the Chamber of Counsel and to ensure that an investigation is initiated. We'll say, "I'm going to the board room tomorrow or in front of the betting room, this case should have evolved from the last time." It's not right. We will again give a poorly used form of comfort, as in this case. One will say: "I will go as far as the law allows to go before performing additional duties and advance in information or instruction of a file." You have at least agreed to postpone the entry into force of this provision until next July. I think it was wise. Again, this is a discussion that we should have had as part of your overall reform. I come to the "default and opposition" aspect. You are starting from a principle that could be admissible and understandable. It is important to avoid people choosing to be sentenced by default, so as to play the watch, and hope that when they return to court, the statute of limitations may have played. Although there are not many statistics available in the judiciary, it is known that these situations are not the most numerous. They are even the rarest, for the matter of opposition. To achieve this goal, we will greatly complicate the situation and perhaps see people going to prison who would have nothing to do with it – this is not your goal, nor ours. This could happen because these persons were sentenced in default to an immediate arrest, and they could not declare an opposition, as it was declared inadmissible because it was not based on a justified state such as force majeure or valid ground. What's going to happen, minister? It is the most vulnerable public that will make the costs of legislative changes such as those you propose. This fragile public does not understand what is happening to him most of the time, who does not know that he will have to go to the audience, who only learns it well after, when it is already too late, you risk finding him where you do not want him, i.e. in the prison universe. This measure, which is unfair, particularly in the case of this public, is not compatible with international texts. Belgium's international commitments and obligations do not allow us to go along the path you are proposing today with this bill. It's a bit the same principle for the grievance appeal, although here too you can be reached regarding the limitation of unnecessary appeals, which are only intended to save time. Asking people to appeal a grievance makes sense if one really motivates the appeal. If, as we understand it from the beginning of the commission work, these grievances are simply to fill in a model that will be at the Registry, on which boxes will have to be checked, people will check all the boxes to be sure that they are not wrong, not to be limited in their appeal. Then you will have missed the goal of your reform. You will have no fewer calls, they will always be as extensive, unless the appeal judge's referral is necessarily and formally limited to what has been set out in your model available to litigants. In the end, the reasons for the appeal should not be used solely as a pretext for limiting the appeal. We have referred in committee to the difficulty of litigants who appear without a lawyer, of the power which is granted to the public prosecutor to make a wider appeal after the convicted person, without the latter being informed and without the possibility of extending his appeal. We also discussed all the problems that this may cause in the event of a change of counsel between the time an appeal is filed and the time when the appeal is called. A lawyer does not necessarily have the same vision of a case as the confrere to whom he succeeded. He may have to speak successfully before a court of appeal about grievances or grounds that would not have been dealt with by the convicted person's previous counsel; he would therefore be unable to assert rights, which would have been justified. Mr Minister, you are making changes to the external legal status of detainees but mainly for people in difficult and vulnerable situations, who are not allowed to stay in Belgium but who are still in our prisons. Many of the people we heard in our hearings said that they felt bad about these provisions. Finally, I come to the reference to the use of prosecutors' lawyers. Mr Van Hecke, first of all, in committee, drew our attention to a misappropriation of the use of the procedure or judicial staff. You're proposing that tomorrow, in the police court, rather than a substitute for the King's prosecutor, a prosecutor's lawyer sits. Public prosecutors, despite their expertise, are not full magistrates. I would point out that, if the prosecutor's office now requires in the police courts, it is in order to remedy what appeared before it as a real joke, in which it was seen that the prosecutor's representative was the police commissioner. Everyone knows that a commissioner or police officer was not necessarily the guarantee of obvious jurisdiction to go to a police court. We wanted to put an end to this by saying that the prosecutor's office was going to deal with this kind of situation. It was more credible, more serious, more meaningful. Today, you're doing some kind of back-up, prosecution lawyers are going to act and while they're doing this, they're no longer in the service of the substitutes they're supposed to help. If you consider that the Public Prosecutor's Office must intervene before the police courts, please appoint substitutes. Complete the framework and substitutes will be able to perform their duties before the courts where you feel that the public prosecutor's voice must be heard. This would be a much clearer logic. Minister, you like to say that it is never an obligation, that it is a possibility. We can't go to the assize court. One may not go before a single judge ("pot-pourri I"). We can't send the prosecutor's attorney. But the possibility will exist. I would like to draw your attention to the prosecution lawyers. It will happen that during a hearing of the police court – the police court deals with serious cases with important personal and human consequences – a decision will be made to send a prosecutor's lawyer while at another hearing of the said court, it will be decided to send the deputy prosecutor of the King. In other words, when one considers that an interesting case deserves the interest of the prosecution, the King's prosecutor will be sent, whereas when one considers that this is a less serious case, the prosecutor's lawyer will be sent. This is a two-speed justice, a justice represented by two types of magistrates. This is a development that we cannot accept. In conclusion, Mr. Minister,... [[Applause]] However, it is extraordinary to note that it is sufficient to say that his intervention will be completed to be applauded when we discuss fundamental elements relating to the functioning of justice, with fundamental and essential considerations. The turn taken today, however, is not without importance. The various measures that have been taken under this government, but also under the previous government – here I am doing my mea culpa since we were then part of the majority – aim to have an increasingly secure view of things, which is not the best way to do justice in a democratic society worthy of that name. I will conclude my speech, for the great pleasure of those who wish, by referring to the conclusion of a carte blanche published in La Libre Belgique and signed by two eminent magistrates, today pensioners. By the way, minister, your project also includes a measure relating to the situation of magistrates after the age of pension. This is a measure that can also be welcomed. These magistrates wrote: "Combating prison overcrowding, allowing the judge to maintain his role as mediator between the law and the citizens, respecting the principle of equality of arms, these are essential issues." I'm sure you're sharing them. Justice must more than ever care about people, saving them as much as possible the pain that any conflict necessarily generates. This involves sentences administered calmly with the aim of educating, redressing, inserting, socializing; sentences handed down by courts and tribunals that are empowered to listen to the litigants, to perceive their experiences and to adapt their decisions to the diversity of situations, in accordance with the fundamental principles governing the fair trial. Equal access to the judge, equality of arms, respect for the adversarial, this justice, I recognize myself in it and I hope that we will not deviate too much in the weeks and months to come. But I do have fears when we see what we are being put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every day it is proven that a soft approach has only resulted in serious crime. Today, unruly inmates receive compensation because they would have been mistreated in prison. Serious criminals are still released today after serving a third of their sentence. Prison sentences under three years are converted into a little home detention. Foreign thieves gangs are given free rein due to the lack of international cooperation. Mistakes of procedure lead to gangsters smilingly going free. Finally, anyone who has the resources can buy off his process without any problems in many cases. Due to the decades of neglect of justice, due to the policy of tolerance and the soft approach associated with it, our society has almost forgotten what a normal justice policy means. In my humble opinion, these are four essential elements: firstly, the unhindered identification of criminal offences; secondly, an appropriate response from the public prosecutor; thirdly, of course, a just punishment and, fourthly, the consistent execution of the sentence imposed. I am convinced that it can and must be done more efficiently in these four areas, and that, above all, the last element is the biggest problem facing the Justice Department today. That is why my expectations for the potpourri II Act were very high. If you want to make justice credible again, you need to change your mind in criminal law and criminal proceedings. However, I am disappointed by the result that has been achieved today. There are, of course, good elements. I have already heard my colleagues from the opposition condemn the increase in sentences. I think that is a very good measure. There's still good business in there. The extension of the repatriation of convicted persons is a step in the right direction. You will not be surprised that it should have been a little more as far as I am concerned. However, you also missed a lot of opportunities. Lifelong life is still not lifelong, and that crazy Lejeune law is still not being abolished. I am aware that the major reform of the Criminal Code and of the Code of Criminal Procedure is yet to come, but many of the changes you are making today to this bill would, on the contrary, take place much better in a broader reform of criminal law, within a visionary reform. What is happening today are some isolated changes here and there, which means that there is far too great a risk that the balance between the parties to criminal proceedings will be disrupted. If, for example, as in this draft law, you give more powers to the public prosecutor, it must be accompanied by more rights of defence during a preliminary investigation, otherwise you run the risk of an imbalance between the parties. There has been a number of references in the discussion to the budgetary constraints within which this draft was drawn up. The savings are an obvious common thread. Fully motivated by the need for savings, by the process economy, is the shift to the correct courts, which has already been mentioned a great deal today. In concrete terms, the most serious crimes will be treated in the same way as the malpractices. The extensive right to dispute, including hearing witnesses and experts, disappears. The investigation, the discovery of the truth, will take place far less at the trial of those most serious crimes than was the case in the Court of Assistes. It is simply impossible, because the workload of the judges in the correctional courts simply does not allow such a way of working. The judges will therefore have to rely much more on the criminal record alone. However, if the criminal record is to become so much more important, it will have to include more guarantees for the parties, otherwise you will again be at risk of affecting the fundamental rights of the parties, thereby distorting the balance between the parties and also increasing the risk of legal error. The prior recognition of debt, the guildy pleasure, also creates a distortion, namely between the prosecution and the other parties. It is logical that there can be an accelerated trajectory for those who confess, but that also entails a risk. After all, the higher the negotiating margin for the market, the greater the likelihood of arbitrariness and abuse. The pressure on the suspect to confess, no matter how, could be very high. In the present draft, the negotiating margin for the parquet is very broad. The main fundamental criticism of the draft law is the introduction of electronic surveillance as an autonomous punishment. Here too, it is a measure for saving purposes, but now at the expense of safety. The biggest pain today at the Justice Department lies in the unbelievable, even mostly totally absent, implementation of sanctions imposed. In practice, for many years, it has been shown that most of the effective prison sentences are not or hardly carried out. The criminal policy of the last 20 years has been characterised by a kind of deep aversion of the prison sentence, which is supposedly harmful to the inmate and thus counterproductive. Instead of finally breaking that mentality, you continue to see prison sentences as an ultimatum remedium with this draft law. This is a dogma from the left-wing vision that is consciously focused on non-execution and systematically shortening effective prison sentences. Moreover, the role of the criminal court is dramatically restricted by it. The draft law gives the criminal court a number of alternatives to the custodial sentence, because the prison sentence remains a real ultimatum remedium for you, a last resort when the other penalties are not meaningful. We differ fundamentally in this respect. I do not share that naive and strange vision in which a prison is only seen as a means of keeping the really dangerous, preferably not too long, out of society. This vision was the basis of the 1996 orientation paper of then Minister of Justice Stefaan De Clerck, which defended an absolute ceiling on prison capacity of up to 8 000 cells. That is the absurd philosophy of reductionism. As a result, it has been refused for years to expand the capacity of these cells. The overcrowding, you know the story, has steadily increased, and people have continued on that mad path of non-execution of prison sentences. While, in recent years, it has finally become clear that the capacity of the prisons needs to be increased and that capacity is finally being increased, you are now taking a step back. Because of its security character and its exemplary function, Flemish Interest believes in the necessity and effectiveness of the custodial sentence, not only for the prisoner himself, but for the whole of society. We have always felt, to this day, that a prison sentence actually carried out is much more dissuasive than an anklet regime. Guideland Netherlands shows that it is indeed efficient. In the 1980s there was a turnaround, when it was decided to proceed systematically to the execution of prison sentences, no matter how short they were. That signaled that impunity no longer existed. That worked very preventively. Crime's down. There is now an over-capacity of cells, precisely because there are fewer criminals now, not because they are being left on the streets with some alternative punishment, as you would like to do. Your intentions, for budgetary reasons, will have a reverse effect. Theft and rape are not solved with an ankle bracelet, nor is the problem of radicalisation among Muslims. Ankle bands are a gift for the moving Eastern European thieves gangs. Those are not even my words, but those of Professor Brice De Ruyver and those of the Antwerp investigating judge Karel Van Cauwenberghe. Those Eastern European thieves gangs cannot even wear the anklet just because they have no address here. According to the Dutch example, prison time must be revalued, so that it has a dissuasive effect. This is the only way that the judiciary can regain credibility and our criminal courts can regain the respect they deserve. We therefore call for meaningful, humane punishment. Contrary to what some claim, prisons for the Flemish interest are not forgetting wells in which suspects or convicted persons have to rot. The vast majority of the prisoners will ever be released after serving the sentence. They must be prepared for reintegration into society. Prisons must indeed offer elementary comfort, but they must not be glorified boarding schools losing their terrifying character. The fact that the Flemish interest is advocating the enforcement of law and order through a tough approach to crime does not mean that we are simply in favour of draconian repression against all those who make a crooked pass. Repression is in many cases the best form of prevention. If potential criminals know that they have a great chance of a strong sanction when caught, they will be less likely to go down the wrong path. Fewer prisoners in prisons and therefore more commitment to alternative punishment and ankle ties should not be an end in themselves. On the contrary, there must be as many people in prisons as is required to ensure safety on the streets. Several studies have already shown that effective punishment requires an increase in prison capacity to at least 15 000 places. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the public authorities to guarantee the fundamental right to security by fighting all forms of crime vigorously and efficiently. The government must guarantee the same security to all citizens without distinction of rank or status. Therefore, people's safety must not be put at risk by savings. Safety is essential, not incidental. Having more regard to savings than safety is damaging both in the short and in the long term. The neglect of security, the inciting of even more crime, of even more foreign criminals, comes back like a boomerang. It will ultimately cost the government much more and that is just the opposite of your intention. The Flemish Interest cannot therefore support this draft. I hope that the major reform of the sentence, which is still to come during this legislature, will correct this. We will certainly be vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u148	Minister, in your view, the bill under consideration will speed up the proceedings and make them more effective, without compromising, you say, the quality with which justice is administered or without compromising the rights of the defence. It is true that this second bill says "pot-pourri II"—recognize that the term is unrelated to the content, except to understand that it may contain some false notes—on a list of four cited in the Justice Plan, reveals contradictions with this plan. It must be said that we would have hoped first to have knowledge of the fourth part, the one you are announcing for the end of the legislature and relating to prison policy, which should have been the cornerstone of the entire reform of the penal system. How to design a reform of criminal law without first addressing the major orientations that one wishes to pursue in the context of a new prison policy. So this is a first paradox, a first reason for regret and astonishment. Especially since two committees have been mandated, as has been recalled by other speakers. So that this draft is now put to the vote even before the committees have been able to deliver their conclusions, and this is probably a source of legal uncertainty. The main measures of your project are the extension of the limitation period, the limitation of the control of pre-trial detention, the reduction of the possibility of granting prison leave and leave, or the extension of the corrective penalties. Clearly, these measures will aggravate the overcrowding that you claim to be fighting in your Justice Plan, presented a year ago, and which had received an interested welcome from the members of the Justice Committee. Indeed, since Mrs Onkelinx, we had no longer had the right to a Minister of Justice who presented his political objectives with some consistency. I will always recognize you as having submitted a summary document. But why so much to get away from it? It was suggested that the Prisons Bill could have been adapted in the first place. In this way, you would have respected with a strong will your first, significant and courageous commitment – I recognize it – to reduce the prison population, in particular through alternative sentences. So here we are in front of a project that fits in with your statements of intent. Lastly, the Government would lastly call for the implementation of the law in principle of 12 January 2005 on the internal legal status of detainees, whose only articles on security, discipline and supervision had entered into force, to the detriment of the detention plan, which was aimed at maximizing the chances of the reintegration of detainees. This is therefore a serious breach, which has already been underlined and condemned by the Brussels Court of First Instance in a judgment of 4 October 2013. He rightly recalled that the executive branch was required to set the date of the coming into force of a law within a reasonable period of time. Today, too many laws – and, a fortiori, reform laws – come into force at the criminal level, in a broad sense, is postponed. It is true that, in considering this bill, several experts have been heard. It must be recognised that, unlike the first "pot-pourri I" package, they have exercised some influence, even if, for the most part, they have not always been heard. In this regard, I would like to point out that undertaking a reform with almost the entire judicial world against oneself - even if I admit that you have obtained satisfaction on certain ancillary points - is to take the risk that a law will remain a dead letter. You know very well that legal practitioners, and you remain a good one that you have provisionally abstracted from this role, always find the argument to limit the real scope desired by the legislator. I therefore table amendments and I prefer to comment on them rather than comment on all the findings that I share and which have already been expressed by other speakers. The first four amendments reject the new penalty of imprisonment from 30 to 40 years and, consequently, the increase in the ceiling of criminal penalties which the draft proposes to include in the Criminal Code. This increased sentence is contrary to the objectives of the Justice Plan. Yet you have not heard the strong criticisms of the Council of State and other authorities regarding criminal policy. However, the reduction of recidivism should be encouraged, as it is essential in that it tends to increase the security of citizens and prison staff. You considered it a priority, but today we do not see the translation of this concern into your bill. It turns out, as the adviser to the Brussels Court of Appeal, Mr Peter Hartoch, pointed out, that sanctions of more than 30 years have no meaning, since people in prison will sooner or later have to be released. Most scientific studies, focusing on the deterrent effect of the length of sentences on criminal behaviour, show that increasing the length of the sentence has no deterrent effect on behaviour. On the contrary! And I have known, as a legal practitioner, as a lawyer, people who have been subjected to very long periods of incarceration. They adopt, on their way out, despite attempts to reintegrate socio-occupational behaviours that are often seriously disturbed with psychological disorders, which are often irremediable. I could explain cases that I personally experienced as a young lawyer. As a result, very long prison sentences miss their goals of reintegration and protection of society. The amendment that I tabled in Article 6 is intended to preserve the maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years for crimes punishable by imprisonment of 20 to 30 years or more that have been corrected. It must be recognized that the inclusion of a sentence of 28 years – and we are asking ourselves what justifies this particular period – is not justified in that it creates a huge difference between the crimes punishable by 15 to 20 years' imprisonment that have been corrected and are therefore punishable by 15 years' imprisonment, and the crimes punishable by 20 to 30 years' imprisonment that have been corrected and are therefore punishable by 28 years' imprisonment, i.e. a difference of up to 13 years' imprisonment depending on the category of crimes punished and punishable by imprisonment. On the other hand, the difference between the maximum period of deprivation of liberty provided for before and after the correction of crimes punishable by 20 to 30 years' imprisonment and for crimes punishable by 30 to 40 years' imprisonment is minimal, i.e. two years. In the opinion of the Council of State and the experts interviewed, this small difference may lead the judges to hold the mitigating circumstances improperly. When I told you that legal practitioners always had the means to correct the errors of an ill-thought law, but often by using perhaps inappropriately certain concepts of law, it was to warn you against this ill-conceived and ill-conceived law as to the hierarchy of penalties. My amendment is, therefore, intended to preserve the proposed law from a possible appeal to the Constitutional Court for violation of section 10 of the Constitution, in that the small difference in sentence does not justify that certain crimes come out of the correctional court and others from the assize court. As for article 12 of the draft, I fully understand the objective of excluding particularly serious crimes from the possibility of receiving a working sentence. It should be borne in mind, however, that this increased impossibility of imposing alternative sentences to the prison sentence contravenes the principle that is now firmly upheld in the legal doctrine of individualization of sentence and constitutes interference in the work of judges, who are best placed to assess whether this type of sentence can be applied to a convicted person, in particular with a view to maximizing his or her chances of reintegration. My amendment therefore seeks to strike a balance by extending the ban on the imposition of a self-employment penalty not to those responsible for acts which would be punishable, if they were not transmuted into offences, by a maximum penalty of more than 20 years, but to 30 years' imprisonment. With regard to clause 59 of the bill, which extends the statute of limitations for public proceedings, I have already recalled in the context of the "pot-pourri I" bill that extending the statute of limitations nullifies the legislative objectives of the statute of limitations, namely the need to conduct a trial on the basis of well-founded evidence and to avoid miscarriages of justice. This prolongation will not necessarily be for the benefit of the victims, even if this is often invoked. This for two main reasons. First, the extension of the statute of limitations would require victims to establish the reality, nature or extent of the harm suffered when this proves to be more difficult, if not impossible, by the loss of evidence. Second, defendants will more often rely on exceeding the reasonable time limit to benefit from a reduction of the sentence, or even a simple conviction, or even the inadmissibility of the prosecution. I am therefore afraid that we will create for the victims a false hope of a certain and severe condemnation of society at the end of a procedure which has been carried out by extending the limitation period. I believe that it is sometimes more reasonable and acceptable for some victims to explain why the prosecutor's office, the investigative community, has not been able to establish in a certain way the truth or the search for the truth in particular circumstances rather than to create hope by extending the statute of limitations. To extend this period is to pursue proceedings without ever achieving a real result and, if an offender is identified, not to be given a certain sentence because he can rely on the European Court's case law on the reasonable period of time. I believe that at the end of such a procedure, frustration will be even greater than if there was the frankness to explain the reasons why sometimes justice cannot go beyond what is humanly possible for it to do. The extension of the mini-investigation to search, as proposed in article 63, is not acceptable in that it exacerbates the imbalance already existing between the prosecutor's office and the accused. I cannot say too much what the wisdom of our judicial system is between the function of the prosecutor's office and the function of the investigating judge. Mrs Özen rightly recalled this. It is this right of cross-examination between the prosecutor's office and the investigating judge that makes it possible to avoid excessive abuse of power in certain investigations. You will certainly have heard it from most of the magistrates. Everyone checks what the other person is doing in the exercise of his or her very discretionary powers. It should not be hidden; both the prosecutor's office and the investigating judge have discretionary powers. This cross-examination is part of our subtle balance in the organization of the investigation or investigation. Everything that will undermine this balance will cause our country's criminal justice system to lose its quality, which, however, is often cited as an example and serves as a reference for States seeking other balances within the judiciary. The balance of powers is not just a balance between the powers established (executive, judicial and legislative). It is also to have counter-powers within each power that avoids excesses. As the Association of Judges of the Association of Trade Unions pointed out during the hearings, it is an illusion that by redistributing the tasks between the prosecution and the investigating judges, the problem of understaffing will be solved. Unfortunately, prosecutors are not better accommodated than the judiciary is sitting on the issue of staffing management. Let us not talk about what we believe to be the profits in terms of budgetary savings. They're illusory. Even assuming that this would be demonstrated, which is not the case, would be unrelated to the protection of fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the current organization of the judiciary and the judiciary in criminal matters. With regard to the articles that tighten the conditions for the validity of the opposition, it is clear that dilatory oppositions must be avoided under the penalty of not being able to render justice within a reasonable time. It is an objective that we can share. But once again a kind of automaticity of the law is not desirable in this case: it must be left to the magistrate to assess whether the defect has been justified on grounds which can be invoked and also leave the possibility of exercising certain remedies. It is therefore this automatic character that you introduce by law to sanction the lack of force majeure justifying the opposition which is not acceptable. That also seems to me to have to be amended. My amendment aims to preserve the rights of the defence by deleting this article, which runs counter to the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, which has already held that the refusal to reopen proceedings which took place by default in the absence of any indication that the accused had renounced his right to appear is regarded as a flagrant denial of justice, which means clearly that it is still the right of the defence which must prevail over any other consideration of the effectiveness of the proceedings. As for the procedure for the prior recognition of guilt, it is indeed an orientation that my party has been calling for for for many years, in that it will speed up the processing of relatively simple cases and thus be able to contribute to the fight against the backlog of cases, particularly before the correctional courts. But the modalities deserve to be clearer. In particular, the person prosecuted must be given the time to decide whether or not to accept the legal qualifications and the penalties proposed. I think ten days is too short. My amendment therefore seeks to extend the time limit for reflection to 30 days. And believe me, with the delay of ten days, you will probably have little support for this new possibility of determining the outcome of the proceedings, whereas with the time of reflection and the persuasive work of counsel, which is decisive in convincing a suspect to agree to resort to this new procedure, it will be different. Let's not hide it, the role of counsel will be essential, it will take time to read the file and do its persuasion work. Justice will win. It is not the ten-day period that guarantees the effectiveness of the new procedure. I will end with the future of the Assize Court. I obviously share what has been said by several speakers in this rostrum. I cannot understand that from a majority who pride themselves on trying to bring justice as close as possible to the concerns of citizens. What was not often heard that the judiciary was too far away from the citizens' deep desire to understand the functioning of justice! I cannot understand then that those who want the judiciary to be more present and accountable to society are reducing the role of the assize court. It is true that the Court of Assizes has a logic of the conduct of the proceedings, of the procedure which remains atypical in relation to the so-called professional justice. It is true that the theatricalization or excessive mediatization of certain assize trials can lead – which some denounce – to too popular justice. All practitioners will tell you that, except in very exceptional cases, jurors in the assize court are always conscious and rigorously respected by all parties to the trial – except in very special circumstances – and that the very fact that justice is done by people drawn by lot, in cases that mark public opinion, is the very condition of society's collective adherence to justice. Some lawyers and magistrates say that professional magistrates have at least the knowledge of case law, they have the points of comparison to assess. I challenge those practitioners who would denounce the misuse or possible excesses of the court of assizes to make a comparative analysis of the sentences handed down by the jury of assize courts – certainly with the help of professional magistrates, which is a guarantee in our system and which could be strengthened – and to check whether there are such differences in the sentences handed down by the courts of assize in more or less comparable cases. A relative unity in the case law of the assize courts, although some say, is almost always true. As has been said, these courses remind us of what the work of justice is. Without this, there is no more work of justice. If the citizen does not have the profound conviction that justice is being done on his behalf, in the name of society, if this accession has disappeared – and we know today what divorce can be between citizens and the powers, the institutions – if the judiciary becomes, in the end, only an ordinary public service, trivialised, detached from the perception and understanding of the citizens, then I fear that your pot-pourri will give rise to the worst of the tintamars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u149	Let's start from the beginning. Good! Yes, Mr. Vuye! You learn fast. As I have already said, the PTB considers it necessary to reform the judicial system. But there's a "but," minister. These reforms must be carried out in the interests of the people. Unfortunately, we don't see this in the pots-porry series I, II,... so think of the Ripoux 1, 2, 3. They're movies. Under the guise of efficiency, pots have the real aim of reducing the already largely underfunded budget of Justice, making access to justice more difficult for citizens and limiting democratic rights. The PTB has already voted against potpourri I: sorry. Indeed, this law limits access to justice by making it more expensive and more complex. Potpourri II continues in this undemocratic way. First, it introduces a more repressive policy. Secondly, it degrades the rights of the defence. Thirdly, it strengthens the executive to the detriment of the judiciary. Fourthly, it provides for a blinded court of seats. It's a good summary of the law, I think. Do you understand me? I therefore assume that you will ask the majority to vote against it. The PTB is far from the only one expressing such criticism. First, there were the objections of the Council of State. Secondly, we were able to hear in committee the virulent remarks of the Bar Associations, the League of Human Rights, academics, investigating judges and other members of the judiciary, who did not hesitate to vote against this reform. There was even talk of'removal of civilization', an expression already mentioned by some colleagues. Let us review the four points. This project first of all defends a more repressive policy, as evidenced by the prolongation of prison sentences. Our country has a long history of prison overcrowding. A well-considered reform of criminal law could address it. Moreover, Mr. Minister, you said you wanted to get on with it. It is therefore quite surprising that the "pot-pourri II" lengthens sentences. I quote the President of the League for Human Rights: "Correctional penalties have already increased from a maximum of ten years' imprisonment to a maximum of twenty years when the 2009 law was amended. Today, the government wants to extend them to 40 years. The maximum prison sentence will thus be quadrupled within a few years." This more repressive policy also translates into longer pre-trial detention. Indeed, from the third decision of the board, it would reach two months instead of one. Second, the rights of the defence are undermined, since the "pot-pourri II" introduces a reform of the procedure before the substantive judge. It is therefore a fundamental right that is being violated in the name of budgetary efficiency. Criminalist Walter Van Steenbrugge writes on his blog: "Don't let efficiency stifle fundamental rights. This is precisely where it hurts, because it goes from bad to worse with regard to the protection of human rights. I expect a number of serious convictions from Belgium in the near future." Minister, expect our country's condemnations from the European Court of Human Rights. I think, in this case, of the largely insufficient possibilities of contradiction in criminal proceedings, of the overwhelming power that sticks to the ink of the police pen, of the enormous inequality between the public prosecutor's office and the other parts of the trial. The third criticism concerns the strengthening of the executive to the detriment of the judiciary. The "pot-pourri II" extends the possibility of intervention by the investigating judge to a mini-investigation. The Ligue des droits de l'Homme observes that the powers of the investigating judge may once again be eroded to the benefit of the prosecutor's office. There, we wonder about the government's motivations. Is there any attack on this fundamental right just for budgetary reasons or is there more than that? It is not also a question of realizing this old aspiration of the public prosecutor to reduce or even abolish the role of the investigating judge. It was an old claim that had already been made at the time of Franchimont. We're wondering if it doesn't end today. Finally, I come to the de facto abolition of the court of seats. This is perhaps the most controversial point among the actors in the world of justice. One of the opponents of this measure, criminalist Jef Vermassen, who attended nearly a hundred assize trials, explains why they are important: "A sitting trial is the only time when the citizen has contact with justice. This goes further than reporting in the media. Thanks to the popular jury, there is active involvement." In addition, the separation of seats endangers the quality of the training. The same Mr. Vermassen expressed concern that the handling of extremely sensitive cases such as homicides might be dealt with expeditiously, not thoroughly, by the judges of the correctional courts, as had been the case with the correction of the attempted homicide. He also adds: "Maybe we should talk about the big tax files that hang around for ten years in order to reach a statute of limitations; for me this is the real waste." In conclusion, the PTB is convinced that there needs to be profound changes in the area of justice, but the "pot-pourri" is absolutely not, and that is little to say, the way we want. Action must be taken against crime, but the aim must be the resocialization of the convicted person and comprehensive reparation for the victim. For this to happen, a deep reflection must be put in place, not an expeditious law which will only result in an increase in repression, moreover, without great efficiency. This same repression is not applicable when it comes to white-collar crime. Even the N-VA through Mr. Vuye talked about class justice. This is the case since for large fraudsters there is the system of criminal transactions. Minister, be assured, I'm not going to talk to you about diamonds! We then criticize this logic of austerity that has won the cases of justice. It jeopardizes fundamental rights such as the right to a defence, the right to a fair trial, the right to a prosecution and defence and the de facto abolition of the assize court. Finally, there is an additional problem at the democratic level, namely, an increasingly strong public prosecutor to the detriment of the investigating judge. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that the PTB will unfortunately not be able to support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you will not insist that I repeat all the answers I have already given in committee here in plenary at this advanced hour. However, I would like to say that I have responded very well to many of your arguments. I am grateful to the majority and to the opposition for the good cooperation we have achieved in committee, including in connection with the hearings. I have a few more things to add, but that won't take long. As far as prison overcrowding and the prison system are concerned, I would like to refer to the discussions that took place yesterday, at length, in the committee and the report on it. I believe that we have had a very good discussion and I must tell you that under no circumstances would my ambition to reduce this overcrowding and to reach a sustainable population of less than 10,000 prisoners be no longer present or that I will no longer achieve it. You all know that, in order to allow for widespread correction, penalties had to be laid down in cases of correction which were greater than those previously known. But you also all know that it is not because the maximum is important that the judge necessarily pronounces this maximum. As there is already a long tradition, Mrs.Onkelinx, to correct even important crimes – I remember the law of 2009 that allowed the correction of very important crimes – I think you can be comfortable with that. As far as the changes in balance are concerned, I would first of all like to draw attention to the fact that, for me, a lot of balances have changed in favour of the accused. Take, for example, the question of time limits. The parole board will be held as well as the defendant's attorney by those time limits. Of course, the defendant's attorney will always have the final say. Take, for example, the question of appeal. It can be a bit of a school, as can the conclusions we organized in potpourri I seem to be schools. However, Mrs Van Cauter has quite rightly stressed that the limitation of the appeal by the accused does not allow the prosecution to return to a number of matters which one wishes to preserve in the subsequent appeal. That further appeal can now be withdrawn, which is also a positive note for the accused. A lot has been said about the resistance. I can imagine that on that point the view is that the rights have deteriorated. However, I have to say that I do not understand that correctly. A absenteeism must only have a valid reason. That can't be so hard, can it? Moreover, the profession is always possible. There has been talk of the guildy pleasure, which is entirely in favour of the defendant. He shouldn't accept it. He can accept it. He will also in many cases ask himself because it is in his favor. In all these measures, therefore, I do not feel that the rights of the defence are being compromised. There may be a different balance from the previous balance. The balance has changed. However, it is often more in favour of the accused than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u151	Mr Brotcorne, you have recited very well what I always say. With regard to mini-instruction and seating, I would like to reiterate the fact that the seat has the opportunity to do what it wishes in this case. It is therefore the seat that is responsible, and not the legislator that requires it to do certain things. The extension of the mini-investigation to the search, I do not feel it as a limitation of the rights of the accused or as something that, in case the investigating judge sees it as an advantage, he can always seize the investigation. Often, the search does not produce results that would justify a judicial investigation. We all know that, ladies and gentlemen. Those of you who are lawyers know that. I therefore ask you not to say that in this case the rights of the accused are limited. As far as the sittings are concerned, I understand that we are not necessarily happy with the fact that the indictment chamber will be in control of cases where there will be correction or not. But you know very well, Mr Brotcorne, that it is always possible, when mitigating circumstances are not accepted by the indictment chamber, to plead them in the assize court. There is no incompatibility. I think I understand that you thought there would be one. With regard to the assistance procedure, I would like to say once again that it seems to me to be an added value that a great deal of correction and appeal is possible, whereas this is not possible in the case of assists. I know that it is said that I could have entered the appeal, I have heard that correctly and I will come back to that later. As far as I am concerned, this law is perfectly capable of being evaluated if it were to be found that the courts in the open debate and the taking of evidence would not have the attention we expect from them. I understand that remark very well, and I am fully prepared, as for the public prosecutors, to go into this in greater depth on the occasion of an evaluation. Perhaps I should say something about the entry into force of the law on the participation of the seat in the debate on the question of guilt. You know that until now the seat has only taken part in the debate on the level of punishment and not in the debate on the question of guilt. Mrs De Wit, you asked what would happen to the right of transition if there was an assistive procedure that suddenly got caught up in a problem relating to the question of guilt. Ladies and gentlemen, let us assume for a moment that the law will be published on 2 February, then the provisions amending the debate on the question of guilt will enter into force on 12 February. Due to the immediate entry into force of the law on 12 February, the seat will have to take part in the debate on the question of guilt, if that debate takes place on 12 February or later. The only thing that could be problematic, but I think it is difficult to imagine in practice, is that a matter would have been under consideration before 12 February and it would continue after 12 February. It is sufficient for the Presidents of our Assenhoven to point out that they must avoid such a combination of the new and old law when considering the matter, but that is a rare problem, I think. Soon a new BIM and BOM bill will be presented to the Chamber. At that point it will be clear whether Mr Van Hecke can confirm his words, namely that we will further restrict the rights of the person examined or the person to be followed. I don't believe that. If necessary, to the extent that we have amended it, we have gone into your amendments and have accompanied the usual method with the need to obtain the agreement of the Head of Service. So I do not think you can complain too much about that. Mrs Özen, I have heard you say, I believe, but perhaps I have misunderstood, that in the case of a prisoner without a residence permit in the country, what is wrongly called an illegal person, there would be no way to give him an exit permit in case of illness. That's not true. It is perfectly possible to give these people an exit permit in case this is justified by family reasons or medical reasons. It is included in the draft which is being put to your vote for the time being. Ladies and gentlemen, I sometimes find it difficult to understand why people say that we liked the justice plan, but we do not like it. I'm made to understand that I'm kind of incoherent. I don't understand. In fact, in the Justice Plan, I announced the "pot-pourri" projects. I even said where the arrangement would be, what a laugh, Mr Van Hees! You don't look so much like Philippe Noiret, but you're the one who makes this comparison! I've registered it every time. With this in mind, Mr Brotcorne, I am not guilty of what you insinuate. In any case, I would like to continue with potpourri III in committee next week. It will discuss internment. I hope that people will be more interested to see that it is moving quickly, because it should have entered into force for some time now. So I am doing my utmost to bring it into operation. Potpourri IV is coming too, but we are preparing the jump. I have promised debates on a number of issues. You heard me right. Mr Cheron, I promised that discussions would be held on issues such as the future of the investigation procedures for heavy crimes. Be assured that these projects are progressing well and that I will keep the promises I made in the Justice Plan. One more word, Mr Cheron – because you were very brief, and I thank you for that. The circular is ready and will be presented to the Council of Ministers next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u152	Are Members asking for the floor for a reply? Mrs Özen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u153	Minister, thank you for your explanation. You have no doubt, I do not share all your views. We have had the opportunity to carry out constructive work in committee, during debates that have lasted whole days. You say that obviously there are changes. You cannot be blamed for this: you dare change! But you say that balance is always to the advantage of the defendant and, on some particular points, I do not share your point of view at all. How is a bimonthly appearance of an inmate still presumed innocent to his advantage? How will the removal of the nullities that are there, in the case of telephone taps for example, to guarantee our most expensive rights be positive? How will this bring a positive balance for the citizen? How will the increase in the length of sentences have a positive effect on the prisoner and on society? I look forward to your "pot-pourri III" in June. We're not guessing. You're telling us things are in preparation. I prefer to discuss texts after I have had full knowledge of them. In terms of chronology, there is really a big problem in your methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u154	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u155	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1418/16) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1418/16) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law amending criminal law and criminal proceedings and laying down various provisions on justice." The Court of Justice of the European Communities decided to stay proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling on the application of Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty. The draft law has 227 articles. The bill has 227 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u156	• 138 - Marco Van Hees cs (1418/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u157	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 145 Stefaan Van Hecke (1418/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u158	• 133 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1418/11) • 144 – Ozlem Özen cs (1418/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u159	• 124 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1418/11) • 139 - Marco Van Hees cs (1418/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u160	• 130 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1418/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u161	• 125 - Laurette Onkelinx cs (1418/11) • 136 - Marco Van Hees cs (1418/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u162	• 137 - Marco Van Hees cs (1418/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u163	• 146 Stefaan Van Hecke (1418/14) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) • 147 Stefaan Van Hecke (1418/14) • 148 Stefaan Van Hecke (1418/14) • 149 Stefaan Van Hecke (1418/14) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 228(n) • 119 - Dirk Van der Maelen (1418/11) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u164	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 to 9, 11, 12, 17, 18, 20, 23, 59, 63, 79, 83, 84, 92, 94, 97, 99, 100, 121, 127, 128, 136, 137, 139, 145, 197, 222.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u165	Adoptés article par article: les articles 1, 10, 13 to 16, 19, 21, 22, 24 to 58, 60 to 62, 64 to 78, 80 to 82, 85 to 91, 93, 95, 96, 98, 101 to 120, 122 to 126, 129 to 135, 138, 140 to 144, 146 to 196, 198 to 221, 223 to 227. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u166	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Jan Vercammen and Mr Dirk Janssens) on the promotion of research into immunotherapy and access to therapy for cancer patients, No. 1605/1 - the motion for a resolution (Doc. Els Van Hoof and Nathalie Muylle) on the reduction of the use of tobacco and cigarettes, No. 1614/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the effective fight against harmful alcohol consumption, No. 1615/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u167	- the bill (Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten and Dirk Van Mechelen, Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Catherine Fonck and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the law of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, No. 1616/1. Sent to the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2016, I also propose that you take into account - the motion for a resolution (Ms Ine Somers and MM. Jan Vercammen and Dirk Janssens) to stimulate research on immunotherapy and to improve the access of cancer patients to therapy, No. 1605/1. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Els Van Hoof and Nathalie Muylle) to reduce the consumption of tobacco and cigarettes, No 1614/1. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Catherine Fonck) on the effective fight against harmful alcohol consumption, No 1615/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u168	- the bill (Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, MM. Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Dirk Van Mechelen, Ms Meryame Kitir and Catherine Fonck and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, No. 1616/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u169	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u170	We agreed in the Conference of Presidents to call for urgency for proposal No 1616. As everyone agrees, that will be the case. Mr Cheron, the request for urgent action was made in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1260/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1260/5) Mrs Pehlivan voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1381/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1381/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1416/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1416/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u174	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1496/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1496/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u177	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1499/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1499/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 125 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1513/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1513/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1514/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1514/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1528/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1528/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u181	Vote on Amendment No 90 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 2.(1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 90 by Olivier Maingain to delete Article 2.(1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 107 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 2. (1418/11) V Amendment No 107 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 2. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Mrs Gabriels voted against. Vote on Amendment No 91 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 3. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 91 by Olivier Maingain to delete Article 3. ( 1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 108 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 3. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 108 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 3. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u182	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 92 by Olivier Maingain to delete Article 4. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 92 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 4. (1418/10) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u183	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 109 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 4. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 109 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 4. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u184	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 93 by Olivier Maingain to delete Article 5. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 93 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 5. (1418/10) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u185	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 94 by Olivier Maingain to delete Article 6. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 94 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 6. (1418/10) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u186	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 110 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 6. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 110 by Christian Brotcorne for the deletion of Article 6. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u187	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 138 by Marco Van Hees cs to delete Article 6. (1418/12) Vote on Amendment No 138 by Marco Van Hees cs to omit Article 6. [[(]] 1418/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u188	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 111 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 7. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 111 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 7. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u189	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 112 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 8. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 112 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 8. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u190	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 113 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 9. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 113 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 9. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u191	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 114 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 11. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 114 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 11. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u192	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 115 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 12. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 115 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 12. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 95 by Olivier Maingain on Article 12. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 95 by Olivier Maingain to Article 12. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 116 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 17. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 116 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 17. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 117 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 18. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 117 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Article 18. (1418/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u193	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 141 by Ozlem Özen cs on Article 20. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 141 by Ozlem Özen cs to Article 20. (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[17]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 122 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on Article 23. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 122 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 23. (1418/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u194	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 96 by Olivier Maingain on Article 59. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 96 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 59. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[19]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 59 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 59 was adopted. Mr Brecht Vermeulen voted against. Vote on Amendment No 97 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 63. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 97 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 63. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 63 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 63 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 142 by Ozlem Özen to insert an Article 63/1(n). (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 142 by Ozlem Özen to insert an Article 63/1(n). (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[35]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Özlem Özen and Mr Willy Demeyer voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 100 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 79. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 100 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 79. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 79 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 79 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 98 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 83. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 98 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 83. (1418/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u195	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 83 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 83 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 99 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 84. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 99 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 84. (1418/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u196	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 84 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 84 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 101 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 92. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 101 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 92. (1418/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u197	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 92 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 92 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 145 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 94. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 145 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Rule 94. (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 94 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 94 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 120 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an article 96/1(n). (1418/11) Vote on amendment No. 120 by Peter Vanvelthoven to insert an Article 96/1(n). (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 24 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 102 by Olivier Maingain on Article 97. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 102 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 97. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 103 by Olivier Maingain on Article 97. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 103 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 97. (1418/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u198	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 133 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 97. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 133 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Rule 97. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[47]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 144 by Özlem Özen cs on Article 97. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 144 by Özlem Özen cs to Rule 97. (1418/14) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u199	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 97 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 97 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 128 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 99. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 128 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 99. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 99 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 99 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 129 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 100. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 129 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 100. (1418/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u200	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 100 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 100 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 143 of Özlem Özen cs to insert Article 120/1(n). (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 143 by Özlem Özen cs to insert an Article 120/1(n). (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 104 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 121. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 104 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 121. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 36 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 124 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to omit Article 121. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 124 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 121.(1418/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u201	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 139 by Marco Van Hees cs to omit Article 121. (1418/12) Vote on Amendment No 139 by Marco Van Hees cs to delete Rule 121.(1418/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u202	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 121 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 121 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 105 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 127. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 105 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 127. ( 1418/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u203	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 130 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to omit Article 127. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 130 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 127. (1418/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u204	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 127 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 127 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 106 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 128. (1418/10) Vote on Amendment No 106 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 128. (1418/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 48 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 125 from Laurette Onkelinx cs to the omission of Article 128. [[(]] 1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 125 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 128.(1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 136 by Marco Van Hees cs to omit Article 128. (1418/12) Vote on Amendment No 136 by Marco Van Hees cs to delete Rule 128. (1418/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u205	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 128 was adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected under Rule 128. Vote on Amendment No 126 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 136. (1418/12) Vote on Amendment No 126 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 136. (1418/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 36 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u206	Vote on Amendment No 137 by Marco Van Hees cs to delete Rule 136. (1418/12) Vote on Amendment No 137 by Marco Van Hees cs to omit Article 136. (1418/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 136 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 136 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 131 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 137. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 131 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 137. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 137 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 137 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 132 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 139. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 132 of Laurette Onkelinx cs leaving out Article 139. (1418/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u207	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 139 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 139 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 118 by Christian Brotcorne to delete Rule 145. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 118 by Christian Brotcorne to omit Article 145. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[35]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 145 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 145 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 127 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete Rule 197. (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 127 of Laurette Onkelinx cs for the deletion of Article 197. (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 146 by Stefaan Van Hecke to delete Rule 197. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 146 by Stefaan Van Hecke to the exclusion of Article 197. (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 197 was adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 197 was adopted. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 147 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Rule 222. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 147 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 222. (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 148 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Rule 222. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 148 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 222. (1418/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 149 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Rule 222. (1418/14) Vote on Amendment No 149 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 222. (1418/14) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u208	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 222 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 222 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 119 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert an Article 228(n). (1418/11) Vote on Amendment No 119 by Dirk Van der Maelen to insert an Article 228(n). (1418/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 49 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 128 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1418/17) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1418/17) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (No)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-28-54-plenair-ip096x.u210	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 1 February 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of February 1, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 February 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 4 February 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
