ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u1	Madam President, Minister, there is currently a shortage of protein sources for animal feed in the European Union. Researchers at the University of Ghent have recently discovered the interest of black soldier fly larvae, very rich in protein, as a new form of chicken feeding. These larvae are an ecological and economical alternative to traditional protein sources and complement grain feeding. Moreover, they have several interests: they reproduce at the speed of lightning, have a short life expectancy, do not need to be fed or maintained and do not transmit any disease. The first phase of the test was successful. However, additional tests have yet to be carried out. Two interesting objectives would be achieved if the experiment worked. Residual organic matter would be recycled rather than landfilled and feed for livestock would be at lower cost. We know that, in general, agricultural producers are constantly looking for alternatives to maintain or improve the quality of their products while reducing their production costs and their impact on the environment. This is particularly true in the livestock sector, where animal food can account for between 30% and 50% of the costs, depending on the type of production. This therefore opens up a future path. However, this would require amending legislation on insect feeding and verifying food safety. Minister, how do you look at this new form of diet? Do you have more information about this and its results? In view of the current agricultural crisis, will Belgium be interested in this project in order to reduce the production costs of our farmers? What would be the disadvantages and possible difficulties of this new project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u2	Madam President, honourable Member, in recent years the use of insects by humans and their use in animal feed has been promoted by various organisations and by a number of research projects. However, recent scientific opinions, both at Belgian and European level, highlight a number of questions about potential microbiological and chemical risks. I refer in particular to the joint opinion of the Supreme Council of Health and the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA published in 2014 and to the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) issued on 8 October 2015. According to the precautionary principle, we need to be very careful about this. Indeed, the problem is complex, considering the number of insect species and the diversity of potential foods. I will only be in favour of the use and progressive authorisation of certain insects grown under specific conditions in animal feed if all opinions, both scientific and economic, converge towards this option. In addition, the limits and requirements of the European regulatory framework must also be taken into account. For example, the use of insects is currently prohibited in the feed of farmed animals by European regulations which very strictly regulate the use of animal proteins as a result of the well-known bovine spongiform encephalopathy epizootic disease. Currently, insects are only allowed for pet feeding, such as insectivorous birds and possibly dogs and cats. The relaxation of European rules on the use of animal proteins is only possible under conditions strictly scientifically validated in order to ensure the safety of the food chain. In addition, the feeding of insects themselves is currently restricted to materials of plant origin. Kitchen waste, slurry or compost, which are potentially insect-recoverable resources, is currently prohibited by EU feed legislation. With this in mind, I support the initiative of my Flemish counterpart Joke Schauvliege, who has set up an insect task force involving all stakeholders: industry, economic actors, research institutes and the authorities. This approach, which also involves experts from my administrations, allows for the exchange of information on scientific progress while keeping interested persons informed of the regulations in force. Finally, let us not forget that there are other ways to ensure a "protein" supply for animal feed. I am thinking in particular of the cultivation of protein crops such as peas. Support measures are thus provided for under the Common Agricultural Policy to develop the European Union's protein autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u3	Minister, thank you for your very specific answers. It's a new market, like soy 20 years ago or algae 10 years ago. I understand that research is moving forward and that we need to legislate gradually. It is a precautionary principle that must be respected. However, the course of nine billion human beings in 2050 could be crossed. That's why we need to change our eating habits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u4	We'll be nine billion seven hundred million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u5	I'm not going to expand the debate. If insects are used as food for humans for a period of time, they can be recognized. I have the impression that your approach differs depending on whether they are used for food or feed. Perhaps the storage conditions are different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u6	In this case, it is a matter of animal feed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u7	Yes, we were talking about chickens. It is true that in Belgium we have manufacturers of pasta based on flourworms. They're delicious. I advise you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u8	Minister, a lot of farmers are facing problems with resources to feed livestock. Given the impossibility of feeding too many animals with the sole resources of the farm and the forage stored in poor conditions, farms have become highly dependent on the agri-food industries in terms of inputs, while the latter are increasingly expensive. This dependence on large-scale monoculture has very serious human, environmental and health consequences, as in the example of soybeans, the main source of protein for our livestock, imported mainly from the north and south. In the face of this system, a solution exists: food autonomy, which uses modern methods and a scientific approach. It reduces production costs while controlling the quality of livestock feed and ensuring perfect traceability of products coming out of the farm. It also has environmental benefits: transport is minimal compared to imported soybeans, and the use of synthetic fertilizers and plant protection products can also be reduced. Food autonomy is a major step towards sustainable agriculture; it is a soil-based agriculture that is more efficient, self-sustaining and environmentally friendly. However, the introduction of some of these techniques requires adaptation of infrastructure and equipment as well as of working time. I'm thinking of storage places, fences, roads, ferries, machines, etc. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr. Minister, these few questions. How do you look at this solution? How can Belgium make farmers aware of this more ecological and economic alternative? What support can it provide to the latter? What measures can be put in place to facilitate the application of this alternative? What would be the disadvantages and possible difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u9	Dear colleague, I consider your question with great interest. I am in favour of a number of developments, including techniques that bring agri-food self-sufficiency to our farms, which shorten the cycle and participate in sustainable agriculture. Our farmers themselves are very sensitive to a number of things that you are referring to in your question. We must, of course, ensure that these various elements are part of economic and social feasibility for our farmers. I am there within the limits of my powers. I am fully prepared to make my modest contribution to this type of reflection. However, I must point out to you that the various points you are referring to, such as investment aid, the terms of the CAP and other provisions of this nature, are now of regional competence. I must therefore confine myself to general elements of reflection, since your specific questions fall within the functional competence of my colleagues and colleagues responsible for agriculture at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. The road to autonomy will be gradually and will also go through the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u11	Questions Nos 9875 and 10226 are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u12	Madam President, Minister, the consumer organization Test-Achats has published the results of its study on the presence of pesticides on apples and pears sold in our supermarkets. The results are eloquent: only six fruit out of the forty tested had no traces of pesticides, while two fruit contained traces of pesticides whose use is now supposed to be banned. Even more concerned, the study found that children's products such as children's apples or fried tomatoes contain many pesticide residues, up to five different varieties for a single product. Finally, the study shows that organic labels do not guarantee the total absence of pesticides. Although the fruits analysed did not exceed the legal limits allowed, the fact remains that this massive presence of pesticides is cause for concern. As the study points out and while our fellow citizens are being encouraged to eat five fruits and vegetables a day, these small amounts ingested daily can accumulate in the body to ultimately achieve a more dangerous level for health. Minister, have you been aware of the study that I am referring to? What conclusions do you draw? To the extent that the effects of such pesticide cocktails remain unknown, like the long-term effects of individual pesticides, the authors of the study regret that pesticide legislation is not more stringent, especially with regard to food for children. Minister, what answer do you give to this reflection? Are you considering amending the current legislation to make it more stringent? Finally, the authors caution against TTIP, as pesticide standards are much less stringent in the United States than in the European Union. What guarantees can you provide to reassure you on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u13	Mr Minister, I am going a little wider than just apples and pears. I take the whole range of fruit and vegetables with me in my speech. Test-Purchasing has examined 52 samples of oranges, grapes, mango... and passion fruit. In eight out of ten samples remains of pesticides were found. These are limits that are exceeded. Belgium appears to score poorly compared to Italy, Portugal and Spain, where Test-Achats did the same research. Of course, this is no reason to eat less fruit. It merely indicates that agricultural standards are not always respected. Hence my questions. How many checks does Belgium carry out on fruit and vegetables every year? Can you give me a detailed overview of this per fruit and per year? How many sanctions have been allocated on the basis of checks for exceeding those limits? Will the government invest in further research into the long-term effects and effects of a combination of pesticides? There is little known about this. At the moment, the limit values we know mainly take into account criteria for adults. Does Belgium intend to take into account the impact on children in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, you can count on me to pay a great deal of attention to the risks posed by phytopharmaceutical products, both for consumers, users and the environment. I have, of course, taken note of the recent study on pesticide residues in pome fruit carried out by the consumer organisation Test-Achats. The Test Purchasing study shows that 85% of the 40 apples and pears analysed show at least a trace of pesticides, but that all these samples complied with the maximum residue limits laid down in European legislation, which is good news. At this stage, I would like to recall that these residue limits are set in relation to toxicological analyses but also on the basis of the application of good agricultural practice, i.e. the minimum quantities of product to be applied in order to achieve the desired result. They are therefore stricter than standards related solely to consumer protection. These limits take into account children's exposure to all foods. Exposure to residues is verified for 27 different diets, including 9 for children. A maximum residue level shall be established only if it has been established that the toxicological values are not exceeded for any of these 27 regimes. In addition, for specific formulae for cereals-based infants and baby food, EU legislation provides for very strict specific standards. Foods that do not meet these maximum residue limits cannot be placed on the market. I stress that these maximum residue limits for the production of European foodstuffs also apply, Mr Senesael, to imported foodstuffs. In this regard, TTIP will not change or change anything. TTIP does not aim, and we must be very vigilant in this regard, to reduce our health standards. This is clearly mentioned in the mandate given to the European Commission. Let us return to the analytical results reported by Test-Achats. These are similar to the results established by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (FSA). Between 2012 and 2014, the BFSA carried out 297 analyses on apples and pears samples under its pesticide residues monitoring programme. Eighty-three percent of the samples contain one or more residues. A single sample, i.e. 0,3% of all samples tested, did not comply with the residue limit laid down in European legislation. Eighty-three percent contain residues, but only 0.3 percent were above the European limit. My analysis of these results is that producers generally use plant protection products at their disposal to protect their crops. At the same time, residues are found, but a very low rate of exceedance of limits is observed. This also indicates that these products appear to be managed within producer limits. Of course, all overtaking is too much. In order to improve these results, and within the framework of the pesticide reduction programme, we have of course taken a series of measures, including the introduction of phytolicence, a compulsory certificate for the sale, the professional use of plant protection products, and the requirement for continuing training in order to raise awareness and, above all, improve the use of these products. The article from Test-Achats also highlights the presence of residue traces in apples and pears from organic farming. This can be explained, without justification, by the fact that certain substances are authorised for the treatment of apple trees or pear trees as no example of copper, a substance which is therefore found in the form of residues. It could also be fruit contact with surfaces or tools treated with biocides or, Madam President, contamination from nearby plots. It should be noted that the samples of apples and pears organically analysed in recent years by the AFSCA did not show traces of pesticide residues, in any case, detectable traces. The field of multiple residues should be studied more thoroughly. The European Food Authority is currently developing a methodology. In the Annual Report 2011 on residues, EFSA conducted a study on the acute risk of multiple residues present in pears. That food was chosen because it contains many multiple residues. The Authority found that 1 364 samples of pears in a single case exceeded the toxicological reference values due to the presence of multiple residues. That result is reassuring, but it should not prevent us from making progress in this area. As soon as this methodology is finalized, I will analyse it in detail with a view to proposing further amendments to the current legislation. In conclusion, at European level – you have witnessed and informed, Madam President – I have been the spokesman for a very firm Belgian position on this matter. As far as the answers to Ms. Lalieux are concerned, I suggest that they be forwarded to her because I still had a number of clarifications to provide. I wouldn't want to lengthen my remarks any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u15	We can't do it. Technically, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u16	Minister, thank you for all the explanations provided. I remain more dubious than you about the results that Test-Achats presented to us. I would like to recall the increase in daily consumption of fruit and vegetables. We have not yet analysed the health effects of this cumulation. I agree with you that explanation is not justifiable. That is why you are not against the amendment of the current legislation, if necessary. I would also like to thank you for your analysis of TTIP. I remain more reserved than you when it comes to importing products. You say that the European threshold cannot be increased at the level of public health and health. I think the experiments will prove the opposite. I hope, however, that I am wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u17	Madam President, Minister, you say that we can be reassured because the European limit values on toxicity are not exceeded but are respected. That may be true, but that is no reason for me not to be more ambitious as a minister. We know very well that Europe is always very minimalist in applying the precautionary principle, and that principle is absolutely not of great importance. It's not because something isn't toxic that it's healthy. It's not because something isn't toxic that it's safe. I thought I'd add to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u18	That's right. Non-toxic one day does not mean non-toxic always.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u19	Question No 9164 by Mr Delizée is postponed at his request. As Mrs Jiroflée is in another committee, we could perhaps put her questions to the table pending her return. Question No 9838 by Mr Calomne is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u20	Mr Minister, I have a question in response to some of the reports that I received from fellow OCMW Chairmen on an interpretation problem, as the law is not so clear about the installation premium either. Under certain conditions, the law provides for an installation premium to be granted where a homeless person loses his status by involving a resident as a main residence. In addition to homeless persons, ex-asylum seekers and minors are also eligible. The installation premium is in itself a very good one. It should be able to provide a number of basic items, so that the person in question can install himself in an empty house by providing them with the necessary furniture and furniture. Depending on the administrative situation of the homeless person, there are three different provisions. First of all, there is Article 14 (3) of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration, which states that the beneficiary of the living wage who loses his status as a homeless person by involving a resident serving him as a main residence is entitled once in his life to an installation premium. Secondly, there is Article 57a of the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on Public Centres for Social Welfare and the Royal Decree of 21 September 2004 granting the installation premium by the Public Centre for Social Welfare to persons who receive their status as homeless losers and not a living wage. Finally, we granted Article 5 of the Ministerial Decree of 30 January 1995 on the reimbursement by the State of the cost of services provided by the Public Social Welfare Centres to a needy person who does not have Belgian nationality and who is not registered in the population register. Why do I call them all now? There is an important difference in this legislation. Where in the RMI Act the installation premium is an individual right which any homeless person who fulfils the conditions can enjoy, regardless of whether or not he is going to live with another person who is also entitled to the installation premium, the organic law, on the other hand, grants a single installation premium when several entitled persons move in together. Mr Minister, why are several installation premiums granted under the RMl law in the case of cohabitation? How do you explain that difference? We note that this continues to create confusion in practice. Is it not appropriate to align the different regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u21	Mrs Van Peel, there are three conditions for entitlement to an installation premium. Firstly, does the person receive a living wage, another income from a social security or social assistance system or an income lower than his fictional category wage plus 10%? Secondly, does the person in question lose the status of homeless person by engaging in a residence which serves as his main residence? Thirdly, has the person concerned never received an installation premium? Your question concerns essentially the second condition concerning the status of homeless people. For the purpose of granting an installation premium, a person shall be regarded as homeless if he does not have his own place of residence, has no means of taking care of it himself and therefore has no place of residence or if he or she temporarily resides in a home, pending his or her availability of his or her own place of residence. A recognised refugee who does not have his/her own place of residence and is therefore temporarily taken care of, for example in a local reception initiative, with family or friends etc., only meets the definition of "roofless' if he/she is also needy. In order to be considered homeless, therefore, the working refugee should not have the means to provide his own residence. A working refugee may therefore be entitled to an installation premium, but the OMCW will check, on a case-by-case basis, by means of a social investigation, as is the case for all dossiers, whether the conditions for granting the installation premium have been met. As Mrs van Peel said, there are three types of premiums for different categories of persons, depending on the legislation applicable to them. One of the objectives of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration was to ensure the individualisation of rights. Everyone must have the right to social integration, regardless of their family situation. This is why, for example, a young person who still lives with his parents may be entitled to social integration, provided that all the conditions are met. For this reason, every adult may qualify for the premium if the family is homeless. In the case of social services, on the other hand, which is enshrined in the organic law of July 1976, it is up to everyone to guarantee a decent life. A premium is granted so that the family can live in dignity. Under both laws, each beneficiary is entitled to a premium only once in his or her life. The installation premium is 1 133.85 euros, both for the law on the right to social integration and for the organic law. This amount is equal to the amount of category 3 "persons living together with a minor child" in the law on the right to social integration. I conclude by referring to the government agreement which provides that the government, in consultation with the sector, will examine the convergence between living wages and the equivalent living wage in order to achieve a more coherent system. Such convergence between living wage and its equivalent will also have to be analysed with regard to the installation premium in order to achieve a more coherent system here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your long answer, but I do feel that I have missed a piece or that you have not said something. Just so we're clear, I'm not questioning the installation premium at all. On the contrary, I think that this is a very good way of doing things that I use myself on a daily basis. The two articles, one in the RMI law and one in the organic law, say something else. Take the case of two asylum seekers who leave an asylum centre at the same time and live together at the same address, which they can, of course: one law says that two installation premiums must therefore be given one per person per person and the other law says that it is one address so that only one installation premium is given. It is that ambiguity that makes every OCMW have a different way of working. I think there's a logic in the organic law that says it has to be by address. After all, it is about purchasing supplies to make an empty house habitable. Even apart from whether it should be one or the other, it is still strange that there are two different things to be said in that legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u23	This was an answer to the combined questions of you and Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u24	This is the difficulty of the attached questions. When a parliamentarian doesn't come, we answer for others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u25	I couldn't help noticing that something wasn't right in the answer. There's got to be some change in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I had tabled three questions on this subject, one to Mrs De Block, one to Mrs Marghem and one to you. I was sent from the locker to the wall, but now the three questions are addressed to you. You're now the super-minister who can answer that question. Glyphosate is considered by the World Health Organisation to be potentially carcinogenic, but it is still widely used in agriculture and horticulture. It is also very popular with individuals who want to drastically destroy the weeds in their garden. Scientific research shows that arthropods can be found everywhere, in urine, in blood, and even in breast milk. The press also reported that it was found in 14 popular German beers. So that cannot be of any benefit to our health. As you know, EFSA gave a positive opinion against the WHO. The European Commission wanted to extend the authorisation of satsumas by 15 years, under heavy pressure from the industry lobby. On 8 March, the experts from the 28 Member States met to approve or reject this proposal from the European Commission. There was a lot of discussion at the time, and there was also a lot to do in the press. Eventually they came to a new date. There is a small majority who would like to approve an extension of seven years on 19 May. Glyphosate is not completely off the table. It always comes back. The proposal is a little milder, but it's not okay yet. Many countries are not reassured and do not trust it. France, the Netherlands, Canada and California have already taken measures themselves, especially for private use. Belgium is just waiting, although we know that the intention is expressed in the Länder and by the regions to do something about this. I have already asked at least five questions on this subject and I hope to have a coordinated answer today. What is the position of Belgium in relation to satsumas? Do you follow the industry? Do you follow EFSA? Do you follow the World Health Organization? It is the Member States that decide, Minister, not the European Commission. So you can take a very clear stand in preparation for the decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u27	Madam President, thank you very much for waiting. The Infrastructure Committee takes place in the Congressroom, so to get here is that every time a marathon runs. Minister, like Mrs Dedry, I also addressed my two questions to Minister De Block, but they were finally assigned to you together. By the way, it was not yet known at the time of its submission whether the European Commission would vote for or against the licence for the further use of satsumas, including the active ingredient of weedkiller Roundup. Meanwhile, some things have happened and we hear that it would be advised to allow the product for another seven years. What we have heard in the press is that Belgium felt that the further use of arthropods should be approved, to large and, in my opinion, justified anger from a number of NGOs, scientists and politicians. I will not explain it all again, but as Mrs Dedry has said, this can at least be called a controversial means. The various studies contradict each other for the time being, but the European Commission seems to support the opinion of EFSA, the European Food Agency. This assessment is based on three unpublished studies, which were also financed by industry. It is strange that it is just those studies that are being taken into account, while the World Health Organisation believes that the substance is carcinogenic. I also note that France and the Netherlands have already decided to ban the product from their garden centres. Minister, is it true that we read in the press that you think you should be positive about the further use of satsumas? What advice have you taken on this matter? What is the argument that the government is calling on to support an extension of fifteen years then and perhaps seven years now? After what has happened in the meantime, is the government still of the same opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u28	Madam Chair, Minister, the file is well-placed and well-known. In November 2015, the European Food Safety Monitoring Agency (EFSA) issued a report in favour of the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate. However, glyphosate, the main component of Roundup, is considered a probable carcinogen by the International Centre for Cancer Research (CRIC). On 7 and 8 March, the European Technical Committee again considered the renewal of the marketing authorisation, but failed to reach an agreement. Several countries are opposed, while others are in favour. On this occasion, you supported the renewal of this authorization for 15 years but, with conditions, you specified. It would seem that you justify this choice by stating that the study by the International Centre for Research on Cancer (CRIC) which says that glyphosate is a probable carcinogen is not correct. You preferred to rely on the studies of the European Food Safety Monitoring Organisation (EFSA). The opinion of many associations is quite different and considers your position "unresponsible if we take into account the health of citizens and the protection of the environment". A new meeting is scheduled for May 18 and 19 to vote, as the Technical Committee of Experts has failed to reach agreement. Minister, what exactly is your position regarding the renewal of the marketing authorization for glyphosate? What are your conditions for a renewal? How was this position determined? Has a consultation with the Regions been organised? If so, what are the instructions or returns? On what scientific basis have you determined your position? Can we dispose of it? On the basis of what elements can you justify not considering the CRIC study as correct? Have you planned further studies or analyses between March and May to possibly review your position? Have you asked other people for advice? In November, you said that no country had yet banned glyphosate. Is that still the case today? Do you not intend to take any measures to prohibit the marketing of glyphosate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u29	Madam President, Minister, you will know that all your interrogators have almost the same questions. So I will be as brief as possible. I will make three remarks or comments. Glyphosate is considered a "probable human carcinogen" by WHO. An important political debate at European level is taking place on the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate, expiring at the end of June in Europe. Knowing that our questions were asked around mid-March and that we are a month later, this issue has evolved. There is indeed a question of a possible extension of seven years. Minister, could you give an update on this matter and describe Belgium's latest views on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u30	Madam President, Minister, the previous speaker has already made an extensive presentation on the story of pomelos. I will therefore not repeat myself, but deal with my questions. What is Belgium's position on the use of satsumas? If there are any further discussions on this subject, what position do you intend to take to those talks? Is there any consideration for withdrawal from the market of arthropods containing products? If so, can alternatives be offered? What alternatives could that be? Is there any possibility of splitting up for professional and non-professional use?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u31	Minister, the issue of pesticides has already caused a lot of ink to flow. I would like to ask you in particular about the problem of the residents who live right next to the fields watered by many pesticides. Some citizens are concerned about possible health effects. Studies carried out in France have updated up-to-date results of local residents living near farms, who are indeed exposed to a range of chemicals whose effects are not well known. They would live in a "pesticidal dust bath". Most of the substances in these pesticides are endocrine disruptors that are likely to be related to certain cancers, hormonal system disturbances such as obesity and diabetes, reproduction and fertility, and fetal development disorders. Minister, are studies funded to identify the possible links between these pesticides and the potential health effects of the riparians exposed to them? Is there any regulation requiring farmers to respect a safe distance from homes when applying pesticides to their crops? What measures and regulations are envisaged for all agricultural areas close to children's facilities and infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u32	I'll go straight to my questions. We have already had the opportunity to exchange our views, but in the agenda that will happen, there is something particularly disturbing. We have a European Commission that is in favour of extension. It is based on studies carried out by the European Food Safety Agency. You're joining them on this point. It is shown that the study, which was used to construct this position, was partly carried out by actors and producers themselves of glyphosate and other similar substances. The European Commission calls for the publication of studies that are currently held in discretion. A European Commissioner has addressed this request to Monsanto and its equivalents who refuse. They say they can be viewed in a secure reading room but without being able to take notes or disseminate the information. Further studies are also requested from the European Chemicals Agency. These results will not be achieved until the end of 2017. The European Parliament also calls for the publication of these studies and for the authorisation to be limited in duration and time to have these results. Minister, in view of these various elements, do you not consider it important to work in order? Therefore, the results of the follow-up studies that are in progress and have been requested must first be obtained. All studies that have been used as a reference and the names of their authors must be published. It is also necessary to reveal the identity of the researchers and to require the publication of the conflicts of interest that some have in this history, to wait for the outcome of the European Chemicals Agency before asking the national experts to take a decision on this request for extension. If there was no agreement, the same should be done at Commission level. There is no point in asking for further studies if the decision is made on May 18 or 19. There is really something that I can't understand intellectally, even outside the political dimension. Finally, in the various exchanges we have already had on this subject, you have given me as an argument of your position and that of Belgium that there was the studies carried out by the European Agency in all its independence and in all its scientific character which I question, but that is my position. But you also said that our jurisdictions, our public health institutes, our research centres have also analyzed, requested and conducted studies. I tried to look at different sites, to find the studies that could have been done, I asked questions. It turns out that no specific studies have been carried out. An analysis of the reports was carried out. And since any study emanating from the European Agency is considered to be scientific and independent, the study in question has been approved. But if further studies have actually been carried out or examined, could you give us the contact details since you said they were accessible on the Belgian administrations' websites or that you could make them accessible to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u33	Madam President, first of all, I would like to stress that decisions are taken on the subject in consultation with the Minister for Health, Maggie De Block. Besides, she's a doctor. I have always been very careful and will, of course, continue to do so with regard to the risks posed by plant protection products, even if some people want to change my label on the basis of just one of the dossiers. I am not banning the risks associated with those products. In particular, my action focuses on greater caution in evaluating the risk derivatives, on more precautions in the use of the products and on the development of alternatives, in particular on support for the national action plan to reduce the use of pesticides. I would first like to make it clear that the distinction must be well made between the substance copolymer itself and the products associated with it for the final formulation of the trade mark. The latter, which we will call the co-formulants, can sometimes also present toxicity problems. The differences between the conclusion of EFSA and the International Agency for Cancer Research are due to different elements, which are detailed in the various public opinions of EFSA, as well as in the explanations distributed by my administration on the phytoweb.be website under the tab. Mrs Gerkens, that is how I give a detailed answer to your question. The Belgian contribution is, on the other hand, part of the EFSA's final public report. As you have noted, the European authorities have a different opinion from the International Cancer Research Centre. The database on which the European authorities have relied is a broader database which has incorporated a series of complementary elements, larger epidemiological studies, animal impact studies and a number of chemicals tested. Most of these studies are scientific publications, which are therefore public. Some of these studies which are not public are, on the other hand, elements of the dossier which are not published but to which all experts of the national authorities obviously have access. In this respect, I would like to stress that the Belgian position is the position that was adopted by most of the Member States of the European Union in the first round of discussion. In our position – and I insist – we have indeed proposed a hardening of use, in particular regarding coformulants and the use with some of them of tallowamine in particular. As you know, we are in a triple-level licensing system in Belgium. Firstly, there is the European decision; secondly, there is the decision to authorise the placing on the market; finally, there are the authorisations for use given by the levels of regional powers. The Brussels Region has taken a decision to ban use. At this stage, I have not been officially informed of any decisions to ban use on a professional or private basis or of any complete prohibitions that would have been taken by the other two Regions. This part of the decision-making power belongs to the federated entities. This could therefore lead to this surprising situation in a case where we could have authorisations for use granted, totally or partially, different according to the regions of the country. As far as our position is concerned, although today we are discussing glyphosate, I would like to point out that, prior to that, in 2005, within the framework of my jurisdiction to issue marketing authorizations, I received 65 applications, 17 of which were refused by me. With regard to glyphosate, we have indeed based our decision on EFSA's conclusions. Until proven otherwise, we consider this body to be serious and independent. At the national level, we have also based our opinion on the assent of the experts from the FPS Public Health and the Institute of Public Health. Our decision is therefore based on this double opinion and on the European opinion, shared by 16 Member States. As part of the careful monitoring of this issue, I am extremely attentive to the position taken by the European Parliament. I note that this position adopted by the majority of European elected representatives does not lead to a refusal to renew glyphosate, but involves, in particular, a limitation on the duration of this renewal, as well as greater transparency on the scientific studies evaluated. I will, of course, pay attention to the new proposal that the European Commission will shortly be submitting to the Member States. It has not yet been officially transmitted. It is with the utmost care that I will examine any other information that may be communicated to us. You should be aware that the principles of risk assessment are defined at European level. But I would also like you to know how much I support positive developments in terms of effects and risk assessment. For example, I support the current work of EFSA and of the European Union body, which prepares the evaluation procedures related to the cumulative risk of several substances in order to refine the risk assessment for the user and operator. Once that methodology is in place, we will be able to envisage a legislative change. For studies on low exposure thresholds, the vast majority of toxicologists active in the regulatory field consider that low-threshold effects are not relevant in the risk assessment of substances and products. For glyphosate, for example, neither IARC nor EFSA observed an effect at a low dose that would be absent at higher doses. I also have a number of thoughts on the protection of users of these products, particularly agricultural users. Furthermore, I would like to point out that several actions of the Federal Pesticide Reduction Plan focus on the monitoring of poisonings among professional users, including studies commissioned at the Belgian Poison Control Centre and constant and specific monitoring of scientific literature and ongoing research projects by toxicologists of the Institute of Public Health. For example, we are following with great attention the progress of a large-scale French project involving a sample of 180,000 farmers, the AGRICAN project. Its conclusions will obviously be carefully considered, as will EFSA also follow the scientific literature on the subject, including a systematic review of 800 scientific articles on the long-term effects of pesticides. Finally, to answer the question concerning residents, I would of course like to point out that, in addition to the general elements of public health, the exposure of professionals, the exposure of neighbours of residents or vulnerable groups is something that I would like to draw my attention to. In the national assessment of applications for authorisation of plant protection products, my administration relies in particular on the relevant guidance documents to assess the specific exposure of these groups of persons, persons at risk, riparians, so that a product is authorised only if it can be used without unacceptable risk, even minor, in particular for the health of residents, operators, workers and persons at risk. On the other hand, many epidemiological studies have been carried out, but I do not have the time to detail the results in detail. Mr de Lamotte, there is currently no safety distance from the homes with regard to the application of the products concerned. However, the regulations provide that the user must take all necessary steps to avoid any exposure of the health of residents to a risk. I do not hide from you that, following the provisions and a number of observations, we are considering following the examination of the conclusions which may be drawn from situations which are now the subject of topicality to elements relating to retreat and distance. Here are the different elements I wanted to share with you. With regard to the phytolicence mechanism, which I have mentioned on several occasions, allow me not to redact it here. As for our actions, I will keep you informed of developments in the National Action Plan to Reduce Pesticide Use. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a number of foreign communications concerning decisions taken in different countries do not yet appear to have been translated into the national legislation of the countries concerned or will only be partially and gradually translated into national legislation. My position is based at this stage on the report of our administrations, the Higher Council of Health and EFSA. I pay particular attention to the studies carried out, to the work of the European Parliament, to the supplementary provisions. We are waiting for a proposal on which we will have the opportunity to decide with Maggie De Block and the Minister of the Environment, as soon as it becomes known to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. You say that EFSA opinions are public and the investigations are not and that only a few experts have partial access to them. You're the minister. I don't understand why you don't have full access to those investigations. Furthermore, you report that the Brussels-Capital Region has already decided to prohibit use. If another region decides that, will the federal level follow? You say that you follow the EFSA all the time, but EFSA has not assessed the cocktail effects of phenylalanine, which are very important. I don't understand why you continue to hold such stubborn faith in that organization. I didn't hear you say anything about the hormone-distorting effects of........................................................................................................................................................... In this context, the European Parliament has already expressed a great deal of criticism of the Commission's draft. I also find that bizarre, because it is an important element, which we have discussed several times with Minister Maggie De Block in committee. The European Parliament has already expressed fundamental reservations and reservations about the draft decision. For example, it doesn't allow fertilizers for non-professional use or near parks or playgrounds. It imposes a more stringent restriction on products containing arthropods in the pre-harvest. We all agree on this in Europe, but I would like to know how you feel about it. You are simply saying that you are following EFSA, but it represents the most conservative approach in the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. But it doesn't make me any better. As Mrs Dedry has already said, all you are saying is that you are following EFSA, while other organisations and experts are giving an opposing opinion. If I were to receive such contradictory advice as Minister, I would apply the principle of caution and be as cautious as possible. I do not think that you have the courage to argue for an extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u36	Minister, your answer is a long one, but it is argued. You started your intervention by telling us that you do not want to minimize or trivialize the risks. Therefore, the precautionary principle should prevail with regard to a product which, at the very least, raises questions about the side effects or collateral effects on certain persons. I would also like to draw your attention to the positions that will be taken by the various committees. As you mentioned, a federated entity has already expressed itself. We could lead to an ambiguous situation. So, are you going to follow the opinions of these committees? I would like you to come back very quickly to present the Commission's proposal and to tell us what position you will stand before the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I think that shortening the duration is a very good thing. I particularly agree with the last part of Mrs Dedry's reply. According to the European comments, arthropods is harmful and a distinction should be made between professional and non-professional use. We have to be careful and make a decision in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u38	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank you for your reassuring responses to the issue of the protection of residents since it appears that many precautions are being taken. However, we must be careful because the study that has just been published in France is quite alarming. In addition, 250,000 people are known to die each year as a result of insecticide, pesticide or fungicide poisoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u39	Minister, I must confess that I do not understand. You started your answer by saying that you wanted to be careful about the risks, that you were in favour of the precautionary principle. You also stressed that the decisions you make are in collaboration with the Minister of Health. But what about the analyses, opinions issued by Belgian authorities, whether on Phytoweb or by the Public Health FPS, PSI, etc.- Is that what you're saying? You confirmed that there was no specific Belgian study, but analyses and comparisons of the IARC and EFSA studies. And you just repeated the elements you've been giving us since the beginning (wider studies and databases, etc.).). But what about the different scientific data? What are the elements on which to rely to be reassured? On the other hand, like you, Belgian actors are not worried when some studies have not been made public. You said our experts had access to it. As far as I am concerned, I believe that they should not be the only ones to be able to consult them. You do not seem to be bothered by the non-publication or by the fact that certain lines containing the authors' names are deleted in the EFSA report. Some people have studied, but we don't know who it is. These people did not say who they were, did not mention their quality. It is a lack of scientific approach not to demand this and to make decisions while knowing that there are gaps in the study and that the data that form the basis for the decision are incomplete. You haven't answered about the weird features of the calendar. It is not by chance that the European Chemicals Agency is asked to re-analyse. We will have these analyses at the end of 2017 while the decision will be taken in May 2016. There is still something unacceptable, scientificly and intellectually, beyond the dimensions and political differences that we may have on the subject! The Commission is asking for the publication of the documents, which means that there are also elements that disturb it. The producers tell him they're not going to publish them, which is a matter of concern. We can therefore really have doubts about this famous feature of de facto independence and appearance independence, which are indispensable elements for an agency that wants to be, and that I would like it to be, scientific and independent. I really believe that Belgium cannot support an extension agreement, even if it is planed as requested by the European Commission and the European Parliament, as long as it does not have all the elements and until the requirements of a true scientific approach, independent and accompanied by the declaration of conflicts of interest are respected. That is the approach that I expect of you so that the decision is made on the basis of complete and well-referenced data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u40	Minister, will we move on to the next item on the agenda, unless you want to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u41	I have no right of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u42	Yes. You may have a reply to your reply, but you have it. Go on! Simply the others will be able to reply again if they wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u43	I formally contest a number of the statements I have just heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u44	Which doesn't surprise me. Nevertheless, I maintain them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u45	Minister, I therefore invite you to the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u46	Minister, today you will have swept away entire sections of our society! The Council of Ministers approved a preliminary draft law amending the Organic Law of 8 July 1976 on Public Centres for Social Action (CPAS). The preliminary draft allows the municipal authorities to carry out tasks currently assigned to the CPAS alone. The debate is therefore relaunched. Could you explain to us how you are going to change the 1976 law? Are you planning to make a difference between small and large municipalities? As regional entities have a diametrically opposed opinion, I would like to know how you are going to deal with this situation and whether consultations with the CPAS federations have taken place or are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u47	Madam President, Minister, I will not go into the subject in detail. As far as I am concerned, this is a question of the state of play. The preliminary draft was discussed at the Council of Ministers. There is indeed a different view in both parts of the country. I believe that Flanders wants to go for compulsory integration. You have actually drawn up a kind of compromise proposal which makes this obligation possible, but we are still waiting for an opinion from the Council of State so that we can finally get started at the Flemish level. I come to my questions. What's the status? In the meantime, have you received the advice of the Council of State? If so, what does this advice entail? If not, do you have a visual on the timing? I will certainly not be the only one to be addressed by OCMW presidents on a daily basis about the time when they can begin to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u48	Colleagues, the government agreement provides for the amendment of the legal framework to allow for the organic integration of the municipal authorities and the OCMWFs, adding that the current tasks of the OCMWFs in the field of social services remain assured. The proposal I have just submitted to the Council of Ministers aims to amend Articles 1 and 2 of the organic law of 1976 on OCMWs in order to allow a merger between the municipal administration and the OCMW. I based myself on three in-depth studies which I provided to the chairman of the Health Commission as soon as the dossier was completed at first reading at the Council of Ministers. The file is currently being examined by the Council of State. I also provided the Council with the various studies I had ordered. In this way, I have provided the Council with as many elements as possible to dust its analysis. As I have already pointed out in the past for this committee, I would like to include a maximum of legal guarantees in this dossier. At this stage, I do not yet have the opinion of the Council of State, which will be available from 9 May 2016. In application of Article 84, § 1 of the coordinated laws on the Council of State, the time limit for the request for an opinion was extended to 45 days because the preliminary draft law must be the subject of an investigation by the General Assembly of the Council. That's important. As soon as I am in possession of the opinion, the preliminary draft will be submitted to the Council of Ministers at second reading. I would remind you that the federal government is limited to making the merger possible. The intervention of the Länder is also essential to adapt this organizational framework as soon as this merger is possible. I draw your attention to the next important passage. The Council of State was also specifically asked about the space available to federated entities, in order to determine the organic framework and, in particular, in a very precise way, whether integration (CPAS, communal services) can be imposed, authorised, prohibited or conditioned. Look at the reasoning we've had. I'm completing the government agreement. I know there are different visions. In order to see how things can be articulated according to a specific procedure, I have proposed to the government, which has accepted, that we specifically ask the Council of State about this possibility of imposing, authorizing, prohibiting or conditioning. With regard to the distinction to be made between small and larger municipalities, here too there is a link with the federated entities. In our project, we respect the autonomy of the local authorities (CPAS and communes combined) and we also respect the possible different look or choice that would be made by the municipalities, especially according to their size. I do not hide that on 9 May, in twelve days, I will read with great impatience the opinion of the Council of State. I don't think I'll be the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u49	As agreed, the studies are on the commission's website, with publication of the authors' names, etc. As also agreed, we will provide for an exchange of views after you have received the opinion, to consolidate the issues and the exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u50	Minister, I am glad to hear that the autonomy of local authorities will be respected. I can understand that some people want a merger, but others don't want it. In my community, I absolutely don't want it. It works very well like that. I find that the functions are different and that the duty of confidentiality must be preserved to the maximum. When people are intelligent, they work together without having to merge and ensure that an alderman becomes responsible for social matters. I am pleased with that answer. I look forward to the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u51	Minister, I too am impatiently waiting for the opinion to be delivered on 9 May. Then we'll hear each other again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u52	Question No 10279 by Mrs Gabriëls is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u53	Minister, the founder of the Menu Next Door platform, which brings amateur cooks and people who want to buy food, accuses AFSCA of excessive controls that would not be appropriate and therefore to want to take over its business, curb local cuisine and promote "industrial" food. The current legislation would have been designed for a time when only professional restaurateurs could prepare meals for private individuals. Menu Next Door cooks wouldn't fit in those boxes. For AFSCA, controls were conducted following consumer complaints. The AFSCA does not report a lack of hygiene but mainly finds that the identification of their activity at the Agency, via application for authorisation, is sometimes missing. Indeed, for AFSCA, in the event of an incident in the food chain, the rapid identification of establishments affected by a contaminated and dangerous product is an essential factor that sometimes avoids more or less serious problems. In addition, the Agency does not consider that it errs in judgment by identifying this type of activity as having a potential hazard equivalent to a professional activity and requiring a minimum of control given the scale of this platform and the number of meals that can be made by some chefs (sometimes between 50 and 70 meals in one evening). Minister, what controls are in place for this type of restoration? How do you look at this controversy? Can the chefs of this platform be assimilated to the world of professional cuisine? On what objective basis could a distinction be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u54	Mr Blanchart, first of all, I should like to point out that I have already had the opportunity to give a number of answers to previous questions. Of course, these are still available. As you name Next Door, I will specifically respond to a number of comments that have been made publicly. To my knowledge, no, Menu Next Door cooks are not subject to the most intense controls. They are, to the best of my knowledge, controlled as persons who make ready food available to and available to consumers by means of check-lists applicable to that activity. The checks shall cover the places used for this "public" activity in order to protect the health of the consumers, customers of these cooks. This is the fundamental mission of the AFSCA. I don't see how we could consider any of these kinds of activities coming out of AFSCA missions. As far as intimidation is concerned, to my knowledge, I have not been informed of an intimidating attitude except, of course, the normal exercise of control. If there are complaints in this regard, the competent services of the AFSCA, the mediation service and others are available. While, in fact, it can be considered that the controls have shown, in the vast majority of cases, proper hygiene management, in general, the controllers have, however, found a general lack of knowledge of the rules to be followed, in particular with regard to the management of food temperatures. In some cases, they have even had to verbalise for lack of hygiene or even presence of animals in the vicinity of the preparation of meals, which is obviously strictly prohibited in a kitchen with a professional or semi-professional vocation. These are, of course, very minority cases. I would also like to rectify allegations. I was sometimes introduced to this activity as small amateur individuals selling a few portions to neighbours very occasionally. This is true in some cases, but in other cases it is quite out of this totally occasional activity. You have indicated this yourself with regular or, in any case, semi-regular benefits. Therefore, I would also like to point out that I cannot imagine a two-speed food security with a particular status following elements of a new exercise in the professional activity of preparing meals for others. Let's be clear, we're not talking about the private sphere here. We're not in completely casual activities. We're on normal benefits. I have not heard in this committee or anywhere else that we are being called upon to exempt ourselves and to create a completely specific statute for the exercise of activity through platforms or the collaborative economy. As with other providers, I would like to see the rules respected but, of course, to be properly followed by accompanying, listening and being open to a number of remarks, neither more nor less than in the traditional sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u55	I thank the Minister for this necessary development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u56	Minister, on April 4, 2016, the government approved a draft law adopted at first reading at the Council of Ministers, concerning the individualised social integration project (PLIS) which would apply to all new cases as of September 1, 2016. You stated in a press release that "this is an important step which leads in the medium term to a generalisation of the PlIS for all and with the aim of sustainable reintegration of the beneficiaries. The aim of the reform is very clearly to support the social integration and occupational integration of the beneficiaries of a RIS, but also to empower them. Indeed, a project is both a tailor-made support and follow-up instrument, but also a real contract with the rights and duties of both parties, namely the CPAS, which is committed to helping the person provide the necessary tools or contacts; and the beneficiary, who undertakes to carry out the steps to integrate into society, as for example to find work, attend training courses, carry out an internship." As you pointed out, this is an important reform, which involves an in-depth and practical study of the situation. To carry out this analysis, you stressed in particular in the discussions on your policy note in December 2015 on the need for negotiation with the actors on the ground. I quote: "A broad process of consultation has yet to be carried out. A meeting has already been held with the CPAS and the SPP. The Minister remains convinced of the fundamental importance of the PLI. Social integration must lead to employment". The announcement of the approval of this draft law did not fail to surprise the actors on the ground, in particular the three federations of CPAS, who believe that they were "faced with the fait accompli" when the negotiations had not been concluded. They have been informed of this move through the press and consider this initiative to be harmful at several levels. Minister, given the impact of this measure, I would like to know the following. In concrete terms, what is the current situation? It seems that a study commissioned by your firm revealed the opposition of the majority of CPAS. Can we have access to the content of this study? I hope that all Commissioners will be aware of this. Why didn't you meet your commitment to a broad consultation process? Do you intend to resume contact with the actors in the field, including CPAS federations, in order to continue the consultation initiated before the bill is adopted at second reading? The Organic Law of the CPAS stipulates that social workers use accompaniment methods which they consider appropriate to the situation. However, your measure generalizes activation, meetings, sanctions. Is this modus operandi in accordance with the law? Given the administrative burden that the implementation of this bill represents, do the CPAS have the human, computer and financial resources to implement this measure as of 1 September 2016? Finally, what about retroactivity as of January 1, 2016? Is it still applicable? If so, how do you justify it? Thank you already for the answers you will send me and for the study you will send me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u57	Madam President, Minister, you have just announced the establishment and generalisation of these "individualised social integration projects" (PIIS) which you present as a contract between the CPAS, on the one hand, and the person to whom social integration income (RIS) is granted, on the other hand, on pain of sanctions such as the suspension of such integration income. To design this reform, you have relied on a study commissioned by the SPP Social Integration at the University of Saint-Louis and at the Karel de Grote Hogesschool in Antwerp. However, this study is much more nuanced than what appears in your project and in your communication on this project. In particular, it recommended benchmarks in relation to the scenario of a generalisation of this contract to all RIS beneficiaries. These included the establishment of a project adapted to the applicant's personal situation, implemented under good professional conditions, linked to a full offer of support from CPAS. The study also gives the floor to individuals who have already concluded an ISIP, which more than nuances its applicability to all situations encountered by RIS applicants. In other words, this ISIP can be both a useful tool for integration and an additional instrument of exclusion for people already in situations of great distress, to the point of having to knock on the door of CPAS. What happens if they are even deprived of RIS? Minister, what reasons did the government have for considering the generalization of this type of program? How would it be implemented? What consultation is planned with the social partners, the representatives of the CPAS and the representatives of the beneficiaries of social assistance, in particular the Walloon and Flemish networks for combating poverty? How have the recommendations of the pre-study as well as the qualitative assessment carried out, in particular on the basis of the testimony of persons who have already concluded an ISIP, been taken into account in your preliminary project? Have the consequences of exclusions that could sanction non-compliance with the terms of the SIIP been measured, both for the individuals concerned and for their households? I'm thinking about children, among other things. How long will the federal government bear the additional budgetary burden of this new system for CPAS? That's one of the arguments you used. What is the expected budgetary objective of this measure? The goal is probably to save money? What savings? How is this calculated? On the basis of the opinions expressed, in particular that of the Walloon network for the fight against poverty and the federations of CPAS, are you prepared to give up this project of generalisation of the programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u58	Mr Minister, I will give you a rather different approach. Unlike my previous colleague, I do not think that is perhaps because I have experience that the GPMI is something negative. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating you on the generalisation of the GPMI and the introduction of the community service as a sign of willingness to work. I think this is an important step towards an even better guidance for all OCMW clients. Tailor-made guidance is the ultimate goal. By means of the GPMI, OMCW will be able to work even more tailor-made and encourage clients to become more self-reliant, work and integration into society. We can only be pleased with that. However, the step we are taking is not clear. It's important that that law doesn't remain a dead letter. I do not think this is your intention, but we will have to be careful. The GPMI should not remain or become purely administrative for some OCMW debt securities. It should not be given too heavily administratively. Clear implementing decisions will therefore be important. That is why I have a few questions. Will the GPMI be simplified in form and conditions in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens? That fear arose from the report on which Mr Gilkinet gave his opinion. What additional conditions, such as mandatory regular home visits and contacts with clients, will have to be met in order to avoid the GPMI being treated as purely administrative? When a person entitled to a living wage is in manifest breach, the OCMW today has the opportunity to stop the client's living wage immediately. I am thinking of cases where there is a manifest lie or where people do not appear to live where they should live or refuse to manifest their willingness to work. When you close a GPMI with a client, of course there are other legal provisions. It is only after notice that the client can be suspended for one month from the living wage, and for a maximum period of three months. You will, of course, do something about the speed with which and the periods during which a suspension can be introduced. That is a good thing in itself, because that was also a criticism of the OCMWFs. Will the generalisation of the GPMI for the OCMWFs continue to make it possible to stop the client's living wage with immediate effect if the conditions are clearly violated? Or is that a consequence of the generalisation that has not been communicated to date? Will it continue to be possible to impose special additional conditions for specific target groups? In the first stage of normal enlargement, you have not yet studied it, but we see some possibilities in that. The community service becomes an additional means for the client to demonstrate his or her willingness to work. At least that's how I understood it from your communications. Do I interpret it correctly that if that consultation with the client is included in the GPMI, which is itself part of the contract and is therefore also mandatory during the contract? I suppose that interpretation is certainly correct. Is it also true that a client who is eligible, but still chooses not to perform a community service, will have to prove his willingness to work in a different way, as has been the case before? How exactly will you work that out so that the OCMWFs know exactly how to fit the community service? Community service is one of the ways of demonstrating willingness to work, but it is not mandatory or mandatory for a target group. I'm okay with that, by the way. In itself, I am not opposed to looking at the community service tailored to a client's needs, but it must be compulsory when it is included or when it appears that the person in question is eligible for it and does not demonstrate his willingness to work in any other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement provides for the following. The GPMI will be extended, in consultation with the sector, to other persons entitled to social integration and services. It sets out, by mutual agreement, a clear path towards greater self-reliance and provides for evaluation times. The objective is to improve self-reliance, social and/or occupational integration and to strengthen social cohesion. It is certainly not a budgetary objective, as I have heard, and much less an objective of exclusion or a quantitative objective of exclusion. I consider, Mr Gilkinet, that your question was totally incorrect! It is therefore to faithfully implement the coalition agreement that I have submitted a preliminary draft law to the Council of Ministers, aimed at reforming the individualized project for social integration. This preliminary draft was examined at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 25 March and is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. An opinion is expected by 9 May. This preliminary project is based in particular on a study carried out with CPAS and which is publicly available on the SPP's Social Integration website. I'm surprised you don't know that, Mr. de Lamotte. The aim of the study is precisely to provide CPAS with better instruments to ensure better supervision of their users. Thus, this preliminary project aims in particular to generalize the ISPs for beneficiaries over 25 years of age. This measure, of course, is not intended to provide for a system that would be blind and generalized because there is an exception that the CPAS will be able to use if they consider that, in a particular individual situation, for reasons of equity, health or other reasons, they cannot, or do not wish, implement an ISSA. My will is that we can, in an administratively acceptable way and with the necessary simplification in relation to the current ISSAs, implement individualised social work, which accompanies a journey towards autonomy and, where possible, towards occupational integration. I stress that there have been consultations with the CPAS. Maybe we have a different view of the dialogues. In my view, these consist of getting around the table, taking responsibility and then submitting it to the government that appreciates the situation. I recall that we held meetings on 15 January, 22 February and 24 February this year. I adapted the text on a number of points and had to convince some members of the government to accept changes requested by the CPAS. I'm not just the notary of what I'm being asked. I can be blamed, but I am listening, I am trying to adapt, I am not only applying the account of what is given to me, assuming that everyone agrees with the desired decision. The elements of the reform are well known. They provide for one year with the possibility of an additional year being extended for a justified reason. They also plan to integrate a service into the community, with this legal distinction – we await the advice of the Council of State – that we are not obliged to accept or put a service to the community in the ISSA, but from the moment it has been included, we are obliged to respect it. This is also the case with other obligations on both sides of these contracts. With regard to the means available, I wonder whether the sum of the means which the government has agreed to grant in addition since the beginning of this Parliament, that is, a year and a half! I am thinking of the compensation for exclusions, or the integration income that was increased by 2% on 1 April. Given the financial situation of our country that has not escaped anyone, I thank the government for agreeing to increase the reimbursement to CPAS by 10%. I'm not coming empty-handed. I am well aware of the administrative and social work, as well as the systematization of the things that this entails. You are aware that I have other files on the table that result in additional support for CPAS. I expected this to be emphasized. Mr Gilkinet, I would like to hear that there is no agreement on the substance, but that there has been no consultation or financial support does not correspond to reality! These amounts are therefore granted for one year with the possibility of extending an additional year. Sanctions, including the warning, are indeed foreseen, but are not aggravated: they are staggered. I stress that we are talking about sanctions for non-compliance with the ISPs. If other elements outside the ISS have not been respected (transmission of incorrect information, unavailability in the labour market), the CPAS remains free to impose sanctions, as I will mention in the circular. But the goal is not the sanction! There are 115 000 beneficiaries of integration income, an increase of more than 12 per cent within a year. Do you think I'm turning my thumbs and thinking that everything's fine and that we're not going to try to design reforms to change the situation? No! I am considering reforms. You will be able to judge me again as to the results. As for the coming into force, this is a request from my government partners, to which I listened. I was asked to be able to generalize the system by providing exceptions for specific cases – that is done – but also to foresee that the integration income granted would be gradually considered. So the beneficiaries before that! The CPAS have one year to review the integration revenues granted to propose these contracts granted since 1 March, which entered into force on 1 September, subject to acceptance by the Council of State. We will, of course, have to make arrangements to accompany and train CPAS, because the deadline will begin to run. I told you. There's no surprise. I explained to you that studies must anticipate consultations and decisions. That's what we did!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that you have many meetings with the Council of State for this month of May! I will consult the study if you tell me that it is actually on the site. It escaped me. I'll see about it with interest. I take note of your remarks. Nevertheless, the opinion of the Council of State will be awaited. Furthermore, you did not reply to me as to a possible agreement between the first and second readings, since you said you had had prior consultations. I have heard that you have taken into account not all but certain elements. I would therefore like to know whether there will be any further consultation, in particular with the CPAS federations between the first and second readings. Thank you for the additional information that you can send me in writing so as not to reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u61	Minister, I'm sorry that my questions shock you, but you have to take on the decisions you make. For my part, I express an opinion on this project, what I have read about it and what I am discovering about it. You honor the fact that CPAS have received more resources, but it is necessary. You are trying to solve a problem that you yourself created by excluding, like the Di Rupo government of which you were a member, more and more people from the solidarity of social security. As far as prior consultation is concerned, I can only read to you the letter from the Walloon Federation of CPAS, which says it is unpleasantly surprised to learn from the press that the preliminary draft has been adopted, and which speaks of passage in force. We're used to it with this government. You have a concept of consultation that shockes more than one interlocutor. You did not reply about the duration of the additional funding guaranteed to possibly accompany this project of generalisation of the individual integration programme. I'll take note of it. I'm getting to my main critic. I said that in the development of my question. I think that under certain circumstances this program can be an interesting tool, or even help people who benefit from RIS. The problem is really the obligation to conclude such a program, which is inadequate for some audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u62	Excuse me, but there's an exception. The law provides that CPAS may, in certain cases, invoke exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u63	There is a reversal of the burden of proof, in this case. The standard is in any case what you have communicated. It will be the obligation. I quote again the Walloon Federation of CPAS, of which are presidents of CPAS from the same political party as yours. The federal authority cannot impose the use of an instrument, but must encourage and support its use. An obligation will only strengthen formalism and exclusion. What will become of those who, in addition to everything else, will even be excluded from the benefit of RIS? And I'm not talking about people who don't respect formal home obligations, etc., but about people who, despite all the good will of the world, are in such a situation that it is simply impossible for them to conclude this type of contract, with all the consequences that it can have on their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u64	Mr Gilkinet, I really do not understand how you can imagine the GPMI as something negative. That's a customized personal contract between an OCMW and his client. Even today, conditions are attached to receiving a living wage. For reasons of fairness, certain conditions tailored to the client are also considered and, if necessary, deleted. This does not change with the expansion of the GPMI. So it's a mystery to me how you can make something negative out of that. Having said that, thank you for your reply, Minister. I would have liked to have planned a committee with you on 9 May, because I am very interested in those opinions from the Council of State, both on this dossier and on the previous one. Madam President, perhaps we can agree on this while we are all here? Mr Minister, I have heard from you that if that community service is in the GPMI, it is mandatory, but that it is viewed on a tailor-made basis and on the client's initiative. I have heard that you will take account of the question of administrative simplification, which is very important. I am also pleased to hear that OCMWFs continue to have the opportunity to suspend immediately in the event of manifest errors. Otherwise there would be an unjustified increase in the figures, and I do not think that was the intention. We will continue to monitor the implementing decisions, because there are a few issues to which you have not yet answered that have to do with the way in which a client will have to be followed up by the various OCMWFs. The question remains whether there will be a need for more standardisation within this new proposal. I will follow with you how we will translate this into implementing decisions. I think it is a positive project and I am very pleased with this step. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u65	The secretariat of the commission will contact the minister's office to schedule a meeting around the week of 17th, 18 on the three topics we have discussed. This will allow sufficient time to read the opinion. Questions Nos 10698, 10699 and 10700 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux are transformed into written questions. Question No 10709 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. Mr Gilkinet, your first two questions are also transformed into written questions. The secretariat will send the list of questions converted into written questions so that the firm can send us the answers. Joined Questions No 11005 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and No 11096 by Mrs Van Peel are postponed together with Question No 11041 by Mr Blanchart. Mrs Van Peel, you therefore have question No 10997 on the updating of the law on integration income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u66	Madam President, that can also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic402x.u67	As a result, we have completed our work.
