ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now 5 p.m. 56. We promised to hold a brief topical debate on Optima. We still have half an hour. Members who have put a question may ask their questions. The other groups can agree to this. I would ask that everyone confine themselves to three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u2	Minister, history is known, in any case in its latest developments: the suspension of Optima Bank, its bankruptcy and then the questions about its resolution. I would like information on the past of this bank, starting with the time when Optima bought Ethias Bank, on the diverging opinions regarding the recognition of the bank that caused CBFA to hesitate, which is why the BNB finally granted Optima a bank license. Who intervened? From then on, what was the work of controlling Optima's operation, on possible warning signals, particularly in relation to the apparent failure of the bank to comply with the conditions laid down at the time of its recognition, i.e. not to distribute dividends? Apparently, this has been done either directly or indirectly through internal billings to other companies of the Optima Group or even to the main shareholder of the bank. That is the first aspect that needs to be clarified. We will hear from the National Bank and FSMA next week about this. [[The second part deals with how Optima would have been complicit in tax evasion and money laundering mechanisms using products in branch 23 which allowed the application of the Savings Directive to be avoided.]] Indeed, if one bought a product from branch 23 in Luxembourg, according to European legislation, one could escape tax. It was known to the public. I have asked parliamentary questions on this. We have also tabled bills. Optima would have sold a certain public who had undeclared money, would have organized money flows. That's what the ISI started to reveal, Mr. Anthonissen explained to us yesterday. In one way or another, have the government departments (ISI, National Bank) identified these difficulties and how they may have acted? Finally, I would like to make it clear on the cost of the operation for depositors at Optima. Is there much more than the EUR 100 000 of guarantees granted by the State through the funds set up by the banks? To what extent can Optima's assets be realized so that as little as possible can be drawn from the guarantee fund established by the same banks? Do you have a more precise view of the means needed? It's a first approach. We will have to continue working on this issue, but I am already looking forward to hearing your first indications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u3	I'm not going to go back to all the retroacts in the case either. My colleague Vincent Scourneau has already had the opportunity to speak in plenary last week. But these last days have been marked by new revelations since the bankruptcy scenario has unfortunately been confirmed. In addition, BNB officially informed the guarantee fund that Optima Bank would not be able to return the deposits to its customers. This means that any person who has a savings account, cash vouchers or term accounts with a financial total of EUR 100 000 or less should be reimbursed by that fund within a maximum of 20 working days. Any additional money would therefore be lost since it was not covered by the legal guarantee. Last episode, yesterday morning the press confirmed that the Gypsy justice system is very interested in large-scale money-laundering operations, in particular via the products of branch 23 in Luxembourg. Minister, you have always wanted to be reassuring to the citizens, invoking the legal mechanisms of protection. Nevertheless, this issue remains a matter of concern for its causes and its many implications. These responsibilities need to be brought to the fore collectively. Minister, what is the updated status of this issue? Do you have refined data on the number of clients who will be affected by this situation and therefore on the budget volume that should be covered by the guarantee fund? Furthermore, what about insured persons if the brokerage licence is cancelled? Will they always be insured? Regarding suspicions of money laundering operations, the press announced yesterday your decision to ask the ISI to reopen the investigation on this subject. Can you confirm this information and, if so, provide us with the reasons for this decision? What does the resumption of this survey mean in terms of resources and personnel? Who should be responsible for conducting the investigation? I could see in the media that it would be done in Ghent, or it would be directed directly from Brussels. Can you already shed some light on us at this point? Finally, do you have any information on the situation of the bank's employees, namely the number of jobs that could be affected? Where appropriate, have synergies already been envisaged with the regional authorities responsible for accompanying jobseekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u4	Mr Minister, after discussing the programme law all day long, I would like to ask you a few questions about Optima. I hope you and we can hold out for a while. I do not go into Optima's history with the acquisition of the Ethiasbank in the past because this would lead us too far, but on a number of relevant facts over the past few weeks and months. On 13 May 2016, the National Bank appointed a special commissioner for Optima. Optima was in principle placed under the curatel of the National Bank. All actions by all Optima's governing bodies were invalid without the Commissioner's permission. The aim of this monitoring was to get things back on track, but by establishing a number of irregularities during the period of supervision of the National Bank and the Special Commissioner, Optima's banking licence was finally withdrawn. Optima's customers' accounts were also blocked by the National Bank, perhaps in order to avoid a bank run with the possible associated damage to those who still had money at Optima. In the meantime, the FSMA has also withdrawn Optima's license as an insurance broker on 8 June. It was only a few days away: a week later, the bankruptcy was declared bankrupt and Optima was declared bankrupt. Those are all relevant facts in this file. Given the position of the government and what we can ask her, this could have an impact. There is the bank licence with the control by the National Bank and the FSMA, the supervisors. Did they all do the right thing? Have they acted as they should in these circumstances? Another important element for the government and society is, of course, the deposit guarantee fund and the impact on account holders. How will Optima consumers be treated in the coming weeks and months? What can they expect and what role can the public authorities play in the framework of the Deposit Guarantee Fund? These are all relevant questions to the government and to you as Minister of Finance. Of course, there is also the criminal law aspect. If criminal acts have been committed by directors, management, director or staff, then all of this will have to be settled and reviewed through the public prosecutor's office and a judicial procedure. I take it that you will not go into that further and that you will say that a judicial inquiry was opened for suspicions of criminal offences, which you cannot anticipate. I would like to ask a number of questions about the circumstances. We believe, of course, that the resolution, the judicial investigation and the investigation of the history of the role of supervisors in this matter should be conducted in full transparency. Everyone must be able to get a good view of the whole in all transparency, also in function of the further handling of the assessment of the role that everyone has played and of course also in function of the judicial investigation. First of all, we understand that there will be a hearing on Optima next week in committee. This will perhaps also provide some clarification, particularly on the role of supervisors in the case in recent weeks and months. In addition, I am already asking you a few questions, Minister. Can you provide any explanation or additional background information on possible irregularities for which a judicial inquiry into Optima has been initiated? What can you tell me about that? Can you give an overview of the further handling, timing, procedure for the next few weeks and months? Who exactly has a judicial investigation started and ordered against? Secondly, can you clarify how the resolution procedure will work? Can you explain the various steps in which a recovery or resolution can be decided? Thirdly, do you think it is correct that the recovery or resolution procedure should be completed before account holders can rely on the deposit guarantee scheme? Fourthly, do you think it is correct that the guarantee system applies per person and not per account? Is the calculation also made in such a way that one looks at all the protected deposits that one person may have, even if they are located at different banks? Finally, what about Optima's customers if they have questions about that deposit guarantee fund and the further settlement? Who can they address? Is there a particular info point where customers can check in?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u5	Mr President, in the period 2009 Ethias got into trouble. Ethias had to be saved and received EUR 1.5 billion in taxpayers' money. At that time, the European Commission decided that Ethias had to get rid of the bank. There were three options then. The bank could have gone bankrupt, but with a balance sheet of EUR 700 million it would not have been so good for the deposit guarantee fund. It therefore seems to me to be a good thing that this has not happened. One could also sell the bank, but no one was interested in it, except Optima. As with the KBC and the Antwerp Diamond Bank, the bank could have been placed in run-off without new production. In this way we could have cut the balance sheet without selling it to someone who wanted to do all kinds of dubious business. To what extent has the consideration been made towards an orderly run-off within the Ethias group? Was that a trade-off? What was the price for this? Of course, this was an opportunity cost because the bank was still losing. What did this get you? Secondly, in 2014, Optima Bank was finally decided to be placed in run-off, to reduce that balance sheet. The dismantling of that balance sheet has been very successful in the end. If we then communicate that we are going to give back that bank licence in the long term, that we are going to phase out banking activities, to what extent will some kind of monitoring of capital transactions be carried out? At that time, the board already knows that the bank will go into run-off, that it will go wrong at some point. Of course, they have some insider knowledge of how to get rid of the money. It's not just foreknowledge, it's even a little, without all the details, made public. They give a little signal to the public that they need to get their money out of there. To what extent has that had an impact on the whole story? Then there's the tax investigation. The BBI never shut it down, but it was on the low end. You have now put a rush on it again, which is a very good thing. To what extent do you already see, since your question to the BBI yesterday, whether there are any useful things from the past and whether new information searches should be carried out? How's the parole meeting coming along? Has there been any mention of that? To what extent are the transactions of the last five years considered, and not just of the last month? These include transactions, money movements, stock movements, loans granted and so on. How much is that being looked at? To what extent can any transparency be given about these allegations, as Mr Smaers also asks? I think this is a very fair question. Very pertinent is also the following. Are there, in fact, any elements that you can say have been disadvantaged in this respect by the Belgian State? Are there any issues that could give rise to a bourgeois election because of the government, the Belgian State, a complement to the investigation of the public prosecutor's office? Finally, today the curators have communicated that they expect EUR 20 million to be too short. That could get a little bit longer. To what extent is there any news about your communication at first sight? Last week, you gave a picture of the balance sheet at first sight in plenary. You then said that all priority creditors would get their money back. Is that still the case today, after further investigation by the curators? Will those with more than EUR 100 000 in the account also see their money back? I am thinking in particular of cities, municipalities and OCMWFs, who may have had a deposit there, so taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u6	Minister, I have a number of questions. I don't know if you can answer all the questions. I asked you a question last Thursday about the National Bank's report and understood that at the time you were briefed you had not yet received it and had not yet seen it. I was already thinking that if you hadn't seen it yet, it was a little weird that you could already say that it's good work, but that it's completely aside. Have you received the report in the meantime? If so, can it be made available to the members of our committee? That is my question from last week, which I would like to repeat today. I understand that a number of colleagues have asked questions here which you can only answer when you have received the full explanation from the supervisor. Secondly, you communicated yesterday that the BBI investigation into Optima would be restarted. We received some explanations yesterday from Mr Anthonissen. He said he liked to tweet and that the investigation was never stopped, but yesterday we understood that, because of the pressure he felt on that file, he had put it in his shuffle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u8	Something like that. It is good that the investigation is indeed being restarted. He also mentioned a second file that he didn't work through due to the atmosphere and pressure that came in, while the people of the BBI Ghent, when they had invaded Optima, had the ambition and the desire to address that file as well. I am not asking you to tell us what file it is about, that goes without saying. However, I would like to know whether, when you asked the question yesterday to restart the examination of the Optima dossier, the other dossier was also discussed and whether you also asked to start that investigation now. The final point I would like to raise is the protection of customers through the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I have heard the first explanations from the curators in that regard. They say there's a decent well after all. Do you already see today the consequences for the Deposit Guarantee Fund itself? What will be the impact? How much will the intervention contribute? Will Optima's customers still be able to count on them to recover their money at 100% or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u9	Mr President, last Thursday we had an opportunity to discuss the matter in plenary. I would like to confine myself to a few specific questions. Firstly, it seems very important to me that we should be given an explanation of the direction in which the investigation of the BBI is taking place. Research into the repatriation of black money from wealthy customers to Belgium or research into the other branch, in particular the creation of a filière to Luxembourg, is carried out through the Branch 23 insurance leg. These are two fundamentally different elements. Last Thursday, I was quite strict in plenary. The court has said that the customer's data has been unlawfully received. That was also right, because when someone behaves like a cowboy and removes certain data without having the necessary permission, it is logical that the file should be stopped at that level. On the other hand, the Minister or the Secretary of State or the supervisor had the opportunity to have the second part, which is the problem of money laundering through a Luxembourg company and branch-23 insurance. In my view, these are two separate files that the BBI could have investigated. Yesterday I heard from Mr Anthonissen that he was unable to take a wind blow and that he has stood still for four years because of the headwind he was given. This is how he formulated it himself: an atmosphere of counterwind. These are two fundamental elements. Specifically, Minister, you announced yesterday that you ordered the BBI to re-activate the file. What did you activate? Part one or part two? That's important. What Mr Smets, the governor of the National Bank, said seems to me to be in line with your reply last week: it was the National Bank's priority to reduce the risk and it has been successful. The risk could be reduced from EUR 700 million to EUR 90 million. From this, I understand that all other elements were less important to him. In other words, we could conclude that prosecuting Optima for tax fraud and, therefore, taxing the bank for millions made no sense whatsoever, given that the risk of EUR 700 million had to be reduced to EUR 90 million. Minister, was that the position of the government, the majority or the BBI? Somehow, there was no new activation, which was perfectly possible, as the court had ruled that the data had been unlawfully obtained. The BBI could have handled the bank itself, as it does in many other cases. If one can't find the customers, one, quite rightly, is dealing with the organization itself. That didn't happen in this case. Yesterday, you stated that you reactivated the BBI in that respect, but what exactly did you reactivate? A second element, for clarification, for the report and for the public. You have clearly said that this will not cost us a euro. That was logical from the data you had. Can you confirm that the use of the Guarantee Fund is a cost in the budget? The creation of the Guarantee Fund takes place through the contributions made by the banks and entered as non-fiscal revenue. If the Guarantee Fund is called upon and paid out, then at that time it is a sound expenditure for us. In other words, today the depositors are rightly reimbursed up to EUR 100 000. Well, all these fees are a cost for the 2016 budget, unless it is recovered through the assets during this financial year. Within 20 days, the Guarantee Fund will have to pay. It's a cost at the time. I would like you to explain that mechanism because many people do not understand it right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u11	No, that's a question I'm asking. I think I'm right when I say that. The Minister will answer it later. Is it an issue or a receipt? I think it would be a welcome if the Guarantee Fund were to be set up and if the Guarantee Fund were to be called upon, it would be an expenditure. However, I would like that clarified by the Minister because I think there is a lot of misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief because a lot has already been said. I would like to comment on three elements. Around the supervision, two statements have been very helpful to me since the affair completely exploded. That's your remarkable statement about the superb work of the supervisor. Especially at that stage, I was surprised. I would like to ask you whether that is still your analysis today. Mr Vanvelthoven has already referred to it, but do you have all the information available? A second statement on monitoring, which surprised me, is what Mr Smets said as an appetizer for next week's hearing in the Euroapzaal on the occasion of his visit to Panama Papers. He briefly said about Optima: "Our focus was to reduce the risk derivatives." In doing so, he himself admitted that a number of other things have escaped the planning or attention. I'd like to know more about that today. Second, your communication yesterday about reactivating the BBI. What order did you give them? What's the exact status of that investigation? That is not clear to me and was not quite clear yesterday on the occasion of Mr Anthonissen's visit. Thirdly, yesterday it was remarkable to learn about any Optima Bis, as Mr Anthonissen put it. In no insignificant newspaper is an institution already suggested today, Merit Capital, where political lines also run. You may not yet be able to mention a specific dossier, but I assume that you took note of Mr Anthonissen's statement and immediately asked yourself about Optima Bis, what happened there and what could happen now. We can spare such things as toothache. Finally. We've already made some arrangements here. I welcome the fact that you're working overtime, while you're probably also very anxious about the Red Devils' game. There is the agreement to hold a hearing next week and then there is the debate on the committee. I think that a parliamentary committee of inquiry is insisting on everything, not just the work of the supervisors, but the whole Optima dossier. There seems to be different opinions on this. I insist that this be made clear to our group in the light of this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u13	Mr President, my speech was not intended to contradict Mr. Van Biesen but to understand. Will the possible future use of the Guarantee Fund be a current expenditure that will affect the structural balance or a capital expenditure? Objectively, I don't know. I therefore ask the question which, in my opinion, should receive the Minister's attention because it can add to the structural balance. I admit I don't know. Secondly, the question I wanted to ask was put by Mr Calvo. I insist again. Yesterday, Mr Anthonissen came to discuss, under the title Optima bis, another issue of the same nature but on which he chose, at some point, not to go further because, he said, he was undergoing an unidentified form of pressure, not personalized in terms of concrete action but rather a form of general atmosphere and speech. My aim is not to argue again, far from it, but to draw the Minister's attention to two points. First, are you aware of this case and are you going to take steps to instruct your services to restart the investigation that had been abandoned? I think it's something fundamental. Secondly, how is it that, in our country, public servants do not themselves, at some point, because of general pressure, continue to investigate? Imagine that in other areas, I am thinking of justice, investigating judges operate in the same way because there are pressures that can exist media, etc. We still have to realize what this means. Is this aspect confirmed? What measures have been taken? It seems to me that this deserves attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u14	Everyone has had the opportunity to ask their questions and to express their reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u15	Mr President, I will deal with a number of points one after the other, although the order may not always be the same. I will start with the question on the Guarantee Fund, which today contains EUR 3.8 billion. From an accounting point of view, these are effective receipts from the federal government, i.e. deposited by the banks. I can give a further clarification here on previous amounts, on the basis of the information I now have at my disposal. It concerns EUR 51 million of deposits covered by the guarantee of EUR 100 000. There has been EUR 60 million in the past, and I have always said that subject to the condition of the European Investment Bank, and I say that now, but the most recent figure is EUR 51 million. Technically, this is what's gonna happen. The Guarantee Fund's gonna pay out. At that time, of course, that is an issue. There are, completed and based on the information I now have at my disposal, 70 million liquidity, both cash and OLO debt securities, available within Optima. In other words, taking into account the fact that at the moment the estimate of the social liabilities is in the order of EUR 10 million, I cannot further specify that figure and can certainly not say that it is and is nothing else, this means that from the cash available, there is sufficient to compensate the socially passive liabilities that I said at the beginning and repeat here, as well as the guaranteed deposits. In other words, Mr Van Biesen, there will be an expenditure and a recovery at the Guarantee Fund. This will depend, among other things, on the curators. Mr Laaouej, as you said very well, this will be a zero-on-balance transaction for the guarantee fund. Since there are 90 million deposits, if there are 51 million under the guarantee of EUR 100 000, there are, by definition, 39 million that are not covered. The order of preference among creditors is first the socially passive, then the 100 000 euro guarantee deposits and then the other deposits. It seems that the other deposits will also be reimbursed at least partially, but here I come to the area of bankruptcy resolution by the curators and we will therefore have to wait and see what can be achieved on further assets. If we are talking about a gap of EUR 20 million, I think that the figures that I have now indicated may fit in, but I cannot and will not interfere with the procedure. That must take place as it should in a failure through curators, judge, Commissioner, and so on. I come to Mrs Smaers' question about dealing with the Guarantee Fund. The Guarantee Fund shall pay out no later than 20 days after the notice of default of the institution concerned. This notice of formal notice was legally implemented on 9 June, which means that the EUR 100 000 guaranteed deposits will be paid out by 29 June at the latest. I would like to remind you that the Guarantee Fund website is a very accessible and clear website for laymen also in the area of...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u16	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u17	That's twice now, after football. Mr Calvo, I did enjoy the match with Croatia yesterday, at least the second half. With regard to my written question to the BBI yesterday to open the investigation, you are quite right to ask a number of questions about the circumstances and what aspects it concerns. There are at least five things that I think should be made clear. I believe that the BBI is the necessary tool to investigate those cases. The ISI is the imperative instrument for analysing what has happened. First, what happened when the bank licence was transferred in 2011? It seems clear to me that there are still a number of matters to be resolved in relation to circumstances and around amounts paid. Secondly, like you, I hear all kinds of things about black money flows. I'd like to get some answers to that, you too, I suppose. Thirdly, I hear all kinds of rumours and allegations about circuits to and from Luxembourg. Fourthly, I hear all kinds of things about the 2012-2013 investigation. Apparently, my colleagues who attended yesterday's sitting, Mr Anthonissen, informed me about this too. Well, let us try to get a straight line in that and see what happened then, on the basis of which, apparently, legal decisions were taken to shut down certain cases, to declare certain cases inadmissible and whatever. Fifthly, and with this I conclude in the same line, Optima bis is also a question for me. I won't hide the fact that I hear all kinds of names flying around today. I do not participate in speculation, so I do not participate in all kinds of guesses about this or that institution. I hear what you are hearing and my only concern is to clarify these five questions through the appropriate body, in particular through an investigation by the BBI, as soon as possible. The third element is, after the guarantee fund and the investigation of the BBI, the route of the regulators. I maintain that, on the basis of the data I had 10 days ago and available to me today, the regulators have actually done their job and that they have not only completed the bank in terms of deposit liabilities, rounded up from EUR 700 million to EUR 90 million, but also virtually eliminated the entire loan portfolio. It cannot be claimed that the regulators were there and looked at it. I think that's wrong. They have, indeed, made additional changes on the basis of irregularities found, where it seems that Mrs Smaers, too, will have to be confirmed further in relation to the withdrawal of company funds, in particular by the main shareholder to the company we are talking about. With regard to the further settlement by the curators, we all have to wait and see whether and how this is achieved and what well is left behind. If there are criminal authorities that believe that they have the information they need to carry out criminal actions, it seems to me very obvious that this must be done. I have said several times yesterday, and I would like to repeat this here too, that there are many unanswered questions in the dossier for me, as Minister for Finance. I absolutely want to do everything I can to get answers to these questions as quickly and as solidly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u18	We have received some additional figures. For the rest, many questions remain unanswered, as you have said in conclusion. At the time of Optima's takeover of Ethias Bank, we will have to start looking at this first negative opinion and the licence which was nevertheless granted afterwards. A follow-up was carried out, whether or not it was necessary to grant this licence? Was this done under political influence or pressure? Why did we accept it? We must use this Optima dossier, like other unfortunate banking cases, as a counter-example, as a model of what should not be done. We need to be able to prosecute people responsible for harm and change, improve our banking control system to avoid new problems afterwards. We're only at the beginning of the story. We will not miss out on investigative work with real investigative judge means – it is the very nature of a commission of inquiry – in order to get to the end of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u19	Minister, I have three comments to make. I had not tabled a written question or an oral question because I suspected that you, as a minister, currently have more questions than answers. We will, of course, have to clear this up in the next few weeks. I would have liked to hear from you the following. The National Bank has delivered a note to the court. I would have liked to know if you have received that note and whether it is available. With regard to the second dossier, Optima bis, I would like to ask you to urge the BBI in Ghent to launch that dossier as well. I didn't hear anything about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u20	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u21	I noted that you didn't want to name any names and that you didn't want to guess either. I understand that, but I'd still like to ask you to urge the BBI Ghent to initiate the investigation in the relevant file. If you did answer that, I must confess that I missed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u22	You have not yet answered the question on the note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u23	I'm sorry. I lost track of that. I did receive a note from the National Bank. This is what we are talking about here; the definition can take all kinds of forms and there are many cows called Blaar, the letter from the National Bank to Optima. Which explains what they all think is going on. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u24	To Optima?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u26	I thought the National Bank had also delivered the file to the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u27	The National Bank is now being questioned by the public prosecutor, of course. You referred to the leaked quotes in the press on Thursday. As far as I know, but I'm not all-knowing, it's about that. I'd be more than happy to press the National Bank. You can, of course, ask the question legitimately when the people of the National Bank will be coming next week. But it is not for me to express such correspondence. I believe it is a very legitimate question if you ask them to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u28	It is important that we get the document through any channel. I thought a report from the National Bank was delivered to the court. Well, I guess that should be checked out. I believe that if you are in possession of documents which fall within the competence of this Parliament, we should have access to them. Again, I don't care what way we get those documents, if we can just look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u29	I had a conversation with the governor earlier. He'll come with Luc Coene, so there'll be two of them. I had the impression that he mainly wants to outline the history and also what has happened in the facts over the last few months. There would be a note from the National Bank about a letter to Optima with certain things in it. I don't know if all of that could be published. I haven't seen that note myself. I will ask the governor to give maximum openness to the committee on what is currently available next Wednesday. I don't know how much there are cases in there that concern the public prosecutor, criminal elements, I don't know. I don't know if they can just make that public. In any case, we will ask for maximum openness. Perhaps the Minister could insist on that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u30	That's exactly what I'm saying. Mr Vanvelthoven asked me that question last Thursday. I answer that in all clarity and transparency, but at the moment it is not for me to say that I am going to bring that correspondence out. That's not up to me. As the President has already said, I would certainly like to urge the governor as much transparency as possible, but there are certain things I must and want to respect. As far as your second question is concerned, let me be clear. I've asked the BBI to restart the investigation. If there's an Optima Bis in there, it's gonna work for me. All I wanted to say is that I don't want to participate in speculation about whether this Optima Bis is here and what that might be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u31	That's how I understood it, but I also understand that Optima Bis is not part of Optima 1, that it's a new file. I would urge you to tell Karel Anthonissen that, if the file is so important, he must start it. After all, he has said here that this is another file that would best be dealt with by the BBI, I am not talking about other bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u32	He even said more, especially that the people were ready in the same cowboy-like way. He then refused to open a new Optima Bis case. He thought there was a headwind and he didn't do it. That's what it's really about. There was a second file where he wanted to invade to get the information, that's what he said, but the fact that he was contradicted in the first file by the court...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u33	It was De Gucht, not the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u34	Mr. Van Biesen makes a bit of a remix of the intervention of...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u35	To conclude, Minister, thank you for the answer. I think that majority and opposition, government and Parliament need to work very hard in this to get the clarity that everyone is asking for. Transparency is the best detergent in this respect to clean up. In this respect, let us go all the ways that are possible to make things clear to everyone in all areas. At that point, it must also be made clear: what does the BBI have, what can the BBI do exactly? We would also like to know whether the National Bank has allowed certain roads that were not the right way to go, because of the fact that the main objective was to reduce the risk from EUR 700 million to EUR 90 million. Did anyone know at that time that a number of things were happening in that bank? Has that been allowed at that time? I think that we should examine this and then make a judgment as to whether this was the right decision taken by the National Bank and the other supervisors at the time. Next Wednesday we'll hear from the National Bank. I propose that we continue our operation clean so that we can have transparency and clarity. At that time, we will have taken a great step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u36	On the Optima bis, I think there is a procedure to follow. From the moment Mr. Anthonissen revealed certain elements, without mentioning the name of the financial institution, the ISI headquarters, who is the minister's interlocutor, must be referred to. On the basis of the information brought to the attention of Parliament by Mr Anthonissen, it is necessary to ask for clarification and, if necessary, to carry out an administrative inquiry. You have to follow the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u37	Minister, I would like to join Mr Laaouej in his speech. I think that action should be taken as soon as possible. Yesterday, this was presented as a new, large file which for certain reasons has not been followed up. I would therefore like to endorse Mr Laaouej's encouragement. Minister, I think it would indeed be a good thing if you, along with the President's moral authority, were to ask the National Bank to provide us with as much information as possible and as soon as possible, so that next Wednesday's hearing could really take place on the ground. There are a lot of questions to ask. You have already drawn more or less conclusions, because on the basis of the information you have at your disposal, you say that there has been excellent work. That seems to me at least premature, because there are still a lot of questions to ask. The best way to address these questions is to share the information that can already be shared as quickly as possible. I understand that you want Optima Bis and everything that happened at that time very explicitly to re-record with the BBI. I'm glad. That is the least we should do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic450x.u38	Thank you, Minister and fellow Members. It's been a long day. I hope we can end this day well.
