ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u1	Questions Nos 12619 and 12627 by Mr Pivin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u2	Mr Van Hecke is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u3	Mr President, my question has indeed been merged with that of Mr Van Hecke. Last week Mr Van Hecke was kind enough to postpone these questions because I could not be present and now he has informed me that he cannot be present, but that I am allowed to ask my question. Perhaps the Minister's answer also contains a response to his question. Mr Minister, my question concerns the Forensic Psychiatric Centre in Hofstade near Aalst. I understand the terminology is wrong, but perhaps you can tell me what to call the centre from now on. The government decided on 13 May 2016 on the arrival of that centre. It will be built on a vacant site which is now partly owned by the city of Aalst and the OCMW of Aalst. The next step is to sell the land to the Government of the Buildings. Or maybe it's an expropriation. Afterwards, public procurement may start. The federal government, you, and the Government of the Buildings, are builders and initiators. How concrete is the construction of the centre in Hofstade currently being developed? Is there a timeline for the purchase of the land and for the public procurement? Can you give an overview of that? You may know that the neighborhood residents, quite rightly, have a lot of questions. They come to the mayor's and ship's college with it. In what way and when will the federal government inform the neighborhood residents about the plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, I have just explained the basic decision of the nuclear cabinet on Master Plan 3. This plan consists, among other things, of providing an adapted infrastructure for each interned with, on the one hand, a number of projects and extensions in the existing care circuit and, on the other hand, the construction of three new facilities, including one in Flanders, especially in Aalst. I have also explained that the concrete implementation of these centres and their concept will now be further developed in a working group. All of this is now being converted into a concrete dossier which has to be validated by the Council of Ministers. Only then can more details and timing be given. I can tell you that in the last week a meeting has taken place with the four competent finance inspections. It is only when a full agreement has been reached that a financial dossier can be submitted to the Council of Ministers. I hope this will be possible before this summer, but it may also be before the summer. An information meeting for the neighborhood only makes sense if there is an insight into the concrete impact of the concept. As I said, this is still in full effect. With regard to previous technical studies, I must refer you, without wishing to pass this on, to the Minister responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. I can tell you that the concept is completely different, namely a care centre with 120 places opposite a prison with 444 places. This also needs to be reworked in technical terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am waiting with you and I hope that the dossier will not be delayed too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u6	Questions Nos 12725 and 12783 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Marcel Cheron are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u7	Minister, in January 2010, the Play of Chance Act was amended, in particular to extend its scope. This law provides that a licence is now required, both for the games offered in the framework of a complete television programme and for the various other games in which one can participate via radio, television, newspapers or periodicals. Articles 43/13 and 43/15 of the Act refer to a royal decree for the terms of licensing, operation and control of games. However, control orders are lacking, resulting in inaction by the gambling commission. In addition, the Royal Decree of 21 June 2011, which lays down the obligations, in particular in terms of the protection of players, seems to be aimed only at complete programmes and not at television games which form only part of a programme. This order specifies the information which the licensee must display in a clearly legible, continuous and explicit manner on the screen throughout the broadcast and requires the presenter to communicate regularly the rules of the game, the highest possible rate by type of call, the prohibition on minors to participate or the warning that excessive play involves risks such as dependence and the risk of playing beyond its financial means. The presenter must also refrain from encouraging excessive participation in the game. However, it must be noted that conditions sometimes scroll into tiny characters. There's a doubt about readability. It is impossible to determine whether the minimum age, the cost or the reminder of the regulation are mentioned in writing, whereas the Royal Decree referred to above provides for it. The interpretation of "regularly" or "excessively" encouraging" with regard to the presenter's obligations also does not facilitate consumer protection. We had already asked you in June 2015 about these various problems. You then replied that five royal decrees had to be discussed before the end of the year. In particular, there was the Royal Decree on Ethics in Connection with the Advertising Organization, which was delayed since article 61 of the 1999 Act already provided for the drafting of this code of ethics, which still does not exist. In your policy note, you stated that the emphasis would be on the protection of the minor player. What is the status of the initiatives announced by the end of 2015? When will these implementing orders be implemented, which will enable the gambling commission to act effectively against the abuse of such games? When will the code of ethics be put in place? What exactly will it contain? Are you going to take new initiatives to better protect minors and to combat dependency and the risk of playing beyond its financial means? Is it true that the provisions on the protection of players, as set out in the Royal Decree laying down the conditions to be met by the games offered in television programmes by means of series of numbers in the Belgian numbering plan and which form a complete programme, do not concern television games which form only part of a programme? If so, would it not be necessary to make a legislative or regulatory amendment to strengthen consumer protection with regard to television games that form only part of a programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u8	Mrs Fonck, since the beginning of this year, three consultation meetings have already been held with the sectors of the game, including the National Lottery, the players' protection associations (Vereniging voor Alcohol- en andere Drugproblemen (VAD), the League of Families, Test-Achats and the media), with a view to concluding a protocol on advertising and marketing, similar to that concluded in the field of alcohol. These meetings were prepared with the advertising ethics panel, the path being that of self-regulation through the Advertising Council. Unfortunately, these meetings have not been successful. There are 75% of operators who have proposed their own convention text to the advertising ethics jury. The latter refused to validate a text that was not defended by all. I have therefore asked the Commission for a draft regulation and the Commission will therefore give an opinion at its meeting in July. Since the publication and implementation of the two royal decrees of 21 June 2011 concerning these television games and the manner in which the G1 licence relating to them was granted and used, the abuse of television game broadcasters has been stopped. To date, only one G1 licence has been granted to ITV-Shows, which operates and produces "night games", broadcast for two hours after midnight on RTL's antennas. This license and this type of game are subject to very strict and binding regulations, as well as control, both a priori and a posteriori. If you wish, I can provide you with the various annual reports that are sent to the government in this regard. Games that should be licensed under the G2 licence are not controlled for lack of framework in this area. The draft ad hoc royal decrees have not been dealt with. They were not considered a priority as a result of the complaints made in this regard. However, these games are illegal. Prosecutors can continue if this theme finds its place in their action plan. The aim is to reduce the volume of advertising and the amount of its dissemination by means of a binding regulatory text imposed on all actors. This will provide that advertising cannot target the young population or the vulnerable population. As far as games are concerned, through the media in the broad sense and as far as they are considered to be games of chance, only games covered by a G1 licence provide protection for players and, beyond that, minors. The G1 license applies to a specific type and form of gambling. Other games, whether by chance or not, accessible via the media, the Internet or social networks, are currently taking place outside a formal regulatory framework. The game rules put in place are those of the organizers. That is why I have been insisting on the gambling committee for a long time to draw up a draft of a strict and coherent legislative and regulatory framework, with the aim of increasing the protection of players. This work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u9	Minister, thank you for the various parts of your answer. I understand that an opinion will be given in July. I hope that this can lead to a code on gambling. With regard to orders that are not taken, it is true that prosecutors can prosecute. But the means of control and intervention that can be deployed, for example by the CSA on the French-speaking side and its Dutch-speaking equivalent, are much more limited due to the lack of a sufficiently set regulatory framework. In this respect, it would be good if we had a comprehensive regulatory framework for the intervention of the supervisory bodies to be effective. Finally, we will see the work to be done by the gambling committee. That seems fundamental to me. I am thinking in particular of the most fragile people, including minors. They are subject to many influences and their protection against gambling is insufficient, especially in the face of the new "palettes" of recently developed games of chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u10	Mr President, Minister, although the subjects of these two questions are quite different, they seem to me to be complementary. These issues concern the disabled adults and the law of 17 March 2013 which reformed the disability regimes. I ask you this question at the request of justices of the peace who are often confronted with the problems known by centres housing deep mentally retarded persons who can no longer express themselves and who are abandoned by their families. Certain acts of a person's life may be represented and important decisions may need to be made with respect to care and/or surgical procedures. However, some acts are excluded from representation by law. These include consent to sterilization, request for euthanasia or request for termination of pregnancy. For persons with severe disabilities, the law did not provide for both consent and opposition, even in the case of surgery that would be judged by doctors as justified or even indispensable. Administrators and justices of the peace are stuck in the legal text and the consequences can be dramatic. If the operation is authorized, it is contrary to the law, but if there is no authorization, the doctor refuses to provide for problems of professional liability insurance. If the transaction occurs and it fails or leads to complications, the responsibility of the justice of the peace and the administrator will be challenged with possible insurance consequences. If no one dares to take responsibility for intervention and the condition of the patient worsens or deteriorates as a result of this defect, the administrator may also be subject to liability. Minister, do you confirm this analysis and the difficulties that result from it? Should the law not be supplemented to overcome this legal difficulty, but also the difficulties faced by justices of the peace and caregivers? There is obviously a need to find a balance. It is not simple because these are very delicate situations. However, in the field, within the existing legal framework, they are even more delicate. That is my second question. The Act of 17 March 2013 allows the appointment of an administrator of the person to, in parallel with the administration of the property, take with the protected person or by representation decisions concerning him or her personally, such as, for example, for the elderly, the decision to move into a nursing home, to be operated, the follow-up of the placement, etc. This new law has introduced, more systematically than in the past, the person of trust, who can make the link between the person, the administrator, the institutions and the family. It comes to my mind that in some justices of the peace, the same administrators are always appointed, without always taking into account the family wishes or the human qualities of the administrators. The appointment of a trusted person may also be denied. Some families then feel that they can no longer be heard in their knowledge of the needs and wishes of the protected person, who is often important, and that there is some sort of understanding between the justice of the peace and the administrator. The protected person, for his part, does not always dare to express his opposition, or does not necessarily have the capacity to do so. In the preparatory work for this law, which I have read, there was a question of being attentive to these elements and to the indispensable quality of directors, who must be good managers, but above all, when they are also appointed as an administrator of the person, professionals listening to the needs and wishes of both the protected person and his or her entourage. This is primarily about the interests of the protected person and their well-being. Minister, do you have any information about these appointments? Do you have any figures on the lists of administrators appointed in each justice of the peace? Should there not be a form of rotation in appointments, where the same directors are always appointed, in order to avoid the same appointments? To stick to the travaux préparatoires of this law, how could one organize a form of assessment of the human qualities of directors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, articles 492/1, § 1, and 497/2 of the Civil Code must be read in conjunction with the Law of 22 August 2002 on the Rights of the Patient. The applicable regime is as follows. It is true that the justice of the peace may declare a person incapable of performing certain acts deemed highly personal for which no representation or assistance is possible. These include, for example, consent to sterilization, request for euthanasia, request for termination of pregnancy. The consequence is that if a person is declared incapable of exercising his or her rights, no one will be able to place them in his or her place. The only way to remedy this is to ask the justice of the peace to review the protective measure and to lift the measure of incapacity for such acts. This special regime applies only to highly personal acts expressly mentioned in article 497/2 of the Civil Code. It does not concern other medical procedures. Even if a person is declared incapable of carrying out all or part of the above-mentioned highly personal acts, he still benefits, for all other medical acts, from the Law of 22 August 2002 on the Rights of the Patient, which, as a special law, prevails over the provisions of the Civil Code. In accordance with Article 492/1, § 1, 15 the justice of the peace must give an express ruling on the capacity of the protected person to exercise the rights of the patient provided for by the Act of 22 August 2002. If the justice of the peace declares the person incapable of exercising the patient's rights, the protected person may nevertheless exercise his or her rights if, at the time of exercising them, he or she is capable of expressing his or her will. It is in fact up to the doctor to decide when he examines the patient. If the doctor has determined that the protected person is not himself or herself capable of exercising his or her rights, section 14 of the Law on the Rights of the Patient organizes a cascade. Priority shall be given to the person whom the patient has previously designated by a specific written warrant to replace him, provided that and as long as he is unable to exercise his rights himself. Failing this, the rights are exercised under the same conditions by the person's administrator after special authorization by the justice of the peace referred to in article 499/7 § 1 of the Civil Code. In the light of the above information, it is not necessary to supplement the legislation in force. I recognize, however, that it should be simplified for better readability. With regard to your second question, the figures and statistics of courts and tribunals are not yet available for 2015. As for the 2004 ones, they do not contain specific information on the application of the law of 17 March 2013, which entered into force on 1 September 2014. According to information provided by the National Register, 31,105 directors were registered between 1 September 2014 and 11 June 2016; of these 19,397 are property administrators, 1,177 are personal directors and 10,531 are property and personal administrators. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the number of professional and family administrators. For more detailed information on the statistics available at the moment, I refer you to my answer to Mrs Uyttersprot's written question of 18 January 2016. In accordance with articles 496/2 and 496/3 of the Civil Code, the justice of the peace must designate as administrator the person mentioned in the declaration of preference registered in the central register established for that purpose, unless there is a serious reason in the interest of the protected person. Otherwise, the justice of the peace shall preferably choose a family administrator as the administrator of the person, provided that he or she is able to assist or represent the person to be protected. As I have already stated on several occasions, my objective is to ensure that the law is enforced in the light of its spirit. Article 497/1 of the Civil Code gives the King the right to make the exercise of the function of administrator subject to certain conditions. I wish to draw up, in consultation with the Communities and all the actors concerned, an appropriate framework for the exercise of the function of administrator. The function of administrator should also be made more accessible to family administrators. For the surplus, I do not have a clear opinion on the mechanisms to be put in place or how to assess the human qualities of directors. I would like to take into account the different views expressed on this issue, in particular those of the actors on the ground. This consultation will begin immediately upon the adoption of the draft royal decree on the list of health conditions deemed to seriously and persistently alter the person's ability to assume the management of his or her property interests, and the draft royal decree on the taxation of the administrator's fees and fees, which, as you know, are under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your different answers. With regard to all acts that cannot be represented and your return to the justices of the peace, I mean that you acknowledge that it would not be pointless to look at procedural simplification. This is all the more true, Minister, for people who are totally unable to express themselves and completely abandoned by their families. These are, of course, those that I was particularly interested in, for which the problem is much more acute than for others. In addition, on the second part, this project that you are going to launch on the framework for the function of administrator is, in my opinion, surely an important element for the future, especially for family administrators. With the explosion of the number of insane people, there is a large burden borne by families, with additional difficulties and responsibilities. It seems to me important to be attentive to those who exercise the function of manager, even if they are not family, and to consider with the field how one can give a framework, including on the human side and not only on the one of property management. Particular attention should be paid to the work and support provided by family administrators. It's not easy and it often generates rather sensitive issues within families.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u13	Questions Nos 12799 and 12800 by Mrs Uyttersprot have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u14	Mr President, Minister, as you probably know and with great certainty, the coalition agreement requires a measurement of the workload of the courts and courts and, of course, the consequences of these results. It was, among other things, your predecessor, I think, because this story about the workload measurement has of course been going along for a long time, who was present and who had instructed the Standing Bureau for Statistics and Workload Measurement to carry out a workload measurement at the various courts of profession. It was then, I believe, also your predecessor who, after carrying out the workload measurement, contacted the Supreme Court of Justice to carry out a study which could provide an answer to the question of why there are such large differences between the different courts of appeal regarding the elimination of the stock of pending cases and the number of judgments handed down per counsellor. If I am not mistaken, the Supreme Court of Justice is currently conducting this study. According to the provisions of the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court is obliged to comply with the Minister's request to carry out an investigation, but can also make adjustments to the subject matter of the investigation, for example in the light of available figures. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Have any changes been made to the research question in the study carried out by the Supreme Court of Justice? Has the Hoge Raad called on the Permanent Bureau for Statistics and Workload Measurement? If so, in what way? If not, why was the expertise of the Vast Bureau of Statistics and Workload Measurement available not used in making comparisons between different courts? Has the results of the workload measurement of the courts of appeal been included in this study? If not, why not? How has research in particular taken into account the specific way in which each court operates and the specific way in which each court records all such data? In what way are the differences between courts, in terms of efficiency gains, taken into account in this particular investigation? In what way were the absences due to the illness of the magistrates calculated and precise and reliable figures existed? What are the results of the research, what value is attached to that research and what consequences can be attached to it? So many questions for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u15	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I received the report of the Supreme Court of Justice, to which you refer, last week. It can be found on the website of the Supreme Court. Most of your questions are about the methodology and this is explained in detail in the report. The previous Minister of Justice's initial question was to analyse the annual reports of the five courts of appeal and the causes of the differences in the figures between the courts of appeal regarding the elimination of the stock of pending cases and the number of judgments handed down per counsellor. After finding that the comparability of the figures between the courts is limited, the Supreme Court re-defined the subject matter of the investigation from a pragmatic point of view. The Council therefore collected data for each court over six years from 2008 to 2013 and examined trends that could be identified. This approach does not compare a court with another court, but makes sure that the court improves its functioning. The Supreme Court has used the data made available by the Standing Bureau for Statistics and Load Measurement for the data relating to the incoming, outgoing and pending files of the courts because the information is much more detailed than that given in the operational reports. The Supreme Court has used the figures it has verified, together with the first Presidents, for the analysis. Wherever necessary, he corrected it. The Hoge Raad therefore did not use the workload measurement carried out by the Standing Office for Labour Measurement and Statistics. The report does not make a comparison between the courts, but examines the evolution of its operation per court for six years. Thus, the court is analysed from its specific way of working. As I said, the report contains no analysis of the differences between the courts of appeal, only the evolution and trends within the same court of appeal. These trends are the result of measures taken by the court in its way of working. Since the analysis was based on the effective average occupancy, the absences for medical reasons were also included in the analysis. This shows that the registration of the medical absences is not uniform and that there is no unambiguous notification to the central personnel department of the FPS Justice Department. There is a disease registration system for the judicial staff, such as referees and clerks, in particular Medex, but it is not used for magistrates. The Supreme Court recommends that the computer system which allows the central registration and follow-up of personnel records of magistrates, referees, lawyers, clerks and administrative staff should also include a uniform record of absences for medical reasons. On the one hand, the Supreme Court has drawn several conclusions and made recommendations concerning the recording of personnel data and the registration and comparability of cases. The report, on the other hand, also formulated conclusions per court of appeal. From an initial analysis of the report, it seems that the Supreme Court, on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the first part, has put the finger on the wound. I believe that the recommendations are very valuable and call for the necessary attention. For the sake of sound management, it would seem useful for all actors involved to cooperate with the FPS, colleges, courts and tribunals in order to improve the reliability and uniformity of statistical data. On the conclusions concerning the individual courts of appeal, I do not wish to express too much opinion, as this calls for a thorough analysis of the report. However, there is no doubt that such an analysis of the functioning of the courts of appeal is a useful tool for the Minister of Justice. I will therefore take the report very much to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u16	Thank you, Minister. Since the report is also on the website, I will also analyse it. It seems clear to me that the courts of appeal work in a different way and thus record their data in a different way. This makes it very difficult to draw conclusions and turn them into a policy. Therefore, my suggestion to you is to give the various courts and courts of appeal a form of standard form, so that each court and every court records all data in the same way. In this way comparisons can be made and conclusions drawn on everyone's working methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u17	Questions Nos 12819 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and 12821 by Mr Dirk Janssens are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u18	Mr President, Minister, last February I asked you because, at the time, a gestation fair for others was to be held in Brussels, which had already been organised earlier. I will not go back to the various Belgian laws, namely the Law of 6 July 2007 on the LDC and the donation of gametes which must be free of charge, the Law of 13 June 1986 on the removal and transplantation of organs, and the Civil Code according to which all or part of the body cannot be used for commercial purposes. So there is a clear ban on lucrative marketing of the body. If I come back to you, it's because a new show is announced for the month of September with exactly the same setting, namely a purely commercial show with a purely lucrative business. Indeed, the possibility is offered to choose a mother from a catalogue, according to a whole series of physical and even intellectual characteristics. It is clearly a question of catalogue shopping. Mr Minister, last February you told me that you were looking for a legal basis on which you could prohibit the holding of a fair inviting the violation of Belgian bioethics standards. At the time, you also informed me that you were going to apply to the College of Attorneys General. Since then, a few months have passed and a new show is scheduled for September, which is why I would like to take stock with you of this issue. Indeed, the holding of this kind of fair in Belgium is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, according to the results of an investigation carried out by my administration, there is currently no legal basis in criminal law to prohibit the holding of such a fair. As I said in my reply to your question in this committee in February, I am not at all opposed to a parliamentary initiative to address this issue. In parliament, several proposals have already been tabled at the end of 2014. To be more precise, the Law of 6 July 2007 on Medically Assisted Procreation and the Destination of Supernumerary Embryos and Gametes, known as the "LDC Law", currently provides nothing on the subject. In particular, a provision similar to Article 4(3) of the Act of 13 June 1986 on the removal and transplantation of organs is missing. This article provides that any measure making public the need or availability of organs for the purpose of offering or seeking a financial gain or a comparable benefit is prohibited. This legislation is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Health. A draft amendment to that legislation was therefore within its competence. With regard to your request for information, the College of Attorneys General has informed me that the relevant networks of expertise are working on this issue. Unfortunately, the information requested is not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u20	Minister, thank you for these answers. First, I note that the FPS Justice does not see a legal basis. This is an analysis that is contradictory to that carried out by the Bioethics Advisory Committee, which is clear on the capacity and legal bases that do not allow this type of fair to be held in any way. I'm not a lawyer. I have already found that the lawyers between them do not always have the same version, including in the analysis of both laws and case law. I take note of what you're telling me. This obviously raises questions with regard to interpretation. Either, I'm not going into this debate. What concerns me is that I have the impression that everyone agrees, in any case those who hold the grips of this country, that this type of living room cannot be held. Although it is eminently understandable that some couples are in personal need of children, it is totally unacceptable that associations, often American, use the distress of these parents to make this lucrative market in the sight and knowledge of all, in the sight and knowledge of the State and of justice. However, we have a fairly clear framework for a general ban on the lucrative marketing of the body. These children are reduced and, basically, these women are reduced to a beast produced by a uterus rental and a gamete purchase. That's deplorable. I find it interesting to say, despite our existing legislation, that we are just going to watch this show be held without any intervention from the state. I'm particularly sorry that in the end, this show might be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns a follow-up question to my previous oral question on aggressive advertising of gambling. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your decisive policy on advertising gambling; you want to tackle this through an RB. In your reply to my parliamentary question at the beginning of June, you indicated that it was not possible at that time to comment on the contents of the Royal Decree on which you were working. Meanwhile, we have learned through the media what the pillars of this KB are. Firstly, blacklisted problem players are no longer allowed to receive intrusive e-mails. Secondly, there can be no more gambling advertising during family shows on TV. Thirdly, there will be a restriction on advertising during frequently watched sports competitions. The Association for Alcohol and other Drug Problems has expressed itself reasonably positive about the KB in this area and considers this to be a first step in the right direction. I would like to put the following questions to you on this point. The first anchor point is that no more intrusive e-mails should be sent to problem players who have been placed on the blacklist of gamblers. How many people are we talking about over the years from 2011? What should be understood among problematic players? From when does anyone become a problematic player? How is it tracked down? Who defines when someone is a problematic player? What do you mean by intrusive e-mails? How is intrusive defined in the relevant KB? Does the KB only report mails? What does the KB say about mail or text messages, for example? So will there also be a ban prohibiting any contact with problematic players? What is being done about contacting people who are not yet considered to be a problem player? The second anchor point no longer concerns gambling advertising during family programs on TV and a restriction on advertising during frequently watched sports competitions What do you mean by family programs? Is there a determination of the time or the hour? When is a sports game a lot watched? Is this only about advertising that is temporarily digitally displayed via LED signs or is this also about the signs that are behind the player during interviews? What exactly does this limitation entail? Is it also about shirtsponsoring? Is the limitation expressed in, for example, the time period during which advertising is allowed to appear or in any other way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u22	Mrs Van Hoof, the number of excluded players continues to rise. In 2012 there were 134 761 and at the end of 2013 235 321. In 2014 it was 285 921 and in 2015 309 055. If you want details of the categories of excluded players, I will gladly make them available. I would like to point out that they are not necessarily problem players. Some persons are excluded by the nature of their profession or by collective debt regulation, which is not necessarily the result of excessive gambling behaviour. In the course of 2015, 4 303 people applied for voluntary exclusion, while 1 966 people submitted a request to the Gaming Commission to lift a voluntary entry ban. This means in concrete terms that in 2015 additional 2 337 persons were voluntarily excluded compared to the year before. In 2015, 91 exclusions were approved by the Gaming Commission at the request of an interested third party, such as the partner, the child or the parent. One request for the removal of the exclusion at the request of an interested third party was granted. An important criterion taken into account by the Gaming Commission in eliminating exclusion is the presence of adequate social and psychological guidance. The KB that wants to restrict advertising has been discussed for the second time in the Gaming Commission this morning. Next Thursday, 14 July, the Gaming Commission will give an opinion on the royal decision at a special meeting that will only deal with gambling advertising. In this sense, I do not think it is appropriate to make specific statements on the content of the proposal. Your comments are very much appreciated and will be taken into account in the discussions on KB being held in the Gaming Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u23	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The figures are indeed impressive. We also note that as advertising has increased, the number of problematic players has also increased. Accessibility, of course, has a trigger effect, even among the people who want to gamble. The more available and the more accessible, the more people gamble. The Internet is a very accessible source. I can only applaud your continuing with the royal decision. I hope you'll get as far as you can to shut down that commercial as much as you can. Gambling advertising has become far too accessible, especially when it comes to football matches. It is visible to everyone that a guess can be risked. The number of problematic players indicates that urgent work needs to be done on the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the potpourri II is behind us and many of the things that were previously advocated before the Court of Assists can now be dealt with before the Court of Justice by means of the general correction. You may recall debates in which, among other things, our group's question was raised in order to obtain the assurance that sufficient time would be allocated to witnesses during debates before a proper court if necessary. It was then decided not to put this into legislation. It was assumed that courts were wise enough and wise enough to organise themselves in such a way as to make this possible. Last week we read in the newspapers that criminal attorney Jef Vermassen called the alarm bell. Before that, however, several people called on me to inform me that they will have one day at a murder trial that comes before the correctional court and that it is therefore still difficult to call witnesses. Courts are not obliged to answer the question and may refuse. This also applies, for example, to a law doctor, whose input may be interesting. If they want to hear someone as a party, they have to subpoena them themselves. For next of kin, of course, this is an extra big cost. Moreover, there is also a risk that the decision on the day of trial itself will not be heard because there is not enough time. That worries me, Minister. We know very well that the correction is useful, provided, however, that adequate attention can be paid to these matters, as was said during the debates. It is not a question of futility; it is a question of serious matters. Hence my specific question. If it turns out that, in practice, it is more of a case for the correctional court, would it not be appropriate to take a legislative initiative to ensure that a minimum of essential witnesses can be heard before the correctional court? It is specifically a criminal chamber within the correctional court and I think it would be useful to settle something more than just to leave it to the organisation of the court itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u25	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the great difference between a correctional court and a court of assistants is the absolute oral nature of the hearing on the substance. To the People's Jury, all elements of the judicial investigation must be explained orally by the researchers, the experts and the witnesses. This is a repetition of the elements of charge and charge already contained in the judicial file. The members of the jury will be in contact with the case to be dealt with for the first time after their drawdown. Appeals, on the other hand, are expected to have been thoroughly informed in advance of the entire investigation written down in the minutes, expert reports, claims and so on. If an element is not clear to the court or prosecutor, they will order an additional investigation for the truth finding or call upon a witness to provide clarifications. I have every confidence in the assessment of the magistrates of the seat and of the courthouse about the time a case should take in concrete terms, whether it is about the assessment of a life crime in 2015 there were about 75 assist cases or of other crimes. There have been and will be hearings in ordinary courts on non-life crimes that take days or weeks, depending on the complexity, for example in organized drug trafficking, fraud or major banditism. For example, there were also assistive processes that were settled on three or four days. In the case you mentioned, you express the opinion of an attorney of one of the parties who, on 30 June, made statements on the course of proceedings in a case concerning a corrupted crime that is still pending. The case was opened on 29 June before the Court of Justice in Turnhout and will continue to be dealt with on 5 and 6 October 2016. Each party will, of course, put forward its position in the manner it deems appropriate and, if it considers it necessary, the court may at any time address the questions raised by the parties and, if appropriate, extend the treatment days. I would also like to point out that in such cases it is now possible to appeal, allowing the Court of Appeal to re-examine the case on the substance, while in assistes an appeal procedure was excluded. I am planning both a reform of criminal law and criminal procedural law, in which the concerns you have raised will be the subject of a parliamentary discussion. I have not forgotten, Mrs De Wit, what we said about this during the debate on potpourri I, nor have I forgotten what I said about the evaluation of the possibility of correcting all crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u26	Mr Minister, the evaluation will indeed be a very interesting exercise. I don't doubt that. The case that was raised in the press last week gave rise to my question. However, it is not the first time that I have been called upon to do so. It's not like I don't have faith in the courts. I'm not saying that. Nor is it intended that the whole investigation should be repeated orally before a correctional court. I know clearly the difference between the two procedures. However, I remember very well the words of John Maes, if I am not mistaken, who said that we should not throw the child away with the bath water and that we should try to achieve the fundamental good of an assistive procedure in the correct procedure. I await the evaluation and I am very curious how it has been experienced in practice, what conclusions one will make and what solutions one will ultimately offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u27	Prime Minister, I would like to say that my question, which was combined with another question from myself and Mr Degroote, was addressed to Minister Jambon. Let me give an example from the Kortrijk section, but I am convinced that several zones are facing the problem. Until November 2015, a police officer from the district of Kortrijk, who does not have his own prison, was able to retrieve a file from the registry of the investigation and bring it to the place of detention, where an inmate who is to appear before the council chamber could consult his file. In order to avoid the unnecessary deployment of local police personnel, a pragmatic solution was devised from mid-November 2015, whereby the detainees who wished to access their files and who were to appear before the council chamber on Tuesday or Friday were transferred from the security corps to the court of Kortrijk, where they could look into their files in front of the actual council chamber. The local police then had to register with the Registry of the investigation with two staff for inspection of the file. At the ARO of 2 May 2016, the current investigating judge reported that some problems appeared in the file, in the sense that it has already happened that several detainees wished to see their file and that they were only given a short period of time to do so. The investigating judge proposed that the inspection be carried out one or two working days before the meeting of the council chamber. This raises the problem of transport to court, while they used to be involved in the transport of the security corps, since they had to appear before the relevant council chamber. That decision was introduced unilaterally and has the effect that on one day up to 56 man-hours can be performed to meet, for example, three requests. In times of absolute scarcity of operational police capacity, any deployment should be considered, efficient and effective. Are you aware of the problem? What steps can be taken? On 22 June, you reached an agreement that provides for better cooperation between Justice, lawyers, notaries and bailiffs to further digitize their work. Documents will be sent electronically via an e-box. Is the criminal record included in this? If such a file from the Registry could be delivered in this way at the place of detention, it would result in a huge saving which would not be at the expense of the service. I have the following questions, which I had addressed to Minister Jambon. Should the Security Corps be used as much as possible to carry out the transfer of detainees? What's the status of the security force reform? Can the federal police intervention force be used for this? Is there a possibility to deliver files digitally at the place of detention? Is there any possibility of establishing a uniform regime throughout the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u28	Mr Minister, Mr Top and myself both come from the judicial district of Kortrijk. You understand that we were interpelled by our chiefs of police, who, following a meeting with inter alia investigators, have alerted us about problems in the inspection of files by inmates. Both the security corps and the police are responsible for the supervision and supervision of inmates who wish to access their files. That implies a transport from a prison to the courthouse in Kortrijk. That's usually the old courthouse, but we won't be discussing these problems right now. A practical arrangement to waste as little capacity as possible was adapted, because the prisoners themselves did not have enough time to look into their files. The procedure in Kortrijk, which itself does not have a prison, was then changed unilaterally in the case of Bruges or Ypres. This leads to an increase in the use of police capacity for a number of tasks which are not part of the core tasks of the police. Police forces are already on their gums, threatening basic police care for citizens. I do not need to explain to you that the capacity is experiencing some difficulties due, among other things, to the threat of terrorism level 3, the commitment to the long-term prison strike and the additional security deployment at major events. This calls for urgent adjustment of a number of procedures. In our digitized world, there are plenty of alternatives. If companies are able to hold Skype meetings via secure channels, provide digital access to documents and provide computers and accessories at a lower cost than in the past, modernisation in this area must also be feasible for the Justice Department. Minister, do you have any knowledge of the problems in the judicial district of Kortrijk and possibly in other judicial districts of our country? Will you consult with the various actors in order to find a solution? Are you considering using modern technology to enable secure electronic access from a prison location?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u29	Mr Top, Mr Degroote, I am indeed recently aware of the problems of transferring prisoners to court so that they can look at their files in the province of West Flanders. Until last year, files from the court in Kortrijk and Veurne were transferred to prison by local police after 16:00, which required a lot of additional capacity from the area concerned. At the request of the local police a consultation was planned with the parties concerned, where it was decided to examine the file in the courtroom before the council chamber session. If there are several detainees in one file, it would be treated as the last, thus safeguarding the rights of access to the file. All these measures have the advantage of reducing the capacity of the local police. So far, we have only known of one case where the time for the inspection of the file might have been too short. If it is re-opted to keep the file inspection in prisons after 16:00, capacity must be released. I have issued general directives in this area, which allow the local level to take the most appropriate measures. In addition, I should note that the practice of file inspection in the court, coupled with the transports that should be carried out in any case, is organized in this way almost everywhere in Flanders. In the province of Limburg, for example, a protocol was recently concluded between the local police, the prosecutor's office, the prisons and the security corps. Over a period of two months 116 man-hours were saved, while the right of access to the files was guaranteed. In the future, however, the security corps will be integrated into the federal police force at a new Security Directorate, which will, among other things, take over all the tasks of the police of courts and courts, including the tasks relating to file inspection. Four working groups are currently working on the concrete development of this new corps. The intervention corps does not have the legal mandate to take up that task. I am an absolute supporter of a digital solution in that context. Today we are working on a chain of technological solutions that allow prisoners to stop moving and access their files from prison by electronic means. The Consult Online project has already been made available in several places, in particular Arlen, Berkendael, Marche and Sint-Gillis, after a successful test period. We are now working on the further roll-out. I have been able to observe this method myself in a number of prisons and it really means a great deal of progress. Consult Online assumes that all documents of the file are electronically available and therefore depends on the implementation of the JustScan project. This means that all paper documents are scanned, which currently leads to an increase in the workload in the short term, primarily for the staff in charge of that task. For this reason, solutions are being worked out to ensure that the various documents are supplied as electronically as possible, so that they can easily be added to the file in the Consult-Online application, which has the great advantage that neither files nor prisoners need to be moved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u30	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am, of course, pleased that the digital solution is being looked forward to. In the long term, digitalisation will indeed reduce the workload. In the short term, you refer to a test project, which entails an additional workload, as the documents sent digitally must first be scanned. We must therefore try to achieve full digitalisation as soon as possible, so that Commissioners from different zones no longer have to send us complaints. I refer to your reply yesterday at the joint meeting of the Committees on Home Affairs and Justice on the framework plan on integrated security. It was also about cooperation between the various departments and about cooperation between Justice, police and administrative authorities. You have said that we need to work in an integrated way, for example on a digital level. We must all work on this together. In the zoning chiefs' letter it is pointed out that if the workload in the police zones remains so high due to the method used in the Kortrijk district, it will be forced to reclaim part of the man-hours on the detective capacity. If one reduces the police capacity, it becomes a vicious circle. This will also reduce the workload of the public prosecutors, because there will simply be less influx of police and police work, which is likely to leave the perpetrators at large. It is therefore not a sustainable solution, unless we aim for a very fast, sustainable solution that will reduce police capacity in the different police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You replied at the beginning that you had issued directives. Are these recent directives or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u32	It is a general letter; I will give you the specific date in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u33	I'd like to know. In addition, I note that you have two interim solutions, namely a protocol with police forces and the security corps and a new corps to be set up. We will submit these solutions to our zoning chiefs. I understand that these are temporary solutions. At the same time, I will learn from your answer that you are working on digitisation, which must be the final solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u34	Minister, by a royal decree of 6 June 2016, you decided to temporarily transfer the seat of the justice of peace from the canton of Kraainem – Rhode-Saint-Genèse of Kraainem to Rhode-Saint-Genèse. This decision is part of your Justice Plan, which provides for "considering the possibility of regrouping cantons located in urban areas, which are adjacent and/or already housed in the same building", while stating that "this analysis will reveal whether they can be merged each time into a single justice of peace, in which different magistrates and justices of the peace will work in different chambers." This decision, however, challenged me in that, four days earlier, you signify by post to the mayor of Kraainem that the headquarters of Kraainem was included in a third phase of your Justice plan, which consists of a reconfiguration of the cantons on the basis of better geographical distribution and workload. This transfer will complicate the lives of the Kraainem and Wezembeek-Oppem litigants, communes that are absolutely not bordering Rhode-Saint-Genesis, without any valid reason justifying such a transfer. On the contrary, I would like to remind you that the municipality of Kraainem makes available to the justice system a building in very good condition and covers the costs of hosting the service. The reopening of the seat is therefore legitimately requested by the two linguistic communities represented at the municipal college, as attested by a unanimous decision of the municipal council of 26 April 2016, considering that its closure constitutes a violation of the principle of equality of Belgians with regard to access to justice, contained in articles 10 and 11 of our Constitution. I would like to make sure that this motion has been communicated to you in the communal council, otherwise I will send it to you. Minister, on what specific criteria did you base your decision to transfer the seat? Have you accurately established the canton's workload by disaggregating it by seat? What are your guarantees of the temporary nature of this transfer? It is very important for us to know that. What practical solution would you propose to the people who live in Wezembeek-Oppem and Kraainem, who must urgently go before their justice of the peace and who are unable to go to Rhode-Saint-Genesis, which is 25 kilometres away, the communications being very bad? What are your guarantees of maintaining language facilities in these two seats?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u35	Mrs Caprasse, my plan for justices of peace includes, as you know, three phases. What you are referring to in your question concerns phase 2, i.e. the reorganization of the urban cantons. However, the peace justice of Kraainem is not affected by this reorganization. Kraainem is part of a double canton, a justice of peace consisting of two seats. The centralisation of the double cantons was carried out during phase 1 of the plan, with the exception of a few cases, among which the Kraainem-Rhode-Saint-Genèse file, whose examination was postponed to phase 3 which will carry out a possible redistribution of the cantons. However, the Royal Decree which has been adopted and the current situation are completely independent of all reform plans. Indeed, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation closed the building in Kraainem. The latter, which is owned by the commune, is in poor condition and this inspection service considered that the staff could no longer work there. You're talking about a building in very good condition. I am not in a position to comment on your comments and you will understand that I must stick to the report prepared by the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. In any event, therefore, temporary relocation should be planned, regardless of the decision to be taken in phase 3. It goes without saying that language legislation must always remain guaranteed, but that cannot be a problem, since everything remains within the same justice of peace, but is now housed in another seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u36	In the meantime, Minister, we have done work on the premises where justice of the peace is located. It's important that you know it and we've taken it into account. If the decision you made is temporary, it can already be reviewed. I know many cases of people who need their justice of the peace and who are now completely distraught because of the distance between them and Rhode-Saint-Genesis. I would also like to ask if you have received the motion that was passed into communal council. It is important that you see the message from both municipalities. I will ask the mayor to rewrite you to request an inspection of the premises, to prove that the justice of peace can be restored to its premises. We responded to all the difficulties that had been identified. I hope that we will have a positive answer from you and that these problems will be endorsed for both municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u37	Mr President, Minister, as of last week there has been a ministerial letter in force according to which persons sentenced to less than three years' imprisonment can be released more quickly for the time being. According to the circular, there is reason to deviate temporarily from the dates originally planned to qualify for provisional release. You would like to leave this measure until the end of December. As a reason, you refer to the current prison climate and living and working conditions in prisons, which need to be improved. I took the coalition agreement and this letter is not entirely in line with that, I think. After all, I read there that strengthening the credibility of the sentence is a priority. For this reason, it is also included in the coalition agreement that circular No. 1816 regarding the execution of short sentences from four months, will be reviewed, and not immediately with the intention of releasing people earlier. Minister, what is the right objective of this? What do you want to achieve with this? Is it to prepare the arrival of the prisoners from Tilburg? Or, and then it is in line with the adopted legislation, is it to release foreigners earlier, so that they can serve their sentence elsewhere? Is it realistic, on the basis of this letter, to be able to accommodate all prisoners currently in prison in Tilburg, whose lease ends at the end of this year? How many inmates are eligible for an early provisional release from prison as a result of this letter? Are there profiles of inmates who are not eligible for this early provisional release? Why do you limit the duration of the letter to December? Is there any reason for this specific timing? Maybe I didn't understand or see something, but how does this fit into the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u38	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, allow me to outline the context of the execution of custodial sentences up to and including three years and the related automatic provisional release. In Belgium for a long time, eighteen years, since the abolition of the Lejeune Act of 1888, there has been no formal law on the execution of custodial sentences, the total of which does not exceed three years. The scheme is carried out by means of ministerial conversion letters. On 15 July 2015, I codified the then existing various and unclear regulations in a single letter, without affecting the time conditions or other important principles. In the introductory part of the letter, I made it clear that the letter is in force pending a new legislative initiative which I will take on the implementation of all custodial sentences, which I will comply with the provisions of the coalition agreement. For the reasons set out below, I have indeed issued an instruction with temporary effect until 31 December 2016 to allow the time conditions for the provisional release to take effect earlier. Therefore, the instruction only temporarily amends the Ministerial circular of 15 July 2015 on the time conditions. I come to your first question. With this measure, I aim to resolve the problems facing the prisons recently and to offer decent detention. The latter is also a provision of the government agreement, which, in the penitentiary context, talks about paying attention to human dignity. The recent problems are the strikes in prisons, which lasted almost two months and prevented prisoners from even guaranteeing basic rights, the loss of capacity in Vorst with a reduction in capacity from 405 to 180 places from the end of October, i.e. 225 less, and in Merksplas a temporary loss of 263 places, of which 112 will soon be available again. I come to your second question. It is true that, with the closure of the Tilburg prison at the end of this year, the 500 prisoners residing there must also be housed in prisons on Belgian territory. The pressure on the prison population will therefore increase. Today, it is difficult to estimate exactly how many prisoners will be reduced by temporary measures on a daily basis in prisons. According to our prognosis, this year we are talking about 150 people.The prisoners concerned still have to go to prison for part of their custodial sentence, albeit with less than one or more months. I come to your fourth question. Off-the-shelf exemptions on a fixed date are excluded: those convicted of sexual crimes against minors and those convicted of terrorist activities. For them, the penitentiary administration examines whether an exemption is appropriate and, in a positive case, what conditions are attached to it. Convicts who have been made available to the criminal court shall also be excluded. I come to your fifth question. As the penitentiary crisis is a temporary one, so is the measure. To your sixth question, whether the letter fits in with the coalition agreement, I have already replied in the introduction. I would like to make it clear that the measure will temporarily lead to a greater outflow from prisons of sentenced persons with a total sentence of up to three years. It will therefore be almost exclusively those convicted who have no right of residence in Belgium and therefore have to be removed from their territory. Other convicts, mostly Belgians, must exercise the reduced part of their sentence outside prison under electronic supervision. For this reason, my cabinet informed the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and his cabinet in the framework of the Working Party on Coordination Return in two meetings, so that both the penitentiary administration and the Department on Foreign Affairs are prepared for the new and temporary measures. Since the beginning of the legislature, I have been working closely with Mr Francken on expulsions and repatriations of convicted persons, which leads to very good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u39	Minister, we can see from the figures that the cooperation between you and Mr Francken has indeed already brought many people out of prison to serve their sentence in the home country. If the measure fits in, I think it is quite a different story. However, if it were not, it would be difficult for me to do so with a view to the execution of the sentence. I think that we should be clear about that. There must be credible punishment. I found it very difficult to see people being released from prison all of a sudden. Moreover, I do not think it is so obvious for the Registrys and the prisons to have to revisit all these end dates. I am glad that this is a temporary measure. On the one hand, I understand that the situation in prisons has been difficult and is still difficult, and on the other hand, there is still such a thing as punishment and punishment. We must not, of course, reduce the penalties because we cannot offer the necessary infrastructure; that does not seem to me to be the right signal. I do welcome the context you have outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic468x.u40	(At the request of the Minister, in the report of the Committee on Justice of 29 June 2016 (C459), page 9, left column, sixth paragraph, first sentence, the words "s' should be read as "s'.
