ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u1	Minister, on 30 August last the European Commissioner for Competition communicated the decision of the European Executive concerning the legality of the aid granted by the Irish State to Apple. According to the Commission, the agreements concluded between the two parties between 1991 and 2007 are indeed illegal State aid. As a result, it is up to the US giant to repay an amount of EUR 13 billion, plus interest rates that correspond to Apple's outstanding taxes in Ireland between 2003 and 2014. The Commission also clarified that a country which considered itself injured by having seen the proceeds of sales made in its territory go to Ireland in order to avoid tax, could claim its share of that amount. This potentially concerns Belgium. Since that announcement, the leaders of the Union's member countries have made diverging speeches about the attitude to be taken. Thus, your French counterpart, Michel Sapin, indicated that France would not claim taxes not collected in the Socialist Hexagon. On the other hand, Mr Rajoy's Spanish Government would logically like to claim his dues. Minister, can you tell me what will be Belgium's attitude regarding the possibility of recovering part of the amount that Apple will have to pay? How high has Belgium been prejudiced by the agreements between the Irish authorities and Apple? Have you ever instructed your administration to study Apple's case in the light of the European decision? If not, do you intend to instruct your administration to conduct such an analysis? When will the government make a decision? Are you going to give instructions for this to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u2	Minister, following the decision on Apple, you said that, since Europe no longer tolerates niche measures, it is necessary to reform corporate taxation. Minister, does this mean that, unlike previous statements, you no longer see the benefits of tax competition at European level? Do you agree with me that Europe and the Member States must move quickly towards the CCCTB and agreements on tariffs such as the introduction of a minimum rate? My second question has undoubtedly already been introduced by Mr Gilkinet. The technology giant must repay some EUR 13 billion of state aid to Ireland. Some of these taxes may be due to other countries. Will Belgium investigate whether it can claim part of these taxes? What's the progress on this investigation? What steps will you take to safeguard the rights of the Belgian Treasury?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u3	Belgian corporate tax has traditionally been characterised by a high nominal rate, while at the same time a very rich variety of tax incentives, as it is called, in the form of all kinds of deductions and tax credits. As a result, the real rate is often much lower than the nominal rate of 34% today, as you know. The efficiency and sustainability of such a system are increasingly under pressure. Several special schemes and deductions are under attack, not least from Europe. Look at the excess profit rulings. Moreover, it is clear that, under the impetus of the G20, the OECD and the EU, we are moving towards a more harmonised basis. The recently adopted ATAD is the best example of this. This evolution has certainly not come to an end. Therefore, it is better to play proactively to avoid a loss of competitiveness, jobs and investment. We need to achieve a thorough simplification of corporate taxation, which will, among other things, lead to greater legal certainty and justice, which in turn will benefit economic evolution, job creation and so on. Belgium should create a fiscally competitive environment for its companies, however, in a transparent and fair framework respecting the rules of the internal market, in particular as regards State aid. The European Commission has indeed announced a new proposal for a directive on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base in the fourth quarter of 2016. As long as the new CCCTB proposal is not on the table, I do not think it would be wise to comment on it. More specifically with regard to Apple, I can tell you that the European Commission blames Ireland for granting illegal state aid to Apple in the form of unfair tax advantages, amounting to EUR 13 billion. Both the Irish government and Apple have decided to appeal the European Commission's repayment decision. In view of the professional secrecy established by law, it is not possible to provide further details on this investigation. I can add, however, that the general administration of the BBI is indeed following up on this dossier and, more specifically, examining to what extent part of the turnover declared in Ireland should be allocated to our country taxly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u4	Mr Minister, the European states should come out of this kind of suicidal system where each competes with the other from a tax point of view. This benefits only multinational corporations that have the ability to move their profits from one state to another. I hope that we will move quickly on this. In the meantime, examples should be given. I expected your answer. As usual, you invoke professional secrecy related to a specific case or firm. Nevertheless, I take note of the fact that the ISI is conducting an investigation into this matter. Once a decision has been made by the ISI – a decision that will depend on the outcome of the appeal by Apple and the Irish State – it will have to be communicated so that other firms that would be tempted by the same arrangements come to the conclusion that this is no longer possible in the European states, and in particular in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u5	Minister, as far as my first question is concerned, I would like to remind you, if necessary, that my group is in favour of European harmonisation, of which the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base is part. We hope that, contrary to what we have unfortunately seen in the past, you will be an incentive rather than a brake, for reasons which you yourself have indicated. If we want to achieve fair and correct taxes that do not represent a competitive advantage for one country or another, that is a step we must take. I've established that you said you'd wait a while. I haven't heard anything about your point of view on tariffs. I personally fear that if we come to a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, we will see competition on prices. That would mean that we are no further away and that we are just as far away from correct and fair corporate taxes that place all countries and companies at the same level. The recovery of Apple then. I take note that the BBI is working on that. Can I assume that this means that you agree with the principle and that if the BBI succeeds in assigning a taxable basis to Belgium, you feel that Belgium should recover it? Personally, I hope so. For your information, I would like to inform you that countries have already preceded us. Japan, among others, has already managed to locate a taxable base in Japan and has already asked the Irish authorities to recover its share of the tax revenues that were avoided by constructions through Ireland. I hope that the fact that the BBI was allowed to launch this investigation means that you agree with the principle that we must recover, and that the investigation of the BBI can only result in us knowing the correct size of the taxable base. Belgium can then turn to Ireland to ask back what our Treasury is entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u6	Mr President, Minister, since the end of the holidays, there have been several reports of difficulties within Ethias: the insurance group would have failed a European test stress this summer and its director was thanked at the beginning of September. There is always a problem with savings books that are too well paid and that weigh on its balance sheet. According to information published, I think, in the newspaper Le Soir, you would have asked the National Bank to study the hypothesis of a takeover of Ethias by Belfius. A series of new elements have emerged since I asked this question: the search for a reinsurer by Ethias and a new offer to the holders of savings books. In any case, there is great concern about the potential economic impacts of the bankruptcy of a group that operates fairly well in its non-life and employment sectors. I would like to take stock with you of this important issue. Minister, can you tell me what the current financial situation of the Ethias Group is? What is the status of dealing with the First problem? What is the stock and the number of remaining customers? Is it envisaged that a reinsurer would be used to manage this risk? At what cost and under what contractual conditions? Do you confirm the failure of European tests? Why did Ethias fail these stress tests? Do you confirm the need for recapitalisation of Ethias? How high? How long should it take? What are the preferred sources of funding to achieve this? Why was the director of Ethias thanked? What was the position taken by State officials through the SFPI on this resignation? How was it replaced? Do you confirm the mandate given to the NBB to study the hypothesis of a resumption of Ethias by Belfius? What was the rationale for this request? Does the BNB study also address the employment impact of a merger? Should the Ethias stand stand also be studied by the BNB? Do you have any of the BNB's findings on this? What are they? If not, when should they be provided to you? What will be the consequences for employment of the difficulties encountered by Ethias and the federal government's responses to them? Can you commit to maintaining employment within Ethias?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u7	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, to answer the first question, I would point out that in July 2014, the European Commission forced Ethias to take further steps to speed up the closure of First accounts. This is why Ethias offered various Switch shares to its policyholders with First contracts prior to September 2003, first-generation contracts named First A. These shares included various incentives to bring the contracts into full or partial closure. Switch IV, conducted in the first quarter of 2015, offered First A customers an exit premium equivalent to four years of interest in the event of a total or partial redemption, with a minimum of EUR 100,000. These contracts entered into before September 2003 enjoy a lifetime guaranteed rate of 3.44 per cent on average. This transaction was a great success, with buybacks of the order of EUR 1.9 billion in 2015, equivalent to 57% of the reserves existing at the end of December 2014. The number of contracts increased from more than 53,000 to less than 27,000. The cost of the operation, which amounted to 243 million, directly impacted the 2015 Ethias result. But the offer has led to a significant and recurring improvement in the solvency margin under "Solvency II", the new solvency regulation in force since 1 January 2016. A Switch IV action, launched at the end of 2015, has made withdrawals possible. Ethias continues to study various actions or other means in order to reduce the outstanding First account contracts. With regard to stress tests, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) analysis tool is available to the supervisor. These stress tests are carried out with a large majority of companies in the sector. Insurance companies had to hand over the test stress results to the supervisor by mid-July. These results are currently being analysed and validated, which requires considerable effort. Indeed, this is the first time that insurance undertakings have been subject to such an exercise, since the introduction of the new solvency rules, known as "Solvency II". Since the results are still under discussion, I can only express myself on the basis of preliminary results which are still subject to change. EIOPA plans to publish aggregated and non-individual results by early September. The aim of these tests is to analyse the sensitivity of the European insurance sector to certain market shocks. It is therefore not an exercise that results in a "successful" or "failed" conclusion. The analysis of the sensitivity of companies to the different shocks will serve as a basis for supervisory tasks, day-to-day, to monitor individual cases. As regards recapitalisation, Ethias reported a solvency ratio under the new Solvency II scheme of 125% as at 30 June this year. The minimum requirement for insurance undertakings is 100%. As with most insurance companies with a life insurance portfolio, low interest rates are a challenge for Ethias. This is why the company analyses the sensitivity of its portfolios to different financial parameters and shocks. This includes, among other things, the stress tests of EIOPA. The analysis of these results may indicate the need to adopt measures in the Head of Ethias to strengthen the robustness of the company's solvency position. These results and the actions to be taken will be reviewed by the company's board of directors. It is the board of directors which, as the legal administrative body of Ethias, took the decision on the CEO at its meeting on 6 September. It is up to the company and its statutory administrative bodies to provide for the replacement of Mr Bernard Thiry. Pending its replacement, the functions of the management committee must be reviewed so as not to undermine the continuity of the company's activities. Furthermore, any application for an executive or non-executive director must, pursuant to Article 81 of the Law of 13 March 2016 on the Statute and Control of Insurance or Reinsurance Undertakings, be submitted in advance to the National Bank which assesses whether the candidate has the necessary professional repute and the appropriate expertise. This is the Bank's fit and proper review throughout the mandate of the managers of the companies under control. The departure of the CEO of Ethias is due to a divergence of views within the Management Committee. The replacement procedure is under discussion. The SFPI, on behalf of the Belgian State, like the other public shareholders of Vitrufin, closely follows the procedure for replacing the CEO. With regard to the role of the BNB, the National Bank did not receive from the Government any tasks relating to the management of State participations, which would not be its role. It obviously maintains regular contacts with the authorities and may, on its own initiative or at the request of the authorities, raise points of attention of a prudential nature on the basis of information known to those authorities. Finally, Ethias continues to carry out the overhead savings plan decided in 2015. This includes a downsizing following the implementation of an end-of-career plan. There's nothing else planned at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for this rather comprehensive point. I have not learned many new things except that you overturn the fact that the government would have asked the BNB for a study of a takeover of Ethias by Belfius, which was published in the press. But the press does not always tell the truth or is not always well informed, to say things more neutrally. For the rest, I confirm our concern about the future of this insurance company, which represents a lot of jobs, which is well established in Belgium, which functions rather well in its non-life branch, which, like others, has taken financial risks which were not considered by offering excessive rates, at the time accepted by the supervisory bodies which also have their responsibilities. I would therefore like to thank you for paying particular attention, either directly or indirectly, to the representatives of the Belgian State in Ethias as regards its future and the future of employment in this institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u9	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back to 12 September and was actually drafted with a view to the Ecofin meeting on 10 October 2016. I will therefore amend my original question. When I saw the results of the meeting of 10 October 2016, my heart leaped with joy. Finally progress! There was consensus on a kind of core engine, in the sense that there was agreement on six of the 23 building blocks. However, little progress has been made since then. However, a few weeks ago someone told me that the Belgian minister was not present at the meeting of 10 October 2016. Is it true you weren't present? Is it a one-off progress, due to the fact that you weren't there? I'm not really comfortable with it. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u10	Actually, yes, I think we will make more progress. Anyway, Minister, I am concerned. It may well be that this progress was made precisely because you were not there. I took the liberty of plowing through your policy paper again. I note that not only our chairman, Mr Eric Van Rompuy, and his party remain hungry with their added value tax. I'm still hungry with my FTT, too. There is not a word of that in your policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u11	That doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u12	Doesn't that mean anything? I don't know. Of course, you have other levers. Your party is in the government. My party's not in the government. So I'm worried. The first progress on the FTT since Minister Van Overtveldt became Minister of Finance came at a meeting where he was not present. Based on his policy paper, he does not seem to make this a priority. I'll tell you this by way of introduction. I would like to take this opportunity, Minister, to ask you two questions about the debates that are still going on. I'm taking out two that seem important to me. The first concerns the need for sufficiently broad coverage so that the tax could achieve its double objective: financial stability, on the one hand, sufficient tax revenues, on the other hand. My question concerns the Belgian pension funds, which I know you will postpone for you in the negotiations. These must be excluded. If you do that, the base will be significantly reduced. I have already asked you the question once, but you have still not convinced me. How is it possible that you continue to postpone that argument for you, while it is clear that most financial transactions based on pension funds are already excluded from the scope of an FTT. Why do you make such a battle point of the 20 or 30 percent operations that remain? I really don't understand. Rather, I believe that we should also subject pension funds to the FTT, if only to prevent them from taking irresponsible financial risk derivatives. The FTT brings financial stability and pension funds, I believe, need stability. The second point that remains open concerns tariffs. Which foot is one going to give to the speculative tax? If we want stability and revenue for new public funds, we need the highest possible rate. Will you continue to place the pension funds on the table as a demand? Will you take action to provide as low a fee as possible for the FTT? So far, my two questions and my reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u13	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, you may recall that on 10 October we were fully in the budget issue and that my absence at the meeting where the FTT was discussed had everything to do with our budgetary position. However, this did not prevent me from making clear agreements with the representative of the FPS, who will follow up these cases and who will always be my alternate in similar cases, on the position to be adopted on the various points of discussion. I have always consistently accepted the attitude that is in line with the coalition agreement. I know you're bothering me about that, but that's, uh... excuse me, my boldness, your problem. We must pay attention to the impact on real economic activity. Operations of pension funds and insurance undertakings should be excluded. Moreover, the impact on government debt must be taken into account, both in terms of the cost of financing the government debt and the liquidity available to finance our government debt. This was perfectly interpreted by my replacement. The fact that some progress has been made cannot be attributed to my physical absence. It is the normal result of normal discussions between well-briefed persons. As far as coverage is concerned, the problem with the FTT remains that there are ten of us and that 18 EU countries are not participating in it. The latter includes the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Over the past few weeks and months, we have been somewhat touched by the restructuring wave that has gone through the Belgian banking sector. I'm just gonna give this to you for reflection. It's certainly not a firm position. The fact that the introduction of such a tax would not happen in countries such as the Netherlands and Luxembourg, however small the valuation rate would be, will of course have an impact on the transaction volume of the Belgian banks and therefore certainly also on the employment within those banks. I therefore call on everyone to think carefully about what this means for our banking landscape and everything related to it in the concrete situation that is now under way, in which the FTT is being discussed by ten countries, with the exception of the Netherlands and Luxembourg, among others. The chances of both countries joining in the short term, given the statements made by the finance ministers concerned, are very, very small. As far as pension funds are concerned, I do not have a specific view on this. As part of the government agreement, we agreed that pension funds and insurance companies should not be affected. That is a position that I consistently defend in accordance with the coalition agreement. Finally, as far as pricing is concerned, it is true that this discussion is still open and that there is a need for effective consideration of what one wants to achieve. In order to prevent speculation, a high rate must be given to certain transactions which appear to be speculative or which are referred to as speculative. Do you want to get in? That is a fundamentally different option and then one has to apply a rate. If we want income, we do not want to hinder the transactions on which the tax is based too much, because we would miss the objective of income. This is a discussion on which there is still no definitive conclusion within the group of ten countries, whether the emphasis should be on limiting a limited number of transactions via a high rate or whether a relatively low rate should be applied, a not too burdensome rate, so that it is possible to achieve significant revenue effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u14	Thank you, Minister. I must confess that I didn't see it when my source told me you weren't here on October 10th. I didn't want to give the impression that you're a minister who doesn't do his job. However, I noticed too much: the first time there was progress, Minister Van Overtveldt was not there. You were therefore not present for reasons which I would say are understandable. I would like to respond with three points. Firstly, I would like to call on the whole government to be consistent with what is being said on the international scene. I have found that the Prime Minister for the UN General Assembly has said that I am now going to give three quotes... Belgium will set up a financial transaction tax together with ten other EU countries......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Second quote: "We must succeed in removing the technical and political obstacles." Third and Last Quote: "It is a question of elementary justice." That is what Belgium is saying on the international scene, but I note that, since this government came into office, little or no progress has been made and that Belgium is particularly active in putting on the table all kinds of additional problems, some of which are understandable but a large number can be eliminated altogether. Secondly, with regard to one of those obstacles that Belgium places on the table, namely the fear that the tax would increase the cost of financing the Belgian public debt, I would like to say that renowned economists and specialists such as Olivier De Schutter, Philippe Van Paris and Frank Vandenbroucke believe that this is not the case at all. Thirdly, Minister, I hope that this may be an incentive for you from a poll carried out in Belgium. 82 percent of Belgians believe that the financial sector should be asked to contribute to the long-term costs of the financial crisis, 61 percent of Belgians are in favour of a financial transaction tax and 65% of Belgians believe that Belgium should play a much more constructive role in the creation of that financial transaction tax. Mr Minister, may this be an incentive for you to pass on your bad habits and from now on be a fervent defender of the financial transaction tax and a man who has accelerated the arrival of that tax in Europe or at least in those ten countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u15	Minister, I have a number of specific questions about carat tax. We will be able to discuss this further later. I have read the position of the European Commission which refers to a study carried out by Belgium by a consultative agency. How many companies were signed up to compete for that assignment? When did this happen? When was the contract awarded? Under what procedure was the contract awarded? To whom and for what amount? On which budget article was this amount charged? My second question concerns the discussions that have taken place with the European Commission on carat tax. Who represented our country in these different conversations? Was that the administration or was that your cabinet? Did one or more experts assist themselves in this? Were they also physically present at the meetings with the European Commission? How many of those meetings did that happen? With regard to the assistance of external experts in the notification of the measures as possible State aid, when was that contract awarded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u16	I can be very brief about your first question. The study to which you refer was carried out at the initiative of the Antwerp World Diamond Center. The government neither my policy cell nor my administration are caught up in this study. There is no question of a public contract. This study was assessed on its merits by the European Commission services. Furthermore, in the context of the notification of the measure as possible State aid, there have been contacts with the European Commission at various levels. It concerns different levels of policy and also different administrations. There was also a telephone consultation between myself and Commissioner Vestager. Since it was the objective to achieve a guaranteed increased contribution by the sector, it was also regularly linked back to the sector federation in order to make a good assessment of the state of play and the path to be taken. The result is therefore a system that guarantees a stable, secure and higher contribution because of the sector, i.e. an additional EUR 50 million per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u17	Minister, were external experts involved in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u18	To my knowledge, discussions with the European Commission have always been conducted by people from the administration or the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u19	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2015, it became clear that 500 SMEs investing in the film industry through the tax shelter scheme would not obtain a tax certificate. All SMEs concerned had invested in projects of the production company Corsan. Corsan would have violated the conditions of the tax shelter legislation, making it impossible for the tax authorities to provide SMEs with a certificate. Without that tax certificate, SMEs will not be exempted and thus tax on the investment will have to be paid. Meanwhile, a court case has been opened, in which there has not yet been a ruling, in order to obtain a tax certificate. As long as the ruling is not there, SMEs, who invested in good faith, have no legal certainty about that exemption. If they wait for the judgment, they risk being taxed later and having to pay any interest or increases. Let them already assess, then they should immediately pay more taxes, when they always assumed that they did not have to pay those taxes. Consequently, they have also paid too little in advance. Therefore, SMEs face a dilemma. It concerns some 500 payments or executions of the tax shelter for SMEs. My questions are as follows. You followed Corsan's file. Is there a solution in the making? In which direction does the solution go?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u20	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, Rule 194ter, Paragraph 4, paragraph 1, WIB92 subjects the granting and maintenance of the temporary exemption of amounts invested under the tax shelter to a set of conditions. Where one or other condition is no longer complied with or interrupted during any taxable period, the previously exempted profit shall be considered as profit from that taxable period. Within four years of the conclusion of the framework agreement, investors shall submit certificates to their valuation service. These certificates are issued by the Community concerned and by the valuation service on which the company depends on audiovisual works, if all the conditions for exemption are complied with. The conditions are not met if, for example, the envisaged film was not realized or in the event of substitution, i.e. if there is another alternative in place of the envisaged film, so that the certificates are not delivered. If the investor is unable to submit the certificates, the previously exempted profits shall be considered as profits of the taxable period during which the four-year period expires. In this respect, the tax situation of investors should be corrected if necessary. This means that negligence remains are due and there may be a tax increase. My administration is looking at the attitude it will adopt in the dossier you have mentioned, of course after careful examination of the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u21	We were not unaware of the legislation as such, Minister. It is clear that we are dealing here with a practice of someone who has acted as an intermediary for the tax shelter but who has not followed the legislation in the end. It is, of course, very difficult to get a visit as an SME from such an institution that does have the recognition to do so but ultimately does not comply with the case. It is then terribly difficult for the investor who is in good faith. We're talking about 500 files. I would therefore ask your administration to follow this closely so that the good intentions of those SMEs are not questioned. I hope that these people will be able to enjoy the benefits in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u22	Mr Minister, when a common attack is established, the duty-free sum per spouse is fixed and the supplements referred to in Article 132, WIB92, are charged to the spouse with the highest taxable income. In its judgment in Case C-303/12 Imfeld and Garcet, of 12 December 2013, the Court of Justice held that Article 49 of the EC Treaty must be interpreted as meaning that it precludes the application of a tax regime of a Member State such as that at issue in the main proceedings, the effect of which is that a couple living in that State and acquiring income both in that State and in another Member State actually loses a certain tax advantage as a result of the way in which that advantage is charged, whereas that couple would receive that advantage if the spouse with the highest income did not acquire his full income in another Member State. The Belgian Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 24 April 2014, extended the reasoning of the Court of Justice to workers, in particular for the application of Article 45 on the free movement of workers within the Community: "For reasons identical to those of the judgment of the Court of Justice of 12 December 2013, it should be decided that Article 134 undermines the fundamental freedom guaranteed by Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Court therefore concludes that Article 134 of the WIB92 infringes Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, read in conjunction with Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The case-law is based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court and considers that the automatic allocation of the allowance for child burden to the wife with the highest taxable income is problematic, both from the point of view of constitutional equality and European law. In response to the judgments of the Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, the administration issued two circular letters, Ci.RH.331/633,468 of 1 July 2014 and Ci.RH.331/634.229 of 11 August 2014. According to the Antwerp appeal court, these circulars are not relevant. On the one hand, these circulars cannot prejudice the law and the judgments of the Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, on the other hand, the administration does not consider these circulars to be applicable in a situation in which a family earns remuneration in Belgium and in the Netherlands. In previous replies to several oral questions in the Finance and Budget Committee, by Mr Verherstraeten Mrs Wouters and Mr Vanvelthoven, you confirm that the administration will not bring an appeal against the judgment of the Antwerp appeal court and that this judgment will be enforced. The increase in the tax-free allowance for dependents will be applied without the payment of such allowances to the spouse with the highest taxable income exempted. The FPS Finance works out proposals and also charts their budgetary implications. The proposals will be discussed within the government and submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. It is almost impossible to write all the taxable persons concerned individually. A procedure may be initiated. More information can be obtained from the tax office and from the contact centre. Were there any new communications in Parliament after 16 April 2016? Can you tell us how far the FPS Finance is going with the elaboration of its proposal? In other words, what is the situation with this dossier, which has been discussed here a few times?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u23	Mr Van Biesen, you asked a very long question. I hope my brief answer will satisfy you. Within the government, a solution to this problem is rapidly being worked out. Pending that, the administration concludes an administrative solution for the 2017 tax year. In this way, we will try to avoid any further objections from the taxpayers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u24	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u25	Minister, my question includes a small summary of Brussels Airport and shareholding. In 2004, Belgium's national airport, previously owned exclusively by the state, became a bit Australian, since it was bought up to 70% by the Macquarie investment fund. In 2007, the figure rose to 75 per cent. In 2011, with the arrival of the Ontario Teachers' Pension Fund, he also became a little Canadian. On October 14, the press told us that the tax construction of Brussels Airport made it a Luxembourg entity. It is Brussels Airport Investments, domiciled in Luxembourg, which holds it at 55%. Another company, Certi-Baisa, established in Belgium, owns 20% but is itself wholly owned by two Luxembourg subsidiaries. The Belgian State still owns the remaining 25%. As has already been pointed out in plenary or committee, there is nothing illegal to see a society, even if it has a qualifier such as "national", held by a foreign company in a Europe dedicated to free movement. Apart from the symbolic side, one may wonder why the investors concerned preferred to live in Luxembourg, what benefits they derive from it and, above all, how the State reacts, a shareholder of 25% through the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (SFPI). Officially and completely legally, after Brussels Airport paid some taxes in Belgium, it was €246.9 million in dividends that were redistributed to shareholders over the last three years, 75% of which went back to Luxembourg - an amount to which repayments of a loan were added. Indeed, the Luxembourg parent company also serves as a bank for its Brussels "daughter". For example, Brussels Airport has granted it a substantial credit - more than 700 million euros - on which it pays interest. According to Arnaud Feist, CEO of the airport, interviewed in the press last October, "the assembly (would) have been approved in 2007 in common agreement with the Belgian authorities through a tax ruling. The loan was necessary to achieve a valid rating with credit rating agencies." I will therefore ask you three questions, one of which has already been dealt with in committee. Do you find it normal for a company such as Brussels Airport, whose state owns 25%, to do tax optimization in Luxembourg? Should not the state play an example role in terms of taxation? What were the State's guidelines to the SFPI in this case? It represents the State on the board of directors of Brussels Airport; therefore, what were the directives given, the position adopted by it on this tax optimisation – to say no more via the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? Although this has already been discussed in committee, I reiterate my request for the hearing of the SFPI, not only on Brussels Airport, but on all its participations. It is a small reminder to the chairman and the committee to see if it can be organised, because in such cases it is important for the future of companies in which the state has stakes, but also to see what role it can play in these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u26	Mr Vanden Burre, the acquisition of Macquarie's stake at the airport dates back to 2004, following a partner search process, and is the subject of an agreement of 10 November 2004 concluded by the State. At the time, he remained the owner of BIAC's minority securities and was therefore a party to the agreements, but by the SFPI. Macquarie actually invested in the intervention of a Luxembourg company, which was and still is in accordance with the laws. The 2007 restructuring was accepted by the State and the stake in BIAC was subsequently brought to SFPI on June 6, 2007. Nothing important has been changed to the structure on the investor side. It will subsequently evolve, particularly as Ontario Teachers enter capital. The Brussels Airport reorganization contract was signed on 19 June 2007. The shareholder loan in question is a profit participating loan which has been gradually repaid. This is an additional cash injection from shareholders, subject to bank loans, to strengthen the financial strength of the airport and thus maintain a satisfactory rating. SFPI did not have the possibility to ask its co-contractor to set up a company in Belgium as the holder of the shares. As regards a possible hearing of the SFPI, I refer you to what was concluded on the order of business in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u27	Minister, thank you for this rather technical answer. However, you do not really answer the question. I myself said that, from a legal point of view, there was no obvious infringement at first sight. Do you think, however, as Minister of Finance and therefore Minister responsible for the SFPI, that it is normal, exemplary and even ethical that a company which is 25% owned by the Belgian State should make tax optimisation in Luxembourg? Tax optimisation is obvious here. I would have liked to have your views, as Minister of Finance, on this situation, as well as on the SFPI. So I'm still hungry. I think it is important to take a political position on this issue. You have given me only one technical answer, which I take note of. Do you find it politically normal for the State to participate in some way in this kind of fiscal optimisation in Luxembourg and for SFPI, as a 25% owner, to follow this kind of practice? We know, however, that the value of example is important, certainly in relation to all the companies in this country which do not have the possibility or the desire, fortunately, morally, to make tax optimisation at that level. I think that the state should have an exemplary role and I would have liked your political and ethical opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u28	A letter was sent at the end of June to clarify the concept of "rental value'. The letter of conversion came after an unfavourable judgment of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, which found that the existing rules concerning second stays abroad, including in France, were discriminatory. In the circular, the tax authorities implicitly confirm the judgment of the Court of Justice. The result is that most French second residences will now be taxed more favourably than before. However, with this letter of conversion, not all the problems have yet been solved. The letter only clarifies how the concept of rental value should be filled in for second stays in France. For those who have a second stay in a European Member State which does not know the concept of flat-rate rental value, the letter does not provide a solution. The discrimination compared with the owners of a second stay in Belgium thus remains possible. Can you explain how the second stays in countries other than France should be indicated? Can this be done in the same way as in France? Is it possible to send a letter about this too? Can you confirm to me regarding second stays in the Netherlands, not rented or rented out to private persons, that these may be declared at a rate of 4% of the WPA value of the real estate in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u29	Mr Van Biesen, the circular clarifies how the rental value of a non-rented property is determined abroad and confirms that the administration also accepts a value determined or expressly approved by a foreign government. The circular is therefore certainly not limited to a real estate situated in France, which was merely given as an example. As another example, the rental value of a non-rented property in the Netherlands, as is the case under the current Dutch legislation on income tax, can be determined on the basis of the WOZ value, multiplied by 4% or a pro rata of 4%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u30	So I have to understand that the system you proposed for France is actually applicable to all countries. Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u31	Mr Minister, under Article 219 of the Income Tax Code a separate attack can be made on what is called hidden gains. Recent case law accepts that the separate assessment of Article 219 of the WIB applies to hidden excess profits where the taxpayer cannot prove that they are still present in the company's assets. I refer here to a Brussels judgment of 1 February 2012, a judgment of the Antwerp appeal court of 23 November 2010 and a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 13 February 2014. In particular, it has been concluded that the additional profits established on the basis of the flat-rate basis of assessment are subject to the separate assessment provided for in Article 219 of the WIB in the absence of probative accounting. In this respect, Mr Minister, could the separate attack of Article 219 of the WIB apply to a hidden excess profit determined on the basis of the minimum fixed profits of Article 342 of the WIB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u32	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Antwerp to which you refer has not yet entered into force by way of res judicata. As soon as that ruling is final, I will have it examined in relation to the application of the individual assessment of the minimum fixed profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u33	Minister, do you know why it has not yet come into force? Is there a profession? Do you know that? I'm just asking to know when I can ask you the question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u34	I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u35	Mr Minister, in the Committee on Business and Business, we have talked a number of times about the introduction of the student entrepreneur's statute. The government has apparently decided that the status of student entrepreneur can be introduced, according to a reply from Mr Borsus in committee. He is preparing a draft law to be submitted and dealt with in one of the coming weeks in the Business Commission. There were still problems with the financial aspects and the tax regime of that statute. Minister, have you already consulted Minister Borsus and his cabinet on the draft bill? What are the contours within which the student entrepreneur's status will have to fit, within your competences? What financial and fiscal provisions do you think need to be adapted in order to achieve the Statute as soon as possible? Can you clarify the timing of the implementation of the Staff Regulations? Mr Borsus spoke about the autumn before the draft law was submitted, but he is dependent on the input of the FPS Finance for the tax status. How do you see that? How soon can that be fixed? After all, we all agree that the statute must be put in order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u36	In July, the government adopted a preliminary draft law regulating the status of the student-self-employed person. The draft will be submitted to Parliament in the near future. With regard to the social aspects of the draft, I would like to refer to Mr Borsus. For the fiscal part, the government proposes to treat not only the income of student entrepreneurs but also the income of students in a system of dual learning in the same way as the income of job students on the part of the means of subsistence, namely the first disc of EUR 2 610. The indexed amount for the 2017 tax year shall not be considered as a means of subsistence. In this way, more students-entrepreneurs and pupils in a dual learning system will still be liable for tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u37	Do I understand that you want to treat students in a dual learning system in the same way as students-entrepreneurs in higher education? On the disc of EUR 2 610 as a minimum of existence will no tax be levied?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u39	So there won't be a reduced rate for what comes up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u40	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u41	Minister, I have questioned you a number of times about the disturbed zones, the Kempen and Limburg. We are very pleased that this has been granted and that the reduction in the wage burden for the assisted areas has been granted. In the meantime, a relaxation of the regime took place at the end of 2015. This was approved by a programme law at the end of last year. You have always indicated that legislation and regulations should be regularly evaluated in order to allow for adjustments or to correct unintentional anomalies. I would ask you to make a new assessment. To a written or oral question from me in June, you replied that, since one of the conditions for the reduction of wages is the maintenance of the new jobs for SMEs for three years and for large companies for five years, a thorough assessment can only be carried out after some time. However, interim, annual evaluations are possible without making in-depth assessments with the condition of maintaining jobs. So I'm asking for a new evaluation in the next few weeks when we're another year ahead. In particular, I would like to ask you about the employment effects of this scheme. That question was also put to the Minister of Work, who referred me to you, because you are competent for the whole scheme, including employment effects. Firstly, can you clarify how many new jobs have been created since the introduction of the destabilized zones regime? Can you give an overview of the additional employment for the province of Limburg, on the one hand, and the province of Antwerp, on the other? Can you confirm whether there has been an increase in employment since the easing of conditions at the end of 2015? Secondly, can you confirm that, by analogy with last year, an evaluation of the measures taken in the areas of aid will also be carried out this year? Thirdly, this is a specific and concrete proposal from me and a question to include in the adjustment of conditions and regulations. In January the provision was added that the exemption would now apply to new jobs already created before the completion of the new investment which is a precondition for the reduction of the wage burden. In order for a job to be regarded as new, the legislation requires an analysis of the average number of VTEs over the 12 months before the completion of the investment. This means that the reference period for determining whether a job created is new may overlap with the period during which newly created jobs are eligible for the exemption as from 1 January. It's kind of technical, but I'm just taking over literally. It is a consequence of the law. Do you share my reasoning that as a result, new employment already completed before the completion of the investment will be included in the reference against which the same new employment is being tested? Do you share my concern that this wording will destroy in many cases, in part or in part, the actual purpose of the added provision mentioned? Can you comment on my reasoning that this problem can be solved by replacing in the definition of new employment the concept of "fulfilment' with "the moment when the first job created by investment is filled'? Would the adjustment mentioned in my previous question be in line or not with the European rules applicable to those assisted areas? In the context of this scheme, we must take account of European aid rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u42	Mrs Smaers, according to the forms submitted until 27 September, a total of 2 002 full-time workshops will be created. For the province of Antwerp there are 303 and for the province of Limburg 1 699. Indeed, since the relaxation of the conditions, there has been an increase in the number of forms submitted. In 2015, there were an average of five submitted forms per month. In 2016, the average is almost double, i.e. nine forms per month. A further evaluation of the measures taken in respect of the assisted areas will indeed be carried out for 2016. As far as your question on the reference period is concerned, I share your view that the method of determining whether a job is new is not in line with the legislator's objective of adapting the law by the end of 2015. As you suggest, this problem can be addressed by adjusting the definition of the reference period. I will therefore shortly propose a preliminary draft law within the government, which, taking into account the European rules in this area, will resolve a conflict of opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u43	I can only be very satisfied with that, Minister. This would give some clarity on the ground, especially with a view to creating new jobs as a result of such a new investment. I think that this would once again be an improvement in the scheme which would be more appropriate to the initial objectives of creating as many new jobs as possible. I would therefore like to thank you for your commitment and for taking this arrangement with you in the context of the evaluation. I assume that this can be done in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u44	Minister, more than a year ago you announced a control action against fraud or abuse with the reduced VAT rate on electricity. The total cost of this action was EUR 250 million. In the meantime, what's the status of the control operation? What is the total amount of corrections due according to the administration? How much of that is disputed? In the meantime, how much was effectively recovered following the control action?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u45	I thank Mr Vanvelthoven for waiting for me on this question. The tax authorities have recently discovered, Mr. Minister, a VAT fraud involving energy suppliers. Some companies took unfair advantage of a reduced VAT rate between April 2014 and September 2015, according to information published in the press. As a reminder, at the time, families benefited from the preferential rate of 6% on their electricity bills, while companies had to pay a rate of 21%. However, some companies, mostly small, would have been registered as "families", either on their own initiative or at the request of electricity suppliers. Minister, can you tell me if you confirm this information? How many such fraud files have been identified? How many electricity distributors are involved? Are specific electricity distributors systematically involved in these fraud cases? Are there any specific prosecutions for them? What is the amount of injury to the Belgian State? What follow-up is provided for in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u46	With regard to the control action concerning fraud or abuse of the reduced VAT rate on electricity, I can tell you that the controls are still ongoing. Meanwhile, all information was collected from the taxable persons concerned. This is a large amount of data, the processing and analysis of which takes a long time. I can confirm that between April 2014 and September 2015, some energy suppliers improperly billed their electricity at a reduced rate of 6%. Six suppliers were audited. This incorrect application is based on the fact that these customers were covered by a residential contract, although this did not correspond to the specific circumstances. This concerns a total of approximately 17,000 customers. At present there are discussions with the taxable persons concerned in order to discuss the cases which the administration considers to be infringements and thus to arrive at a final list of contracts to be regularised. It is the administration's practice to conclude final agreements in the last quarter of this year. Therefore, given the current state of the investigation, it is not yet possible to communicate a definitive amount. As the final claims still have to be finalised, there is no effective recovery today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u47	Will you still make it to EUR 250 million, Minister? We're in fear of waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I take note of these figures. I note that you quoted the figure of 17,000 customers. I assume these are 17,000 potential clients, not 17,000 fraudsters, since the analyses are still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u50	You confirm! This is probably an important work for the ISI when the amounts involved are not very high. However, in my view, any fraud case deserves the necessary resources and an attempt should be made to identify whether there is a real will to circumvent the law or whether it is just an extension of existing contracts which, at the time when VAT, which was 21% for both private and business, had no impact. In any case, we look forward to the final results of the FPS Finances on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u51	Mr President, Minister, the press has recently again raised the issue of corporate tax gains. In this context, I would have liked you to communicate to us the amounts of capital gains on shares exempt from corporate tax for the last five tax years, as well as the amounts of capital losses considered to be expenses not allowed. This will give us an idea of the amounts at stake that we can discuss in a possible future corporate tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u52	Mr President, I have asked for figures in particular. In my question, I listed the four ways in which added value on shares in corporation tax is treated. I would have liked to know from the Minister what amounts of taxable or exempt amounts are involved for each of these four categories and for the last five years. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to read this to me. If you add this to the report, that's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u53	Mr Laaouej, do you also agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u54	If we have these numbers in writing, it's okay!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u55	Everyone can have them. Me too, but I'm a little afraid of those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u56	Mr. President, I'm a little abusing your kindness. At the end of the agenda, I have Question No 14580 on Caterpillar transfer prices. There was an opinion from the Legal Service that there were difficulties in responding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u57	It was a question of Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u58	Me too. If the answer is that the minister cannot answer on the basis of this legal opinion, and if I know it immediately, then I am released. That would avoid me having to wait one to two hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u59	Mr. Van Hees asked the same question, and as an answer from our legal department, it is a matter of professional secrecy that the minister cannot answer. Mr President, I should like to say a few words about this. Mr Laaouej on the control of Caterpillar's transfer pricing practices. That question was also asked by Mr Van Hees. Could you perhaps answer Mr Laaouej's question? Mr Van Hees's question concerns something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u60	My answer essentially corresponds to what Mr Laaouej has just said. But I can give you a copy of all the documents I have here, including a legal opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u61	A legal opinion? No, I'm fine. Of which act! It can be considered that my question has been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u62	In addition, on September 27, the Prime Minister asked me to have the prices of the company's internal transfer analyzed. I commissioned my administration to carry out this analysis. However, let me make it clear that this is an extensive analysis that will take some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u64	Monsieur le président, monsieur le ministre des Finances, dans le cadre de son discours à la Chambre le dimanche 16 octobre, le premier ministre déclarait ce qui suit:"As far as ARCO is concerned, the government agreement on the establishment of an active regime for partial compensation of natural persons co-operatives of recognised financial cooperatives is confirmed. A plan of action will be drawn up at the initiative of the Minister for Finance. A task force will be set up to accompany the development of the scheme. Operational implementation will be launched in 2017." Minister, can you tell me what's new in this statement with respect to my previous questions on the ARCO file and the government policy statement? Have any further discussions taken place within the government in this regard? How will the task force to which the Prime Minister referred in his statement be composed? How long do you think the announced plan will be ready? What amount will be put on the table by the federal government to address this issue? From which budget allocation will it be drawn? Where will the other means of compensation for ARCO co-operators come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u65	Minister, I am not going to repeat what my colleague Gilkinet said. The Prime Minister mentioned the ARCO file in his policy statement by announcing that a task force would be set up. What follow-up will be given to this statement? What will be the composition of the task force you are supposed to put in place? How long do you intend to bring it together? What is the estimated amount to compensate co-operators, if possible? Above all, from a budgetary point of view, what are the avenues explored by the government for compensation? Since my questions are specific, I hope to get answers that are equally accurate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u66	I'll do my best. The commitment contained in the Government Agreement has been confirmed. My firm is developing an approach plan – and you can literally understand it. The government will develop a task force that will explore in detail the possible avenues for a solution to the ARCO file and make specific proposals that it will forward to the government. The latter will communicate in a timely manner in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u67	Mr Gilkinet, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u68	Mr President, it is above all you who should be! It is true that I am also concerned about the fate of ARCO co-operators. I was naively thinking that if the Prime Minister referred to the ARCO file as part of his statement, it was because the file had advanced more precisely than what you are telling us now. As you pointed out, this is a commitment made under the government's program, when it was put in place two years ago. Now, you feel like you're still on a white leaf. By hearing the Prime Minister, by noting that he had chosen to cite the ARCO file and not to mention others, it could be said that the outcome was imminent. You say you're working on it, but you don't say anything specific. I fear that those of the government who want more than others a solution to the problem are still the turkeys of the farce of the case, if there is no more voluntarism or means to compensate ARCO co-operators. I hope I'm wrong, but I've been following this case since it started. I asked Minister Reynders about the issue that was the primary responsibility. He had not been able to prevent Dexia's problems as Minister of Finance. The order had been broken by various judicial bodies. I hope this time is the right time, but I still have doubts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u69	Minister, like my colleague, I regret not having an answer. When it is included in a policy statement, it is normal to wait a little more than ideas. Knowing who will make up this task force, what budget will be released, is important. We have to find a solution for the co-operators, but we still have to mark these things up. I imagine that by working seriously all this must still be foreseen when a general policy statement is issued. Either the work done upstream lacks seriousness, or we want to work in opacity. In either case, it is regrettable. I will therefore come back to the matter until you see more clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u70	Mr President, Minister, last April, the German Region of North Rhine-Wesphalia supplied 27 countries with bank data from UBS Switzerland, representing more than 100 billion Swiss francs (92 billion euros) of deposits, to verify whether the taxes owed had been paid there. For Belgian taxpayers, the amounts of 4.7 and 3.2 billion, for the years 2006 and 2008, were quoted; this is what you confirmed to me at the beginning of July. At the beginning of August, the Rhineland announced that it had transmitted to 19 European countries files containing some 160,000 Luxembourg bank details of persons suspected of tax evasion. Of these, more than 49,000 are Belgian taxpayers, more than those of French residents (42 000) and almost as much as Germans (50 000). According to the statements of the Spokesman of the FPS Finances, the problem for the investigators of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes responsible for processing these files transmitted by the Rhineland would be to be able to decipher them. This is coded information and Switzerland's collaboration is needed to find out who owns these bank accounts. And it, based on the content of the cooperation treaties, seems reluctant to cooperate with us, whereas it would do so more readily with other European states such as France or Germany. Minister, what is the status of the use of data received by Belgium last April? What instructions have been given to your services to operate them? What is the current result of this operation? How many tax fraudsters have been identified? What is the amount of taxes actually recovered at the time it is collected? What are the obstacles that your administration faces in exploiting this data? How is it remedied? What about the data transmitted at the beginning of August by the Rhineland? Were they actually received in Belgium? How many taxpayers and how much do they cover? Do you confirm the difficulties of using this data and the difficulty of collaborating with the Swiss administration? Can you explain it? Do the agreements between Belgium and Switzerland allow for the use of these data? If not, should they not be amended in accordance with OECD standards and implementing legislation for France and Germany? Do you intend to take an initiative in this direction? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u71	Mr Gilkinet, on the question of the status of the investigation into the data my administration received in April, I can confirm that the ISI was given the task of investigating this data. This investigation is still under way and it would be premature at present to report the results of this investigation. The ISI has not yet been able to identify all account holders. Unlike the Netherlands, Belgium does not yet have a legal basis, allowing it to exchange tax information with Switzerland for tax purposes in accordance with domestic law. The amendment, signed on 10 April 2014, between Belgium and Switzerland, will change the situation. As soon as this amendment is applicable, Belgium may request banking information from the Swiss authorities in order to establish taxes in accordance with domestic law. On 18 February 2016, the House adopted the draft law, giving its assent to the amendment between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Swiss Confederation, amending the Convention of 28 August 1978 between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Swiss Confederation, with a view to avoiding double taxation on income and capital taxes. The Regions have not yet ratified this amendment. I hereby appeal to the various local parliaments to approve this amendment as soon as possible. On the basis of the programme law of 1 July 2016, the administration has a supplementary period of investigation and taxation when it receives information from abroad. On 30 September, the German administration transmitted to my administration information concerning 50 000 account holders to the ECB. Apparently, the information is limited to family name, place of residence and account number. Data miners have been analyzing these data for the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for this latest information, which I believe is new. This means that banking information continues to arrive from different countries and, in any case, from Germany. There is probably a policy of purchasing files that is different from Belgium. I'll come back. From the outside, Minister, the impression is that data processing is slow, whereas this is a bit of a race against time between fraudsters and the tax administration. The longer we wait to process the data, the more likely we are to see evidence of undeclared amounts disappear. I hear you need legal tools and ratification of this convention. It must also be verified that the conventions we negotiate, as a Belgian State, with other States are as effective as the agreements negotiated by other States with those same States where banks are engaged in tax concealment, in particular Switzerland. I think that we need to move, at European level, towards a common definition of tax havens, a better exchange of information, and a more developed automatic nature of the exchange of information. That is what we say every week in the Panama committee. I hope that we will move in this direction more proactively than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u73	Minister, the local officials, including myself, are concerned about the delays we have detected in recruiting the extras, both to the tax of natural persons and to the property discount. You are aware, Minister, and I know that you are sensitive to this, of the importance of these revenues to the communes and the role they play in creating a credible budget that could eventually turn into a cash flow problem at the end of the year. However, it comes to my mind that at the end of September, nothing had yet been recruited in 2016 for the real estate discount. At the same time last year, we were already at a enlistment representing one third of the total revenue. The situation seems a little better than last year with regard to the additions to the PPI, but already in 2015, the situation had not been so easy. You will understand that the situation is a matter of concern at this time of budgetary preparation. Of course, this is only my personal experience, but I have been concerned about some of my colleagues who have reported the same situation to me. So, minister, can you give me a little more complete overview of the situation. Mainly, how soon can the municipalities expect to start collecting the revenue from these two levies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u74	Mrs de Coster, as you have already mentioned explicitly in the preamble to your question, I am indeed very sensitive to the evolution of the payments of the additional municipal tax, both at the level of the municipal tax additional to the tax on natural persons and at the property discount. These are certainly of great importance for the preparation of communal budgets and, above all, for the certainty of the credibility of the figures in this field. With regard to the municipal additions to the tax on natural persons, I can inform you that, until and including October 2016, the tax administration has already carried out more than three million enrolments (the exact figures are in the answer but if you don't mind, I round up) for a total amount of 993 million euros for the 2016 tax year. This implies a significant increase in enrolments, both in number and amount, compared to the 2015 tax year. In fact, for that year, only 2.7 million recruitments were carried out for a total amount of 737 million euros until the end of October 2015. In sum, this means an increase of about 35%. The above amount for the 2016 tax year will be paid to the municipalities concerned during the period October 2016-December 2016. The amounts will also be included in the 2016 reestimate that the municipalities will obtain in the course of this week. With respect to enrolments related to the real estate discount, I assure you that enrolments for the 2016 tax year are now complete. There were 1.9 million recruitments in this area, which generated fees recorded for a total of 1.5 billion euros for the municipalities, 596 million euros for the provinces, 219 million euros for the Brussels agglomeration and 57 million euros for the Walloon and Brussels-Capital regions. The related income will be paid to the various entities between September and December of this year. Late payments will, for obvious reasons, be transmitted in the first months of the following year, at the rate of collection by tax collectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u75	Minister, you have reassured me with regard to the preparation of our budget. We will receive a letter containing all the payments that we will be able to receive this year. Especially in the context of budget making, it is a relief to know that we are not going to find ourselves in such a difficult cash situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u76	What commune are you from, Madame de Coster?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u77	From Grez-Doiceau to Walloon Brabant, right next to Wavre. Between Wavre and Oud-Heverlee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u78	It's on the linguistic border.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u79	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u80	Mr President, Minister, a number of European states, such as Germany and more specifically the North Rhine-Westphalia Region, which I have just mentioned in a previous question, have in recent months or years bought bank data from whistleblowers wishing to report tax fraud in the institutions in which they worked. Some of these States also choose to make such data available to other States to enable them to attempt to recover taxes evaded by some of their taxpayers. This buy-back has a cost to the States concerned but may also enable them, provided that these data are legally exploitable, to recover much larger sums of money than the investment made in the fight against tax fraud. Minister, can you tell me whether Belgium has already purchased this type of bank data? Is she ready to do so in the near future? Are there budgetary or legal reasons not to do so? Which ones? Is there no need, if any, to remove these obstacles? Is there a budget for this purpose? Where is it housed in the budget of the State and the FPS Finances? What, if any, are the FPS Finance services authorized to carry out this type of transaction and the procedures to be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u81	Mr Gilkinet, to date the Belgian tax administration has no right to buy foreign bank data. Like you, I learned in the press that the Danish authorities would also have decided to buy such information from whistleblowers. In another context, I know that some German states have adopted a similar attitude. The possibility of buying such data in the future and the associated budgetary consequences, as well as the status and protection of whistleblowers, are all issues for which the government is responsible. In order to make this political choice informed, I have instructed the ISI to set up and chair a working group to draw up an inventory of all relevant points of attention on this subject: legality, procedural aspects, general principles, etc. The report of this working group, which will also collect relevant information from our Danish and German counterparts, is expected in spring 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u82	Mr. Minister of Finance, that is an interesting prospect. Belgium seems to me to be lagging behind other countries. Members of the tax administration who came to testify in the Panama Papers committee told us about the difficulties in accessing data that other states are buying. They have a cost, but they can also earn. Legal provisions must also be made to ensure that evidence obtained through a buy-back is effective against the taxpayer who would have defrauded. So I can only encourage you, as well as the ISI, to move forward quickly on this issue. If your work reaches us in the form of a bill, it will receive our support in principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u83	Minister, with the Labouchere file, I am addressing one of the many cases of bad investment abroad, explaining Dexia's situation. At the beginning of September, Dexia was sentenced by the highest court in the Netherlands in a trial brought by the organization Leaseprocess. Dexia has been struggling for almost 15 years in the Netherlands with the old equity leasing contracts that it inherited when Labouchere bank was taken over in 2000. When, shortly after, the stock exchanges collapsed, many Dutch people lost their money. The contracts had been concluded by intermediaries who did not always have all the authorizations. The High Court blames banks like Dexia for approving this practice. Although Dexia is nuanced on the analysis of this judgment, it could allow the aggrieved persons to fully recover their investment, with legal interests. A figure of EUR 200 million is quoted in this framework. Minister, do you confirm Dexia's conviction? What is the exact content of the judgment given in the Netherlands? Does Dexia have an opportunity to appeal this decision? Does she intend to do it? What are the current and potential financial consequences for Dexia of this judgment? Are the amounts concerned provided for? Has Dexia taken or contemplated any action in respect of those responsible for the acts for which she is now condemned, whether they belong to or belonged to her staff or that of Labouchere? Why? What are the other important litigation cases in which Dexia is still involved at this time? What is the amount of his litigation? Is it systematically provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u84	Mr Gilkinet, on 2 September last, the Dutch Supreme Court delivered its verdict in disputes over the role of intermediary in the sale of stock leasing products by Labouchere Bank, an entity acquired by Dexia in 2000, and renamed Dexia Nederland in 2004. This decision in principle, against which no further appeal can be brought in the Netherlands, could allow each complainant to seek a higher compensation in court than that provided for in the current case law, in the event that he or she acquired the proceeds of leasing of shares through an intermediary without a licence and/or could demonstrate that certain due diligence obligations would not have been complied with by that intermediary. The financial consequences for Dexia are difficult to assess at the moment. They will depend in particular on the outcome of individual trials for which the complainants will have to establish that the due diligence obligations have not been met in this case through the intermediary they have used. Certain actions may not be successful for reasons related to the statute of limitations. Dexia had already taken into account the proceedings before the Dutch Supreme Court and provided certain sums in connection with the share leasing case. As with any other case-law developments, Dexia will take the possible consequences of this decision into account in its periodic analysis of the amounts to be provided. Dexia will also take these new legal principles into account in its analysis of possible remedies against third parties. Dexia's annual report provides an overview of the status of the main disputes concerning Dexia on pages 26 et seq., and provides figures on the amounts of the accrued provisions on pages 114 and 132.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am not entirely reassured by this answer. The decision may encourage customers of Dexia Nederland, former Labouchere, to seek compensation from the bank, of which we are the main guarantor. The Belgian State remains the guarantor for more than 40 billion of these possible problems. If, one day, the addition of all these litigation cases causes the bank's accounts to be negative, the Belgian taxpayer will have to intervene. We have long denounced the lack of foresight before the fall of Dexia and this bad guarantee agreement of the bank. We'll see!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u86	Mr. President, Minister, you have acknowledged on your site that the tax revenue estimates presented in recent fiscal years have been subject to a systematic error. One might say that fault confessed is half forgiven, but you are still the Minister of Finance and therefore you are responsible for giving us the most accurate predictions possible. This is a worrying finding from a perspective of good management of public funds and of the quality of the fiscal year, which commits your responsibility as Minister of Finance. Since when, Minister, are you aware of incorrect tax revenue figures? How long have you considered such a practice to have taken place? You seemed to say, in your statement, that it has always been that way or that in any case, it was that way before you arrived. What are the consequences of this tax policy situation? Are these lower revenues not an indicator of an effective tax burden lower than the one announced from a theoretical point of view and on which you support many of your socio-economic choices? Is there no need to put in place the necessary legal and human resources measures to ensure that actual tax revenues are closer to projected tax revenues, including through proper collection of taxes, control and recovery? What follow-up has the government decided to give to the note from the FPS Finance published on your site regarding these overestimated tax revenues?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u87	Mr Gilkinet, last year, I was already aware of the large variations in the macroeconomic parameters underlying tax revenue calculations. Here are a number of examples for 2015: the estimate of personal tax is mainly based on three parameters: real growth, real wages and actual allowances. By way of illustration, I give you the respective growth rates in the 2015 initial budget, set in October 2014, and the actual achievements for 2015: the real growth in total income was initially forecast at 2.2%. In reality, it was only 1%. Real wages, initially forecast at 1.9%, were realized at 0.9%. The actual allowances initially forecast at 2.9% were up to 1.3%. Second example, for the macroeconomic basis of VAT revenues, growth of 2.7% had been taken into account in the initial 2015 budget. The final achievement was 1.6% for these parameters, with an adjustment of -1.1%. Such differences have a significant negative impact on tax revenues. When, in 2016, we faced the same problem and tax revenues had to be revised downwards again, we conducted an analysis of the past years. We found that in 2012 and 2013, it was observed during the first budgetary control that the tax revenues realized were well below the estimates. On the basis of this finding, I have commissioned my administration to conduct a study on the accuracy of estimates in recent years. As the note indicates, which you can consult on my website, it was found, as early as 2012, that the revision of the economic forecasts during the year led, in most cases, to a downward revision. My administration has therefore advised me to take into account from the outset the risk of downward adjustment of macroeconomic parameters, which I have done for the 2017 estimates. I insist, for 2017, I want to rely on the most accurate estimates possible, which are closer to reality. The total budgetary effort for 2017 would not decrease by estimating tax revenues above what they are in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u88	Mr. Minister of Finance, what amazes me systematically is that you question the accuracy of the estimates, but you never question the effectiveness of the socio-economic choices that are being made. In this case, the problem of the difference between the estimates and the result is related to socio-economic choices that do not work. When economic growth is lower than what was imagined, when real wages do not progress, when real allowances do not progress, these elements are linked to other choices you pose. The problem is not the estimates put forward, but the quality of the economic choices adopted by different governments. Today, this leads Belgium to be a very poor budget student at European level. We have received earlier information from the European Commission that the tax shift is not funded, and the hole to be filled by Belgium is more important than it should be. The other issue is the collection and actual collection of the tax. By strengthening your administration, Belgium becomes inefficient in the collection of the tax due. This creates situations of inequality. Indeed, those who do not pay the tax are not always those whose contribution is the least. We will return to that in the context of the budget debate. I will rely on the figures you have just given me, but I will ask you to make more effective socio-economic choices than they have been for too many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u89	Mr Minister, my question concerns a specific category of electric bicycles, namely electric bicycles with pedal support up to 45 kilometres per hour. So these are fast vehicles, the sale of which is on the rise. It's really a phenomenon. More and more people use them in commuting as an alternative to the car because they can travel larger distances faster at that higher speed. Many users have purchased their bike in recent years and received a bicycle fee, until the regulations on speed pedelecs became clear. After all, new means of transport require adapted regulation, and traditionally, regulation is always lagging behind new phenomena. The regulation has been clear since 1 October. Since then, the royal decree that speed pedelecs, high speed electric bikes, or whatever name is given to them, has been in force. The result is that these bicycles, as I still call them, are no longer eligible for the tax-free bicycle allowance that employers give to workers who come to work by bicycle. This is causing a lot of disappointment. It also provides a negative element for stimulating alternatives to car traffic. In view of our file records, I believe that this is necessary. My question is brief, Minister. Can you make an opening to make the speed pedelecs also eligible for the existing bicycle fee? We ourselves have drafted a legislative proposal for this. Minister Bellot supported that two weeks ago. Your party colleague in the Flemish government, Minister Weyts, has already said that these vehicles should be eligible for a bicycle fee. I am therefore hopeful that you will give me a positive answer. My next question is more about tax deduction of investment in a speed pedelec. They are not cheap bicycles, they are quickly talking about amounts from EUR 5 000 to EUR 8 000. The question is whether there are tax deductions for employers. I can live with you giving the answer to that question in writing so that it can move forward a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u90	Mr Van den Bergh, the mileage allowance granted for the journeys actually made by bike between the place of residence and the place of employment is exempt for the 2017 tax year up to a maximum of 22 cents per kilometre. However, the speed pedelec was designated a moped by the Royal Decree of 21 July 2016, as you have already indicated. Consequently, the bicycle fee for the speed pedelec is not exempted in the current state of the legislation. The exemption from the bicycle fee is therefore only allowed for bicycles without so-called pedal support and for electric bicycles where the pedal support is limited to 25 kilometres per hour. In fact, I think it would be useful to look at any amendment to the tax legislation, and it is also being effectively examined in consultation with the relevant colleagues in the Committee on Mobility and Social Affairs. Under certain conditions, a tax reduction is granted for expenditure actually incurred during the taxable period with a view to the acquisition in a new state of a motorcycle, tricycle or quadricycle with an electric motor. The speed pedelec is considered a moped from 1 October 2016, not a motorcycle. So there is no tax reduction for the purchase of a speed pedelec in the current state of tax law, but I can also tell you that we are looking into the extent to which we may change this for the reason you have already indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u91	Thank you, Minister, of course, for the positive signal. Of course, it's just a signal. It is being examined, in cooperation with the other relevant ministers. Of course that is good, but many of the users have lost their fee since 1 October. They're in all the states, so to speak. Any eyes on the timing yet? Can this still be included in a programme law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u92	That will be very difficult, but at least we will try to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u93	In the meantime, therefore, it is not possible to grant workers a bicycle fee which is tax deductible? (...): (...) That's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u94	Mr Dispa is not present for his question No. 14109. Mrs Fonck is not present for her question No. 14126. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 14190 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 14194 is deleted. Mrs Temmerman would come to ask her questions Nos 14197 and 14198. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 14212 was postponed. Questions Nos 14309, 14310, 14311 and 14312 by Mr Deseyn will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Monica De Coninck's 14319 is deleted. Questions Nos 14339 and 14340 by Mr Van Biesen will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u95	Mr President, we are moving from one to the other, it is wonderful!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u96	Borderless issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u97	Not bad! Minister, three years ago, the World Bank made a commitment to support coal-based development projects only in the absence of energy alternatives. This is essential in a policy of disinvestment, in accordance with international climate agreements. However, according to the report just published by the NGO Inclusive Development International (IDI), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a branch of IBRD, has contributed since 2013 to the financing of 41 coal-related projects on the Asian continent. According to IDI, IFC would have provided loans to developing country banks and investment funds, which would have used them to finance these polluting projects. An example is the construction of a coal-fired power plant in Bangladesh. You are the representative of Belgium, at least through delegates, on the Board of Governors of the World Bank. As such, I would like to know your analysis of this report and, where appropriate, the corrective initiatives that may be envisaged by our country. Minister, can you tell me if you have read this report? What credibility and importance do you attach to it? Do you intend to hold this debate in the World Bank at a forthcoming Board of Governors or by appointing the administrator representing Belgium for this purpose? Has Belgium taken or can it take an official position to denounce this situation and to change the practices of the World Bank with a view to disinvestment of fossil fuels? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u98	Mr Gilkinet, my services have indeed taken note of the report on financing by the World Bank of the coal industry in Asia. Let me first give some general information about the International Finance Corporation, which is part of the World Bank. It is involved in 760 intermediary financial institutions in 110 countries. It participates in the capital of companies, provides loans and guarantees and provides advice. In this way, it fulfils its mandate under the strategic objectives of the World Bank Group and the international community in the context of sustainable development. By using these limited resources as a lever, it reaches millions of micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises and promotes the creation of many much-needed jobs in developing countries. Transactions with intermediary financial institutions are subject to the energy guidelines approved by the Governing Council in 2013 and to the sustainable development framework adopted in 2012. This includes several environmental and social standards that apply to IFC transactions. Strict guidelines deal with the direct financing of coal-based investments which are only permitted in exceptional circumstances, in particular where there is no other possibility. These directives do not cover the sub-transactions of financial intermediaries. The database provided by a number of NGOs to the IFC would include 48 cases in which a number of IFC clients had invested in coal-fired power plants. The IFC confirmed that of these 48 cases, 28 are linked to two banks, Axis Bank in India and RCBC in the Philippines. A number of the investments mentioned above date from the period prior to the adoption of the Guidelines and the IFC cannot cancel these contracts. Our Belgian administrator and his team are following this subject closely. The management of the IFC is regularly questioned. However, it should be noted that the IFC's ability to monitor the activities of the intermediary financial institutions is not unlimited. The IFC requires its institutions to provide for their own systems to ensure compliance with environmental and social standards and provides support in the form of capacity building. We have put pressure on the IFC to make more efforts, particularly with regard to the verification of the capacity of its banks and the assessment of environmental and social risks, particularly in sub-projects with higher risks and also to reduce exposure to coal. The management of the IFC is committed to verifying its portfolio and that of its financial clients on the exposure to coal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u99	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note with interest the pressure you place on the IFC to verify the investment policy implemented. Of course, there are historical records that are difficult to disengage from. All international institutions, including funding institutions, must act in accordance with international climate commitments. It is necessary to ensure that the levers of public financing for these micro-enterprises serve the climate objectives. Indeed, these same countries are the first and main victims of climate change at the present time. Defensive argument. Offensive argument: enabling them to develop renewable and cleaner energy sources on their territory can only be in the interest of their economy, much more than operating coal-fired power plants. I hope that, through you, Belgium will be increasingly at the forefront of this fight for the decarbonisation of the economy and the financing of the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u100	Mr President, Minister, my question therefore relates to the European Commission's scoreboard on non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, which is still a topical issue as meetings continue. I should like to point out here that my question dates back to mid-October. In mid-September, the European Commission published, for the first time, a scoreboard on non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. At this stage, it noted all tax jurisdictions on the basis of their close links with the Union, the diversity of financial activities and, finally, a factor of stability that aggregates attractive variables in terms of tax evasion, governance and corruption. As many as 80 countries have been identified as particularly failing with respect to these three criteria. Among these, there are unsurprisingly some states known for their particularly favourable tax system and little looking at the origin of the funds. A second list includes jurisdictions that meet at least one criterion. Before the establishment of a genuine common blacklist, States still have to agree on the list of jurisdictions with which dialogue is to be initiated and on a set of risk criteria. At the same time, it will also be necessary to determine the consequences of listing. Member States could, for example, decide on a systematic source levy on income directed to those States and on a form of reversal of the burden of proof in terms of tax payment. Minister, do you confirm the publication of this dashboard? What is your analysis? What follow-up will be given by Belgium to this document? How long should the blacklist be established? Is the cooperation of Belgium following the process of drawing up this blacklist guaranteed? Do we play a leading role in relation to this important objective? Can you tell me which countries will be on the list transmitted by Belgium? On what basis will the latter list be or has it been drawn up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a scoreboard was published by the European Commission on 15 September. This table gives a classification of courts on the basis of objective figures. This table is a tool created by the Commission to support the Member States and the Council in their efforts to select the courts with which a dialogue will be initiated at the beginning of next year as part of the development of a common list of non-cooperative courts. This is therefore a first analysis by the Commission which highlights the countries which could be taken up for the in-depth analysis and dialogue phase. Member States are currently in the process of identifying countries that pose an apparent risk in starting the dialogue. It will always be possible for Member States to ask the Commission to analyse other countries in a later phase. An in-depth analysis of this scoreboard and how the indicators have been selected is under way, carried out jointly with the other Member States, in parallel with a discussion on the indicators and risk factors to be preferred in the preparation of the list of jurisdictions with which a dialogue will be initiated. By the way, Mr Gilkinet, we discussed this yesterday during ECOFIN. We have made a lot of progress in this direction. The Slovak President has worked well. We really made good progress at this meeting. That was the main point on the agenda. The list of non-cooperative courts will have to be drawn up and approved by the Council by the end of 2017. That was confirmed yesterday. Following the Council conclusions of May 2016, Belgium participates actively in the process of drawing up this list and attends all the sub-group meetings of the Code of Conduct Group responsible for them, as well as the meetings of the Code of Conduct Group and bilateral meetings with the Council Presidencies. Member States are not expected to send lists. Member States shall work together to identify, on the basis of the European Commission document, the courts which will be subject to in-depth analysis and with which a dialogue will be initiated, in order to determine the criteria on which such analysis and dialogue will be conducted. These efforts will lead to the establishment, at the end of 2017, of a common list of non-cooperative jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u102	Minister, this list is an indispensable tool in the fight against tax fraud. In Belgium, there is not even a fixed list of what is considered tax havens. The administrations therefore do not know what saint to devote himself to. I hope that you will achieve this at European level as soon as possible. If you could finish by the end of 2017, it would be good because the sooner we act, the faster we will be effective in the fight against tax fraud. This list of tax havens is one of the many Arlesiennes in the fight against financial crime. I hope that the latest progress in ECOFIN yesterday is real and that it will make it even faster than expected, for once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u103	Mr Minister, you have asked the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, via the Worldline operator, to monitor all payments made by bank and credit cards in order to flush out accounts hidden in tax havens, especially behind front companies. This large-scale monitoring, with 1.8 billion electronic payments made every year, shows how concerned you are about tax evasion. On the other hand, there are questions about respect for privacy and bank secrecy. Minister, can you tell us what you have set out in this respect, even if I can understand that your answer will remain quite clear? Have you asked your services to cross-check the data that they have processed with other jurisdictions that may clarify the situations that may arise during this audit? Is this possible and under what conditions? Do your services focus on large-scale tax fraud cases or are they also interested in other transactions with possible sanctions? Finally, can you give us an interim assessment of these controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u104	My answer will be very brief because the questions you asked relate to a particular taxpayer and, consequently, the provisions on professional secrecy do not allow me to provide an answer at this level. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u105	Minister, I will not formalize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u106	Mr President, two or three weeks ago, we started this debate with the Governor of the National Bank, when he came to give us information on Belgian debt and on quantitative education policy. I would like to question the quality of the choices made in this framework. On 8 June, the Corporate Sector Purchase Program, which involves central banks buying private bonds, was implemented. The aim is to try to boost economic activity through investment by lowering the cost of financing companies. That's the theory. Under the leadership of the ECB, six central banks, including the National Bank of Belgium, have integrated the programme. By 19 August, securities had been purchased totalling almost EUR 18 billion, according to the ECB. While the list of beneficiaries of these buybacks is available on the NBB website, it is regrettable that companies are not listed by name. Only their ISIN (International Securities Identification Number) numbers are included. It is also regrettable that it is not possible to know the amounts invested in each of these companies either. This poses a serious problem of transparency. In the analysis, however, it can be seen that BNB purchased bonds from already heavily capitalised groups such as Solvay, Proximus or AB Inbev. The list of gas and electricity distribution operators, and even an oil tanker, also includes companies whose activities have an undeniable impact on the environment and the climate, in contradiction to the commitment made by Belgium as well as by other countries to disinvest the fossil energy sector, notably following the Paris COP21. While both Europe and Belgium are committed to efforts to combat climate change, we can only regret that this issue is being ignored here by this purchasing policy. This also raises questions about risk management, given that several international reports highlight the economic instability of the fossil energy sector and the financial risks associated with it, particularly in relation to the instability of these countries, in relation to the fact that investment costs are ever higher for more distant deposits, and that there is also an environmental impact if we think of shale gas. Minister, can you tell me why the NBB does not publish more explicitly the names of the companies in which it invests and the amounts invested in them? Are you prepared to intervene with a view to greater transparency in this regard? Who decides the investment choices and amounts invested by the BNB under this asset buyback policy? On what basis? What justifies investment by the BNB in already heavily capitalised companies such as AB lnbev? Should we not instead favour BNB investments in capital-seeking firms? What justifies investment in highly polluting and CO2-emitting companies in contradiction with the commitments made by Europe and Belgium, particularly in the context of the COP21 work and in contradiction with the prudential advice issued by various international bodies, particularly European ones? In accordance with all the Treaties, would it not be justified for the BNB to be in line with the European Union's environmental policy? Are you going to give instructions to that effect? What general assessment do you draw from the BNB's quantitative easing policy? Are you ready to reorient her? What amounts will be invested in the coming months? Depending on what criteria will they be? Here are my questions on this exciting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, I am responding to your seven groups of questions. The Eurosystem has established securities lending operations by central banks. These operations maintain the necessary liquidity in bond markets. Central banks shall publish the list of securities purchased. Market participants are thus kept informed of the securities they can borrow. The ISIN code is a unique identifier to identify an obligation with certainty. On the contrary, the designation of issuers may change or lead to confusion, and issuers may issue several types of bonds. The publication of the ISIN code is therefore the most effective way to inform any interested person. Private bonds must meet a number of conditions in order to be eligible for the purchase programme which are published on the website of the European Central Bank. The programme divides different market segments between the six participating national central banks. The National Bank of Belgium has been awarded bonds issued by issuers located in Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal, Greece, Luxembourg, Malta, Slovenia, Slovakia and Cyprus. Purchases shall be made in such a way as to preserve the principle of monetary policy neutrality while taking into account constraints, including liquidity specific to the bond market. These are purchases of bonds and not shares already issued. They therefore do not impact the capitalisation of enterprises for a single and effective monetary policy. These purchases cover all existing eligible obligations. The main objective of monetary policy instruments is to ensure price stability, i.e. to keep the inflation rate below but close to 2%. To this end, the Eurosystem has put in place tools such as the Private Bond Purchase Programme, which aims to ease financial conditions and restore the proper transmission of monetary policy with a view to minimizing distortion of resource allocation decisions. The BNB is fully aware of the environmental deficits and the commitments made by Europe in this context. These challenges, however, do not fall within the Eurosystem's monetary policy mandate. In this respect, the arrangements for implementing the monetary policy defined by the Eurosystem are in line with the Treaty establishing the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. From the outset of quantitative easing, the financing conditions in the euro area have become more flexible not only for companies that finance themselves on bond markets but also for those using bank credit. This trend is most pronounced in the countries most affected by the crisis and where the transmission of monetary policy was the most problematic. On the other hand, the exchange rate of the euro has tended to decline while the fall in inflation expectations has been halted. In this context, economic activity in the euro area over the past few months has remained sustained, despite a macroeconomic environment marked by successive uncertainties and downward revisions of growth prospects, particularly in emerging economies. Acquisitions of assets amounting to EUR 80 billion per month are expected until March 2017. This amount is divided into four purchase programmes covering sovereign bonds, covered bonds, asset back securities and private bonds. Their distribution is published weekly on the website of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u108	Our young parliamentarian, Mr Gilkinet, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u109	Younger than that, Mr. President! That said, this question is really exciting. When we see EUR 80 billion a month at European level, we see that this is not a small policy. I cannot understand, Mr Minister, that it is totally untied with the other objectives of the Union - particularly in social and environmental matters. These choices are not sufficiently oriented. Why is monetary policy not made more coherent with environmental objectives? They are partly a constraint, but they should also be seen as an opportunity for our States. If, in Paris, the world's most important leaders come to sign an agreement recognizing that every effort must be made to prevent the planet from warming by more than two degrees, then they congregate and that the press is present, and then, in the name of monetary policy, we buy back bonds of any kind – including in the polluting sectors – then we make a mistake and we deprive ourselves of the means to be economically and environmentally efficient. I do not understand this lack of integrated vision. Why not put all the tools of economic and financial policy at the service of the same objectives, which are positive in social, economic and environmental terms? Similarly, in terms of transparency, you tell me that from the ISIN codes we can find very precisely who it is and what the obligations are. Therefore, you consider that we cannot be mistaken. Yes, it has the merit of precision, but also the great flaw of opacity. It is necessary to undertake complicated research on the Internet to know which company the ISIN number in question corresponds to. For citizens and their agents, this is not the most transparent method. This code serves the financial markets in the exchange of shares, but it does not benefit the public. I conclude by expressing to you my real astonishment at the aid of capital and cash from companies that do not need it, while others that are emerging could benefit from this boost, as long as they are financed by bonds, and in this way create jobs at home. This issue does not depend solely on Belgium, since it is a European policy. I invite you to be attentive and proactive so that our country is at the forefront in this field. Europe's economic future also depends on its energy independence. I keep in mind the amount of 400 billion euros of imports of gas, oil and coal which place us in the economic dependence of countries which have in their basement those energy raw materials which also pose a geostrategic problem. If we succeed in making ourselves independent of these sources of energy, it is so much money that can be used for the internal development of our States, for the creation of jobs and for redistribution. I find that he's taken over his leg and that doesn't satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u110	Mr President, we have discussed things at macro-European level. Here, in the context of a 100 per cent public bank, there is also a way to do things. In a press release dated 12 September, KBC Bank presents its policy in terms of disinvestment of the fossil sector. It states that it will cease funding activities in this area, except in the Czech Republic. The same will apply to large biomass and biofuels plants. According to the press release, the insurer bank is therefore committed to a resolutely sustainable approach by announcing an investment policy geared towards supporting renewable energies. In order to continue to be financed by the KBC, energy companies will, for example, have to develop less than half of their activities in the fossil industry or, at the very least, pursue this objective in the short term. We could put the bar higher, but it's already a first step. To this environmental dimension is added an ethical dimension since KBC announces its willingness to reduce funding for arms-related activities, as well as new restrictions on regimes suspected of committing human rights violations. This is an interesting and useful initiative - as long as it is real, I believe - that is totally part of the global disinvestment movement and echoes the resolution that my group has tabled on the subject. It would be useful if this approach were closely followed by the BNB, encouraged to other banks, starting with Belfius, a bank with 100 % public capital. I am even disappointed that Belfius is not the first in Belgium to announce that he will be irreproachable on these issues. Minister, can you tell me whether this KBC disinvestment plan has been the subject of consultation with the NBB? What is the appreciation of the BNB for it? Is the Commission ready to relay and promote the KBC initiative to other banking institutions? Have other Belgian banks taken similar initiatives? Can you quote them from me? What is Belfius' policy in this regard? As the sole owner of Belfius, is the Belgian State prepared to give clear instructions to the bank with a view to a divestment strategy similar to that carried out by KBC? If so, within what time frame? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u111	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, each bank adopts a business model in which it defines which banking services it intends to provide, which customers it targets, under what conditions and under what risk-taking conditions. Various banks incorporate into this model principles of banking ethics based on their own value scale, depending on the perceived preferences of the target clientele. When granting authorisation and thereafter, the supervisor shall ensure that a bank has a sufficient financial and organisational basis to apply its financial model in a sustainable manner. It shall also ensure, taking into account its risk profile, that the bank will always meet the criteria of the authorisation granted to it and will always be able to fulfil its conditions of operation as a business, as prescribed by banking law. The bank must also present a compliance function whose mission is to ensure compliance with the legal and regulatory provisions on the integrity and conduct of banking activity. For me, it is not indicated that the supervisor, in this case the National Bank of Belgium, intervenes in a directive way in the bank's securities charter. It is the latter's responsibility to make such decisions and to ensure that they are able to properly manage the potential risks, particularly in terms of compliance and reputation, associated with this model. As far as Belfius is concerned, the bank has clearly opted for renewable energy for several years now. As regards investment in the energy sector, this means in concrete terms that Belfius has decided to concentrate on renewable energy at the level of loans granted and leasing and project financing activities, to the detriment of coal and other fossil fuels. This priority of Belfius therefore does not date from yesterday. On 21 December 2015, Belfius' total renewable energy investment amounted to just over EUR 1 billion. This involves financing projects and loans via Belfius bank and its subsidiary Belfius Lease, in terms of biomass, solar energy, onshore and offshore wind energy, and cogeneration. These projects offer multiple benefits. Together, they represent an annual yield of renewable energy that meets the energy needs of nearly one million households while avoiding the emission of some 1.3 million tonnes of CO2 per year, thus ensuring a sustainable cycle that benefits the environment and our health. Belfius maintains this commitment. A series of cases are under consideration for a total amount of more than EUR 250 million. Non-renewable energies or fossil fuels are a legacy of the past. On 31 December 2015, Belfius still held historical credits for 12 million euros, 9 million of which will be repaid by the end of 2017. The balance of EUR 3 million will be cleared by 2020. These are credits for three natural gas power generation projects, one of which includes a cogeneration component. Belfius therefore does not finance activities related to the production or exploitation of oil, coal or gas and has no ambition whatsoever in this respect. In summary, the amount of funding in the field of energy production is 98.8% on renewable energy. Through the Smart Cities project, Belfius aims to increase the quality of life in cities and municipalities by supporting innovation and sustainable development. The sustainable transformation of our daily environment, the transition from historic and organic infrastructures based on the old industries to cities and communes of the future that rely resolutely on new technologies and the understanding of a 21st century society are in full swing. Belfius Bank wants, thanks to its status as a privileged partner of Belgian public administrations, to make available its know-how and experience in order to support them in the implementation of their intelligent and sustainable projects. With this aim in mind, Belfius launched the Smart Cities & Sustainable Development programme with the European Investment Bank in 2014. Thanks to this programme, local authorities in Belgium now benefit from favourable rates linked to European funds for the implementation of their intelligent and sustainable projects. The European Investment Bank and Belfius bank each account for 50% of the credit. In addition to improving energy efficiency, the main axes are urban development and sustainable mobility. Since the launch of the programme, Belfius and the European Investment Bank have already allocated loans to 53 Belgian local government projects totalling EUR 340 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u112	Minister, thank you for this moment of publicity for Belfius. If Belfius wants to participate in making our cities more sustainable, it should, in any case, change its company car policy for its employees. Having said that, I have before me a study by FairFin which shows that, where Belfius was the leader in renewable energy financing, she is being caught up by other banking groups. There is therefore a need to put more pressure on Belfius on its investment choices. I repeat that I wish it was Belfius who made the announcement that KBC made a few days ago, even though there is probably some marketing here too. Where I will not agree with you is the fact that investment in fossil fuels is not a risk that must be taken into account in the overall supervision of banks. There are even European directives that indicate how dangerous the fossil sector is to invest in today. I believe that the BNB cannot entirely leave to the free choice of banks this type of investment or the share of investments in fossil fuels that is in their balance sheets. They are highly unstable sectors. I think that we should start by identifying, in the banks' balance sheets, what is and what is not related to fossil fuels, not only from an ecological perspective but also from a financial stability perspective. There is an international movement on the subject that needs to be followed. I'll come back. We have tabled a resolution on this subject, which I hope will one day be the subject of a calm and objective analysis and debate. I thank you, however, for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u113	Minister, this is a somewhat special but nevertheless boring case. Since 1 July 2016, the obligation to have a cash register system has been imposed on many horeca establishment renters. More specifically, operators of establishments where meals are consumed, as well as caterers who perform catering services, and whose annual turnover (excluding VAT) for catering services exceeds EUR 25 000. All food and beverage sales are concerned. If this measure is relevant from a point of view of the fight against tax fraud, the acquisition of the tool may prove unnecessary for some structures. Thus, I received testimony from a caterer who collects the revenues from his services exclusively by bank transfer. The SPF Finances, however, has just intimated to him the obligation to acquire an "intelligent" fund. In concrete terms, this represents a significant expenditure but also a significant loss of time when double encoding is required. Minister, do you have a census of food sales establishments that are not paid in cash but only by bank transfer? What is the reason why a derogation scheme has not been put in place in their favour? As do you justify the double encoding obligation to which these operators will have to adhere? Is it possible to set up a derogation scheme for catering services on order, which do not receive payment at the time of delivery?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u114	Mr Gilkinet, as soon as an establishment that provides restaurant and catering services exceeds the threshold of EUR 25 000 in restaurant and catering service and is therefore required to use a cash register system, it must issue tickets from that cash register for all the operations it carries out, without distinction. This is essential in order to combat tax evasion effectively. Since the method of payment used by the customer is not a criterion for determining whether or not a taxable person is required to issue cash register tickets, identifying the institutions concerned according to the method of payment of their customers has no purpose. In order to avoid double coding of data, the operators concerned may use an interface to link the encoded data in the cash register system with those in the accounts. This system must be approved by the administration. In the case of caterers, two tolerances are provided for in order to take account of their specificity. For transactions with individuals, if the order was registered in the cash register system prior to the event and the necessary corrections are made within the following seven calendar days, it is accepted that the cash register ticket is not issued directly at the time of completion of the service, but is issued no later than the fifteenth day of the following month. For transactions to taxable persons or non-taxable legal persons for which there is an obligation to invoice, the cash-receipt circular will provide that the cash-receipt ticket may be generated only once a month if it resumes all transactions with the customer concerned during that period. This ticket must be issued no later than the fifteenth day of the following month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u115	Minister, I take note of the two exceptions you are quoting that do not seem to meet the particular case that I have quoted from you. Nevertheless, I will inform the person concerned. I think that further relaxation would be useful with regard to caterers who do not use cash but who manage all their transactions by transfers that are as controllable as smart funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u116	Mr Gilkinet, that is a subject that has been discussed in the Optima Committee. Mr Philipsen has indeed said that he destroyed that data. Our expert, Counselor De Pauw, has said that that decision has been made and that dates have been destroyed to enforce a verdict and a settlement in connection with Optima's state of affairs. The expert also says that under no circumstances should Parliament make the reconstruction of these computer files and make them available to the committee to carry out further research into Optima. He told us in closed session that, as soon as Parliament activates these matters, they will give a free pass to the people of Optima, not to mention names. The Committee of Inquiry cannot go against legislation. I think your question has been answered to the Minister in our parliamentary committee of inquiry. That was a closed session. Mr De Pauw was also present at the Bureau. Mrs. Almaci was there, too. He gave us a whole note. I do not think that the Minister should now be confronted with this question, which has been answered. Otherwise, we must not have committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u117	Mr President, the dossier in question has been the subject of press articles on which I am basing myself to write my questions and not on statements which would have been made in closed sessions which I personally did not attend, even though I am an alternate to the Optima Committee. It is on this basis that I would like to obtain the opinion of the minister. If he confirms to me what you said, I will take note of it. Nevertheless, I find that we are in fact a parliamentary committee of inquiry with the power of an investigating judge, which is not above the law, which must respect any convictions, but I am not aware of the nature of this conviction. It is in order to clarify the subject that I ask the question and it seems to me that it is my freedom as a parliamentarian to ask it. I hear your comment as Chairman of the Optima Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u118	It was a comment that was made in camera, first in the presence of Mr. Philipsen, who announced that he had destroyed the data. Then we asked Mr. From Pauw, who told us why... Mr De Pauw has explained to us why a committee of inquiry cannot go against, on the one hand, a court ruling and a settlement concluded between the BBI and the person concerned, Mr Piqueur and, on the other hand, a settlement between Mr Anthonissen and Optima.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u119	Mr Anthonissen said that we need to re-activate them. By the way, those computer files were destroyed. One can only reassemble them. The day on which we do so and make available that information, which is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy and which has been the subject of a settlement, goes against a judgment of a court of law and is not authorized to do so. Then we decided to close that chapter. I can't prove who leaked from the committee. Yes, it was in a newspaper. I will not comment on who did this, but that chapter is closed for us. The day on which we begin and say that we still have those files and that we will use them, will be the day of the criminal investigation... Because the committee had leaked to the Belga agency following Mr Philipsen's hearing, Mr Piqueur's lawyers also had the tuxedo to undermine the entire criminal investigation. So that was on all the websites. It is right that you should ask that question, but that was agreed in the Committee of Inquiry. I can't help but notice that information is being leaked out of there. I do not think we should reopen that debate in Parliament now. After all, we must not interfere with the judicial investigation. If we request that information, I would like to give you the note made by our counsellor, then the Committee of Inquiry is taking a very high risk of interference with the judicial investigation and that we are violating the professional secrecy of the deal. This is the position of our committee, the Optima Bureau, which was confirmed by the plenary session of the Optima Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u120	I hear. I am informed of what you are saying, even though I did not attend the meetings. I just wanted to get the perspective of the Minister of the Executive on the same issue. I did not attend the meeting in question, but on the basis of what I read in the press, I would like to better understand Mr Philipsen's approach, see if it is covered. I know there is a judicial opinion on the use of this data. I don't know how big it is. Therefore, I would like – and it seems to me important that this be done in a parliamentary committee and not in camera – to hear the minister's position on the use of this data. If the minister tells me that from a judicial point of view, we cannot use them, Mr Philipsen destroyed them because he had no other choice, I will take note of them, but I think it is important that he can speak on the basis of the question that I am going to ask him, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u121	Mr. President has used very wise words. You know, Mr. Gilkinet, I'm still trying to answer the questions I'm being asked. I suggest you let me know from a legal point of view. I don't want my remarks to have implications for the rest of the case. I am ready to come back to your question, but first I want to know what I can say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u122	I don't want you to interfere in a case where there's fraud...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u123	It's so complicated that I'm reluctant to do things that can have consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u124	Next week, Friday afternoon, Mr Anthonissen comes in camera to explain his case. He said he'd go back to everything he said in the press. I have already said everything, he says, everything is in the press; I come to the committee and I will say one thing: are there any questions? You can ask Mr. Anthonissen the question, but... were you present at the meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u125	With the expert?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u127	Yeah, but I had to leave at 11:30. Maybe he explained it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u128	What has been said and will be repeated next Friday to Mr Anthonissen, who comes only on the Optima dossier, is that Parliament's committee of inquiry has taken a clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u129	And so, my question is postponed until the next sitting. Thus, the Minister may seek legal answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u130	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u131	I'm not taking it off. Mr. Minister just said he wanted to...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u132	I wasn't much in favour of that committee of inquiry, everyone knows that. However, that committee of inquiry has all the powers to deal with this matter within the context of the Committee of Inquiry. This is about a legally extremely delicate matter, as the Minister said, in which we cannot in any way feed on interference with the judicial investigation. Either we deal with this in the committee of inquiry or we are going to use the normal committees to ask the Minister to take a position in one way or another, which is not currently being discussed. That is why a committee of inquiry has been set up, and you were also in favour of a committee of inquiry. We're not gonna go through all those files here again, especially not that what's on a committee of inquiry. I would like to give you, on a confidential basis, that note from the counsellor of the court of appeal of Ghent, Mr De Pauw. If you have read it, you will probably not want to ask many more questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u133	I'm interested. Then invite the Minister of Finance. But he's here in front of me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u134	Yes, if we want, we can invite the minister to the Optima committee, but, after what we have heard from Mr Philipsen and from our raadsheer, I do not think it is necessary, in a normal committee, to take up this matter again. I don't want to take any chances on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u135	I don't understand what the risks are. There is nothing in the written text of my question that has not been taken up by the press. If the minister says – he often does: "Mr Gilkinet, on this question, I cannot answer you because I do not want to take a legal risk in relation to business"; I would say: "Mr Gilkinet, I am disappointed with your non-response but nevertheless I would have asked my question". What is the risk of asking a question? There's a separation of powers. As a legislature, I ask the executive a question and the judiciary is doing its job. If the Minister responds to me on the basis of the decision of the Ghent Court, this data cannot under any circumstances be used at the risk of cancelling everything that has happened as an investigation since then, I shall take note of it. But I do not even have access, as a parliamentarian, to this decision of the Ghent court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u136	This decision is public. The verdict and the settlement are public documents, they are distributed in committee. There's no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u137	In any case, I did not write my question, and I did not intend to ask it in order to harm the work of the Optima Commission, or the action of the ISI in the Optima dossier, if there is one, or to harm the work of the justice system in the same case. My only objective was to see if the Minister of Finance was covering Mr. Philipsen's choice not to share matters and data with us. Did he justify it? But I won't die if I don't ask my question. I give myself the freedom to re-establish it if necessary. I've asked enough questions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic527x.u138	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 13982 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 14539, 14540, 14541 and 14542 by Mr Van Hees are converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 14560 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 14572 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 14768 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 14792 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 14867 was postponed.
