ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you after this summer break and thank you for being here today. Thank you to the Minister for coming to give us an update on the reform of hospital funding. We had a meeting, at which the plan was presented, in June 2015. Time passes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u2	April, not June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u3	The plan was presented, but in committee, it was...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u5	Oh, yes, all right. We agreed to follow up on the achievements and steps. We do not need a rapporteur, but there will be a full report. Minister, I give you the floor; then I give the floor to the members for their comments and questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked me, and that was also agreed to take stock of the reform of hospital funding today. As you know, this is one of the largest policy areas for the current legislature. I will give you an overview of the progress made in the plan of action for the reform of hospital funding. This is a plan that I explained here on 28 April 2015. In the time frame of one committee meeting, I shall deal with the subject of our work over the past year, in which we have made progress. I shall begin by recalling the reasons why this reform is necessary and what has been concluded on this subject in the government agreement. I will also briefly explain how we will proceed in our political work. Then I will give an overview of the themes and main work that I have been working on over the past year with my administrations and with the sector. The different topics are grouped into two themes. First of all, the organisation of the hospital landscape. Secondly, the financing of hospitals. As you can see, we haven't been with each other in the last few months. First of all, I would like to remind you of the basic principles of the government agreement that are relevant to the reform of hospital funding. We aspire to high-quality, accessible and affordable health care that places the patient at the centre of our concerns and continues to see him as an active partner in its own right. We wish to achieve this objective by means of structural reforms, a stable multi-annual perspective, a policy based on scientific evidence and, if possible, greater transparency and administrative simplification for funding. The key project we are addressing today is composed of two main components: the changing function of the hospital in the care landscape and the need to fundamentally adapt its funding. This adaptation is necessary, as the needs of patients also change. They are becoming older and more often suffer from multiple chronic conditions. Hospitals need to work more in clinical networks that allow for close structural collaboration between the general and specialized functions of hospitals. There is also a need to work more closely with extra-mural providers in order to establish sufficient coordination and harmonize different forms of care. We need more specialized centres where complex and rare treatments and specialized technologies can be concentrated on the basis of available scientific evidence. The use of hospital infrastructure needs to be further optimized, in particular by avoiding unnecessary long-term hospitalizations. The acute bed surplus must be converted into chronic care beds and/or infrastructure in other transmural care and reception facilities. The reform of hospital funding is based on the following principles. Reasonable care operating costs must be properly funded. Funding must be less guided by structure and benefits. Instead, emphasis should be placed on quality and outcome. Funding needs to be adapted to changing needs. The registration burden of hospitals should be reduced. We plead for a future-oriented mixed funding system for standardized care, of course, with the maintenance of the principle of fees per medical benefit. It is necessary to examine the existing system of deductions from physician schedules in the light of the reforms. The participation of doctors in the medical management of the hospital is guaranteed. Sufficient attention should be paid to specific activities, such as training and research activities. Of course, the reform of hospital funding goes hand in hand with other reforms such as the revision of Royal Decree 78 on the exercise of health care professions and the future reform of the nomenclature. As far as my proposals for the reform of Royal Decree 78 are concerned, a day of study is planned at the end of September. My plans will be presented to the actors in the field. The reform of hospital funding is also linked to other initiatives that I have taken at the political level. I am thinking in particular of the integrated care plan for chronic diseases, the e-health strategy or the administrative simplification plans. A reorientation of the role of the hospital in the care landscape is necessary in order to be able to use the resources more intelligently. The aim is to reinvest the funds that are now being used sub-optimally and to distribute resources and people within and outside hospitals more efficiently. We want to achieve this by reducing the number of unused acute hospital beds, reducing the length of stay where possible and moving care to an offer outside the hospital for recovery or rehabilitation, by avoiding unnecessary double examinations and limiting the oversupply of expensive technology. We have known for many years that the gap between the number of eligible hospital beds and the number of responsible hospital beds is growing. The figures used to finance the BFM of July 2016, i.e. based on the 2013 activities, confirm this trend once again. You can see here that the gap exists mainly for the acute beds for hospitalization of adults, the so-called C and D beds, where the gap is about 15%. In globo we also have more than 10 % too many matrimony beds and pediatric beds. We do not have enough bed for geriatric patients; the deficit is about 4%. You should also know that these latest figures are based on the activities in 2013. In the meantime, of course, the length of stay in the hospitals has fallen even further. This means that the gap will be further widened. If we take into account the opportunity to reduce the length of stay even further or to switch to day hospitalization, then it becomes clear that the excess of acute beds will be even greater than at this projection. A reform of hospital funding requires a step-by-step approach. The whole plan of action was therefore also divided into work packages. The packages for the period 2015-2016 have already been implemented and we are working out the packages for the next two years. The plan of action therefore provides for working with pilot projects. For the governance of the whole project, my plan was to place a strong emphasis on consultation and cooperation with all relevant actors in the field. At federal level, I therefore provided for a consultation group with the sector and ad hoc consultations with the stakeholders not represented in that consultation group. Consultation with the Länder takes place through the Inter-Kabinette Working Group on Hospitals and through the Inter-Ministerial Conferences on Public Health. As far as methodology is concerned, we have achieved a number of things. I created the focus group in June 2015. This group is composed of representatives of hospital domes organizations, medical unions and mutualities. Each group is represented by five permanent members. In 2015, the focus group met five times and in 2016, three meetings were already held before the summer. In bilateral discussions with other stakeholders, there have been regular contacts with, inter alia, independent care providers such as kines, pharmacists, home care nurses, psychologists and others. In addition, my cell consults very regularly with the administrations with which we work very closely and constructively. They meet every 15 days. These are representatives of the Public Health FPS, INAMI and KCE. Following the completion of the approach plan at the end of April 2015, twelve meetings were held in 2015 and nine before the summer of 2016. We are working constructively with the federated entities in the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. Since the launch of the outreach plan, four conferences have been held and the inter-cabinets hospital working group has met five times. In addition, a specific session was organized to explain how pilot projects should be carried out. At the Interdepartmental Conference of 29 June 2015, all relevant ministers signed a joint declaration on the new role of the hospital in the care landscape. This is a commitment on the part of the political actors, the different levels of power aimed at implementing the necessary reforms in the hospital landscape. This statement clearly demonstrates the need for a common vision in order to maintain consistency between the competences of the different authorities. Of course, I also have informal contacts with my colleagues from the federated entities and we are keeping abreast of new initiatives. Optimization of the functioning of the existing advisory bodies is planned and will be included in the work on the re-designation of health care administrations. The pilot projects are the first instrument that we have used to involve the field of work directly in the reforms. In the context of hospital reform, I want to work with the ideas that the sector itself provides. We do this through the implementation of pilot projects, which allow us to test new models on a limited scale, especially in care, which often starts in the hospital, but is then continued outside the walls of the hospital. Again, the aim is to avoid unnecessary and unnecessarily long hospitalisations. This requires good arrangements with all the care facilities involved, so that the continuity of care and therefore its quality remain guaranteed for patients. In the summer of 2015, we called on the sector to provide pilot project theme dynamometers that would allow the hospital infrastructure to be used more efficiently. We have received massive reactions from hospitals, healthcare professionals, OCMWFs and citizens. In total we received 470 proposals which we were able to bring together in a number of themes. There were proposals to provide care to certain patients in a home setting or in a care setting outside the hospital, such as a recovery facility, or as an outpatient. In addition, we received numerous ideas to allow patients to stay in a hospital for less time, for example by pointing out treatments that do not require overnight stays in the hospital, but can happen during a daycare. Finally, we were suggested to avoid hospitalisations or days of nursing through better cooperation between hospitals or between hospitals and outpatient care providers. In the summer of 2015, we made the necessary administrative preparations to launch the first call for participation in pilot projects within one specific theme. To this end, we appealed to different parties. The employees of the FPS Public Health prepared the template for the candidacy, as well as the project agreement that the partners must have concluded among themselves. In fact, parties applying together for a pilot project will be guaranteed that they can continue to count on the same budget per patient as if the patient had been hospitalised, as has been the case so far. However, this money is no longer exclusively spent on hospital care. Moreover, we appealed to the two largest hospital domes, Zorgnet and Santhea, for the layout of the calculation model. This is intended to achieve the principle of a budget guarantee between the partners. The first topic for which proposals from pilot projects could be submitted was the delivery of reduced hospital stays. Apparently, that subject was very much to the imagination. We received no less than 35 well-developed care courses, in which hospitals, midwifes, home nurses and others joined forces. Together, the files submitted represented about 60% of the country's matrimony beds. In the meantime, independent experts have carefully selected seven projects on the basis of both financial-administrative and health-related criteria and have started pilot projects. A mid-term evaluation will follow after one year. After the second year there is a final evaluation. The projects approved will receive an additional budget of EUR 40 000 per year for coordination. The projects that receive a positive final evaluation will give us more insight into what works in practice here in Belgium and cannot work. On this basis, we can then give birth to a policy on a reduced hospital stay for the whole country. Since then, two other calls have been launched. Last Friday, more than twenty applications were submitted for both subjects. Both themes are about home hospitalization. One theme is intravenous administration of antibiotics. The other subject is broader and seeks new organisational modalities for home hospitalization. Specific to all pilot projects is that patients will never be required to enter the new trajectory. Patients who wish to do so may in turn not pay more than if they were hospitalised. Since pilot projects are also ongoing or planned for other policy yards, for example for integrated care with chronically ill and Mobile Health, I do not plan any further calls for pilot projects under hospital funding. As far as the organization of hospital care is concerned, many studies are under way this year, so that some things can be prepared in depth. I will give you more details on three themes: firstly, on the initiatives I have taken in the area of networking, then on the need to concentrate certain forms of specialised care, and finally on the state of non-programmable care. I asked for further development of some sub-themes as part of the reorientation of the care landscape and reorganisation of hospital care. To this end, the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) was commissioned to conduct several studies. KCE is currently preparing studies on different themes, and first of all on the governance structure of the networks. For this theme, the final report will be submitted to the KCE Board of Directors before the end of the year. To what extent can the surgical procedures for which patients are currently hospitalized go into day hospital? How to organize trauma care in Belgium? How to assess the provision of care for the next few years, taking into account the expected changes in the composition of the population, and morbidity? And if the patient's length of stay is shortened in the future, what alternative care needs will arise after the stay in hospital? It's not because a patient gets out of the hospital sooner that he's cured faster. For the last two themes, the final report will be presented to the KCE Board of Directors before the summer of 2017, as well as the policy recommendations. The draft note on networking is also under preparation, but I would like to explain some of its basic principles. The starting point for the vision of networking is the following: the reorganisation of the healthcare landscape will result in a rationalised healthcare offering, with increasing concentration and specialisation of hospital care, with capacity reduction. At the same time, the patient and his handler must always know where to get the right care according to the condition. I see the network as a tool for formalised task and work arrangements between hospitals or hospital services, so that patients and their pointers can always find their way. So I have a network concept prepared in the regulation as a new tool to promote cooperation in the field of clinical care. After all, we find that the existing instruments, such as a merger and association and a grouping, do not provide sufficient leverage to allow hospitals to work together on a structural basis. In my opinion, the concept of network replaces the individual hospital as a cornerstone of hospital policy. The main aim is to promote cooperation in the provision of care. Of course, there are also important benefits to be achieved through cooperation in the area of healthcare support services, for example in terms of costs and quality. However, hospitals already have more opportunities for this through existing forms of cooperation. For cooperation in, for example, invoicing, purchasing and personnel policy, I should not have any new policy tools designed. In the context of closer cooperation between hospitals, I will distinguish different types of hospital functions. Depending on the condition, the patient's care course may include care in one or more general specialised reference or university functions. The general care functions are offered in any network and can be offered at any location of the network. The specialised care functions are offered in each network, but only in a limited number of hospitals. For these functions, the locations within the network should make reciprocal and reciprocal agreements. The reference care functions are even more specialised and are not offered in each network. This requires reciprocal and reciprocal agreements between the various networks. The specific university functions in the area of patient care include the last line designation function and the so-called tertiary or quartal pathology. A second concrete theme for which I am preparing a political initiative is the consultation of specialist care. Several recent KCE reports have shown that it is necessary to focus care on quality and cost considerations. On the side of rare tumour surgery, this is particularly the case for the carcinoma of the esophagus, the pancreas and the lungs. This type of intervention should be carried out only in specialized centres. The federal responsibility for programming allows for the designation of specialized centres, but in order to give the patient more clarity, I asked INAMI to examine whether reimbursement of interventions could be limited to a few centres using the INAMI agreement concluded through colleges of physicians-directors. Then I come to the reform of non-planable care. This is another aspect of my policy that is linked to the organisation of the hospital landscape. A lot of preparations have been made within this domain over the past year. The 112/1733 medical dispensing centres should be organised in such a way that the patient is always referred to the right care provision using a uniform triage tool to determine the nature and severity of the need for care. If urgent admission to specialist care is indicated, the patient will be transferred to the most appropriate specialised emergency care service through the emergency medical care system. The Urgent Medical Assistance Service should in future consist of three parts: the medical emergency groups (MUG), the paramedical intervention teams (PIT) and the ambulances. This regularisation, i.e. the determination of the most appropriate specialized emergency care, will take place in consultation between the intervening teams and the aid centre 112. To this end, the various teams will be trained accordingly. All components must have a customized programming that fits into the whole. This will be done on the basis of a dynamic geographical computer model based on the number of times a service is actually required to leave and the driving times measured in the different regions of the country. This programming will need to be reviewed regularly on the basis of the recorded data in order to continue to reach pre-established service levels. It should also be possible, through dynamic programming, to vary the availability of services over time, both day/night and week/weekend. If a call to the medical dispatch centres shows that the most efficient assistance can be provided in the first line, a reference will be made to the general practitioner, to the GMD-holding general practitioner within normal working hours and to the waiting services outside. GPs are encouraged to keep their guards in a guard station, and sentries are encouraged to work very closely with the emergency services available from hospitals. Outside normal working hours, simple protocols can also lead to a delay of care via a reference to the planned care. As we adapt the permanences to the needs of time and time in the programming process, we also wish to adapt the compensation system to the services requested. For the compensation I have a canvas of four separate parts in mind. I am thinking of a permanence allowance and an allowance for the assignment received from the aid centre 112 without actually transporting a patient. We will also pay for the performance and care on the spot on a flat-rate basis. This allows patients to be transferred to an emergency service after on-site care. As a fourth and final part there can also be a transport fee. Through these adapted financing methods, I aim to promote a stronger and more quality service. The implementation of the new financing model must, of course, be integrated into the current budgetary context. I would then like to focus on a number of issues relating to the reform of hospital funding, which has been the subject of a great deal of work over the past year. I will talk about the split-up of patient groups in a cluster of low, medium, high variable care, the new funding of low variable care and the initiatives on pay for performance. I will also talk about the reforms and the new initiatives in the budget financial resources, in particular the electronic patient file, the funding according to the nurse's care gravity, as well as the administrative simplification. In my plan of action last year, I announced that we want to achieve new funding, which varies according to whether it is low, medium, or high variable care. In the meantime, the Knowledge Centre has developed a methodology to divide patients based on pathology groups into three clusters, depending on the variability of RIZIV expenditures per patient. This concerns both the variability in expenditure between patients and between hospitals. A useful methodology for this division into groups has been developed in the study. Obviously, the group will need to be updated regularly in the future, including in the event of changes in medical practice, and on the basis of the additional information available. Here you can see how the Knowledge Centre uses beautiful visualization techniques for its statistical analyses that allow you to present and interpret many detail data at a glance. Let me give you the example of a random pathology group. Each block shows the substance deployment in the hospitals according to the patient's severity. The left column is the lightest degree of severity and so one goes to the very serious. The X-axis shows the expenses per patient. Each horizontal line on this axis represents a hospital. Each black bar shows the distribution of expenses for a hospital. The darker the beam, the more patients. The green line then returns the median mean bet by severity and the orange lines represent the first and third quartile. It is true that the hospitals located in the first column should not be extended at a certain height. They're different rankings each time. I could have shown four slides in a row, but that makes it clearer. So you can see here for this random pathology group that there is only a little variability within the lowest degree of severity. That is: the orange line is close to the green line and the blackest part of each beam is within those limits. Very little variability in severity 2 and 3 and greater variability in severity 4. That's the last column. There are also very few hospitals with patients of the highest severity. This illustrates that we can work for this condition for patients with the lowest severity rates with a flat-rate funding per patient. This will pose little financial risk to most hospitals, because most hospitals have very few patients who are out of orange lines. So there is clearly a segment of low variable care. The study of the Knowledge Centre thus allows to identify a number of pathology groups that are low variable and for which funding in the form of a uniform and lump sum per patient can be established. This new funding is being developed initially for a limited number of pathology groups. Of course, there must be conditions for which hospital care has little variability. In the first instance, we are also restricting ourselves to the conditions for which a sufficient number of hospitalisations take place in Belgium. Phases 1 and 2 are currently in full preparation. During these phases, fees shall be bundled up to one lump sum. We are doing so for more and also for other pathology groups than just those for which reference amounts exist. At a subsequent stage, this will be extended to other hospital funding, such as medicines, day care and the budget of financial resources, with a view to achieving cross-border funding in phase 5. Childbirth is an example of what we want to finance in another way, in which most patients have a fairly similar care course, with, of course, a distinction between vaginal delivery and caesarean delivery. Other examples are hip and knee prostheses. Phases 1 and 2 of that reform are as follows: On my question, the various administrations involved are working on the impact, simultaneously for Phases 1 and 2, on different areas. For the pathology groups meeting the low variability criterion in RIZIV expenditure, a thorough clinical check-up should now be carried out with physicians and experts who come into daily contact with those patients. They should assess, for example, whether there are medical differences in diagnostics and treatment, depending on the age or cause of the condition, resulting in responsible differences in costs. In these cases, such a pathology group may need to be divided into two or more sub-groups for funding. Clinics will also consider whether it is justified to reserve the same amount for a treatment in a day hospital or with a classic hospital stay, or whether there are medical differences in approach that justify differences in costs. That exercise is made for each pathology group in separate working groups and per medical discipline. Meanwhile, a way must be found to identify these patients in time during the hospital stay, so that the monthly billing can happen. This is not insignificant in technical terms, because so far the invoicing has been based on nomenclature codes. Finally, it is also necessary to adapt the financing and invoicing arrangements for, inter alia, fees and fees. My administrations are currently working on these technical aspects and will, after discussion and advice from the appropriate advisory bodies, translate them into legislative amendments. The timing for this important sub-project is there. By July 2017, the full impact at the level of the administrations should be over and communicated to all stakeholders so that they can start making the adjustments in July 2017. The adjustments to be made by the various actors are not to be underestimated. Hospitals should be able to prepare themselves internally for this new type of financing, as should insurance institutions. We give them six months. The doctors will enter into consultation with each other and with the hospital directories, because this lump sum will have to be divided between the different disciplines of doctors. The intention remains to start the new funding for specific pathology groups as early as January 2018. As you recall from the plan of action, I want to continue to compensate medium variable care with a closed budget divided between hospitals according to their number and the care gravity of their patients with conditions, for which hospital care is catalogued as a medium variable. A closed budget approach is similar to the current BFM funding, with emphasis on the accurate keys to distribute the budget between the hospitals concerned. This is why the focus here is primarily on simplifying the current Financial Resources Budget, but also on increasing transparency within the Financial Resources Budget, clearly identifying the amount each patient group contributes to the overall BFM. In order to simplify the BFM, I have asked for proposals from the consultation group and the administrations. They have been discussed in the consultation group and are now further examined for their technical and practical feasibility by my staff of the FPS Public Health. The aim is to implement the practical BFM simplifications next year and to link the more fundamental simplifications to the reform of the BFM as a function of more accurate keys. In order to achieve greater transparency, a study assignment has also been given to unravel the BFM, in particular to divide it into its components and identify the amount each patient group contributes to the BFM. Steps two to five of my plan are identical for the low and medium variable care. I'm not going back to that. In the case of low variable care, I indicated that, after the fees have been collected, other financing elements will also be integrated into the uniform amount per patient. If we want to integrate the BFM hatch, we need to know exactly how much BFM receives the hospital for such a low variable patient. At the moment, we do not know that because of the complex accounting rules that are now in place. In the case of medium variable care, our concern is that the keys used to distribute the closed budget between hospitals are closely related to the responsible costs per patient. Therefore, the BFM must first be unraveled for the medium variable care. Once we have a look at the constituent components, we can check whether the current keys reflect the responsible cost differences or not. As far as fees are concerned, I had announced that we should have a better idea of the part of the practical costs that each fee per performance pays and how much the professional part is. That is why we outsourced a study. For these two subsidiaries I contracted two studies: one to mainly Flemish hospitals, the other to mainly Walloon hospitals. It has been agreed that the two teams work closely together during their study work and also jointly report to a scientific steering committee. After one year an interim report follows and after two years the final report. The Scientific Steering Committee shall accompany the two teams throughout that period. What is the purpose of this unravelling of the BFM? Firstly, a reordering of the BFM so that it becomes much simpler, more transparent and more consistent. One example is better pooling of the different channels with which staff is now financed and suggestions to calculate certain parts of the BFM more accurately by proposing different keys. It is also important to see the real cost per patient. It is therefore possible to assess whether the BFM funding of the different patient groups effectively also covers the cost of the patient. As you know, there is now a patient's performance in which a hospital always pays off, which is one of the reasons for the structural under-financing of our hospitals. Finally, a methodology is being developed to calculate the contribution to the BFM and the costs per pathology and per patient, taking into account the evolution of medical practice. The other study on fees has been outsourced to a team of the ULB, which will work with the PACHA hospitals for this purpose. It specifically focuses on identifying and splitting fees into a part of practical costs and a part of professional costs for each patient group. For the latter, a methodology will also be developed to establish the required relative remuneration per performance based on the time spent by the physician, the complexity of the activity and the risk associated with the medical performance. The Association of Belgian Professional Associations of Medicine Specialists has agreed to cooperate with the doctors and specialists on this subject. I'm glad they're willing to cooperate. Of course, the division of fees for the entire nomenclature in that two-year study cannot yet be carried out. In order to cover an important part of the medical activities, most of the acts that include a significant part of the RIZIV expenses in low variable care have been chosen. Finally, I would like to stress that this study is part of the reform of hospital funding and not of the policy on the re-evaluation of the nomenclature. The latter requires first a scientific study which is included in the most recent governance agreement with the RIZIV. With regard to high variability care, I asked for a study of how other countries define and finance this care. This study will be conducted by the KCE in collaboration with the UCL and TU Berlin team. We are waiting for the results by June 2017. This study should inspire us in the development of a financing technique adapted to high variability care in Belgium. As you know, I pay a great deal of attention to the quality of care. I want to create a spirit of work towards quality within hospitals and with providers using financial incentives. This will be done within existing budgets and initially using a modest sum. The aim is also to increase the registration burden for hospitals as little as possible. If the experiences are positive, then we can extend this principle in practice. Around the pay for performance we asked the members of the consultation group for proposals. We got rather mixed reactions. Some hospital domes are convinced of the added value of pay for performance and immediately came up with proposals. Other domes had a bit more cold feet, as I call it. We first left the initiative to the members of the consultative group itself in order to reach a consensus among themselves, which, however, did not succeed. That is why I have re-recorded the project myself since the summer. I will shortly be launching a more concrete proposal for a targeted working group in which the administrations and various experts, especially doctors, will be represented. It is important for us that patients in this working group should also be given a voice. The broad lines that are used for the pay for performance and which we ourselves have laid down are the following. The pay for performance applies to all general hospitals. It is not about a project in which hospitals can participate voluntarily or not voluntarily. I want to reward both the improvement of quality and the achievement of a minimum standard. We must avoid the need for hospitals to keep records for this kind of funding only. We therefore make the most of existing indicators or indicators that can be derived from existing registrations. The sector should be properly informed in advance about the plans, such as which indicators are used, how they are measured and how they are evaluated. We start with a modest application of the pay for performance. It is only after evaluation that we can see that there is a positive effect on the quality of hospitals that we will expand. Patients are asking for more and more information about the quality. This is an important incentive to work on the improvement as well. If we distribute resources on the basis of quality, we can also ask for access to the distribution of resources. I also see a major role for eHealth in achieving the objectives of my policy plan. An integrated electronic patient file promotes the sharing of information for multidisciplinary care in the hospital, with other hospitals and also with outpatient care providers. The electronic patient file also supports the evidence-based medicine and more generally the quality of care. However, hospitals are struggling with a number of challenges such as the growth of medical technology to respond to needs for care and the administrative burden of registration combined with sometimes not integrated computer systems. With unchanged policies, we would have reached only 30% of hospitals where an integrated electronic patient file would have existed in 2018. In order to provide additional support to hospitals, we decided to add EUR 40.2 million to the ICT budget of EUR 16.4 million. You found that in the 2016 budget. The electronic patient file becomes the information corner stone of tomorrow's care landscape. In any case, this additional budget will give each hospital a larger ICT budget. If a hospital meets defined criteria, it can count on a further increase in the budget. However, the criteria become stricter year after year. In this way, I want to encourage hospitals to continue working on their electronic patient records. That is why we call it the accelerator budget, to do the catch-up. Innovative hospitals are also encouraged and rewarded for their former investments with a specific budget, in particular the early adopter budget. The closed envelope of over EUR 56 million will be distributed to general and psychiatric hospitals each year. The timing and conditions to get a budget look like this: the pedestal is the red cube together with the pink pedestal is a guaranteed financing, regardless of the conditions, in the form of a fixed amount per hospital and per bed. You will see that this unconditional amount actually falls year after year. In addition, there is the accelerator budget. In order to benefit from this, hospitals must fulfil certain conditions laid down for each year. In order to maintain the 2016 budget, the hospital should be able to present a concrete plan of approach on scope, selection path, implementation path, timing and funding of the integrated electronic patient file by the end of September 2016. In order to maintain the 2017 budget, each hospital must have made a choice of electronic patient file by mid-2017, arrange the contracts and funding and set a start date in terms of implementation. As of 2018, the concrete implementation will be monitored. The funding will then be linked to the number of basic functionalities deployed described in the Belgian Meaningful Use criteria for the electronic patient file. By mid-2019, the amount will be distributed between the hospitals that have rolled out the respective basic functionalities. As of 2017, a small part of the budget will be allocated to early adopters to reward the hospitals that sooner or faster than requested realize their electronic patient file. The hospitals already received this budget through their BFM in July 2016, and on 12 September the electronic patient file was published in the Belgian Official Journal. Within the BFM there is still a lot of discussion about how to measure the differences in nursing care gravity and how to take them into account in hospital funding. After a number of years of study, in 2014, there was a slight change in funding, which gave rise to justified criticism in the sector. I therefore asked my administration to review the system and correct any errors in it as soon as possible. The adjustment of the parameters for nurse care gravity based on the so-called nursing related groups, NRGS, which were already realized in the BFM in July 2016, are briefly the following. For the intensive funding group, the correction initiated last year will continue and as promised will also be applied retroactively for 2014. 5 out of 78 items used to identify nursing activities are deleted for use in funding. This does not mean that these nursing activities are not important, but the administration has found that these 5 items mainly illustrate the coding practices of hospitals and not so much the differences in real nursing practice. Moreover, according to the administration, these differences cannot be adjusted by means of stricter coding guidelines. They were taken out. In view of the uncertainties and the significant differences in coding practices identified, we have decided to keep application at 30% for the time being, pending a more fundamental reorientation. We actually notice a big difference in coding between the different hospitals. The FPS Public Health is now working on the more fundamental reorientation. The main areas of thought and attention are the following. A further differentiation of the different nursing items to basic versus additional care. Basic care takes place everywhere and usually, while additional care is much more variable. In principle, only the variable elements are needed for supplementary financing. The current nursing care groups used in the funding are quite closely related to the bed index. There's a C, D, E and I group. Perhaps more nursing groups should be differentiated within each of the bed indices. I can lively imagine that not all patients in a surgical ward have a similar nursing profile. It has also been proposed to assign a nursing weight per pathology per DRG. This gives the advantage that the care gravity is measured via one instead of two hospital-specific parameters, in particular the MZG. Moreover, their own registrations no longer play a role because they are used to assign national nursing weight to each patient group. The disadvantage, however, is that all differentiation in funding is made through these registrations per patient, with a higher risk of overcoding. There is therefore a need for a more thorough audit. The long and short care periods, i.e. less than 24 hours or 24 hours, now weigh equally heavily into the funding, and that is what is called an overvalue of the short care periods. Therefore, the impact of a differential weighting of the care periods on the basis of their duration should be investigated. There is indeed also a need for feedback on the nursing care profiles in all hospitals, so that each department of each hospital can be located in relation to the national figures. In this way, the clinical relevance of the nurse registrations increases. There is a need for audits, initial statistical audits and subsequent on-the-spot audits. Finally, a new systematic consultation has been initiated between the coordinators of the hospital nurses' registrations and the experts of the FPS. That seems to me to be a good initiative. Now I come to the administrative tasks. We often hear that care professionals spend a lot of time on administrative tasks, including recording data for different governments. The time they devote to this cannot be used to care for their patients. In the end, care for patients remains the core task of caregivers and hospitals. That is why I have made a commitment to administrative simplification. That is, of course, easier said than done, because many systems, such as hospital funding, require a large input of data and the policy itself is a large customer of data recorded in hospitals. In other words, there is a tension between the need for proper management of the hospital sector and the desire to reduce the burden associated with collecting the many administrative data. There are many initiatives under the eHealth Action Plan. The automatic extractions of data from the electronic patient file can greatly reduce the manpower needed for registration, but that is still future music. First, we need to be able to fully roll out the electronic patient file. I have therefore asked stakeholders to make proposals to simplify registrations and registers. From these proposals a number of quick wins have been distilled that we are already implementing, but of course it will not be the one-off exercise. The administration is therefore investigating a number of new slopes. I will also always take a critical attitude towards existing or additional administrative burdens. Work on control policy also has an impact on hospitals. The policy action plan for monitoring health care has some aspects in common with the reform of hospital funding. This plan was created in July 2016 following collaboration between INAMI and insurers. A platform of INAMI, which is in fact a new version of the Anti-Fraud Commission, is responsible for coordination. The plan contains different sub-themes. Firstly, there are structural measures. They aim to improve the effectiveness of controls and to promote transparency. Some examples of these measures are: - Systematic reading of the electronic ID card. This will become mandatory for all electronic billing. Discussions are under way to that end. This measure helps to combat fraud both among insured persons and among providers. - Mapping of provider practices. This is the creation of a hospital database for all health care providers per institution. The goal is to determine who works where to get an overview of billing orders. - A point of contact for health care, both for citizens and for providers. Citizens and caregivers are informed. In addition, each group has the opportunity to file a complaint using this accessible platform. The goal is to gain a better overview of health care through greater citizen participation. - The systematic audit of hospitals. A generic method is developed for evaluating hospitals under a multi-year programme. This will be implemented by INAMI, the Public Health FPS, the Regions and in collaboration with other stakeholders. A second important element is the fight against fraud. A medical imaging investigation is under way with respect to non-approved MRI devices and post-control of rock CT-scans and for examinations with skull CT or facial massif CT. Finally, the control policy also aims to stimulate the effectiveness of care. Relevant elements for hospitals are, for example, analysis of diagnostic services in co-existing physicians; evaluation of cardiology centres – coronography control, the number of CABGs (coronary artery bypass graphing) and PCTAs (percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty), rhythmology, electrophysiology, and promotion of rational prescribing practices in the face of polypharmacy. This is a real problem for the elderly. Indeed, this concerns psychotropic drugs, as well as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, gastric acid inhibitors, and cardiovascular medicines. The practice of prescribing in bandagery and technical orthopaedics is also examined. In conclusion, it is planned to evaluate Article 17 and to carry out an audit of the Memorandum of Understanding on Medical Imaging carried out with heavy medical equipment. These include monitoring CT to NMR, deployment of the cadastre, control of the PET and NMR moratorium, equitable geographical distribution, reduction of radiation load for the patient, and detection of overconsumption. I decide. When I look back at the year and a half since the presentation, on 28 April, I think we have done a lot of work. The hospital world is increasingly aware of the need to work differently. On the ground, bottom-up, we also see a lot of plans to work together more and make job agreements between hospitals. So there's a lot moving in the hospital landscape. The initiatives are often based on the concepts introduced in the plan of approach. I see initiatives to distinguish basic care and specialised care and to address low and high variable care, but the use of these concepts is still not sufficiently harmonised. Some of the initiatives are not always in the right direction. Some hospitals quickly seek partners to become even bigger together and to be able to offer even more high-tech equipment together. That kind of speeddates and the result isn't exactly where we want to go. We are really pleased that the sector is dynamic and taking initiatives, but there are still some mixed feelings. I often receive the signal that thorough reforms are indeed needed, but that nothing should change in the hospital in question. I also get the message that reforms are moving too fast or that the sector needs more time to work out the plans in concrete, workable proposals. Some say it's too slow. The comments therefore go all the way, as always in the case of reforms. In any case, it is positive that the concepts introduced are becoming more and more widespread on the ground. In addition, I note that there are increasingly interdisciplinary consultations within and between hospitals, but also between hospitals and other partners. Pilot projects, both in terms of financing reform and integrated care, have played an important role in stimulating this. Such interdisciplinary consultation will continue to be more important in the future, due to the need for transmural care coordination, especially when we think about the care of chronic patients. Care coordination will have to become permanent for many. In order to facilitate this process, self-employed care providers will increasingly have to work together so that they can take their rightful place as structural partners in the care landscape. I have already made a very long statement. For the work packages there is an even more detailed state of affairs, but for that I would need more than one meeting. However, I can assure you that the plan is in full swing. In general, both in terms of content and timing, the work packages are realised according to the plan. It is not always easy to keep the timing, because sometimes there are even more obstacles on the road than we could have suspected. There's also a lot of commitment I'm grateful for that from the field. Consultation with the Länder and the relevant administrations is also important. It is hard work for the administrations because, in addition to their usual tasks, they still have to make a lot of additional efforts in the context of the major and other policy areas concerned. At the same time, the recruitment of additional staff is not in the current budgetary context for them. There may be little concrete output on the ground this year. That was also announced. 2016 is especially the year in which a lot of supportive study work has to be done for each of the work packages, but from 2017 onwards, we will take real policy measures and implement the decisions taken. At the same time, there are already initiatives in the sector in view of the planned reforms. A first series of pilot projects is already giving birth with a shortened hospital stay. Pilot projects on home hospitalization will also start by the end of the year. In the course of 2017 you will see the new regulations, which we will also have to submit for advice to the appropriate advisory bodies in order to start implementation. I'll finish with a summary. We had a plan that was going smoothly, but in reality we were faced with a lot of obstacles on the ground. When we look at Who wants change, we see a picture of what we are facing on the ground. Well, everyone wants change. But with the question who wants to change there are already much less and when the question arises Who wants to lead the change, we are in the end alone. It ends somewhere in the middle and from there we continue. That's how we're gonna get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for this presentation. I suppose we can have the PowerPoints on the website of this commission. I shall now give the floor to the members of the committee. Mrs Muylle, you introduced a question. I give you the floor to begin with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for this comprehensive presentation. I think you are right to speak of an ambitious project within the framework of the coalition agreement. We all know that, because of the various reasons you have cited today, it is a long road and it is not easy to achieve this. I would like to ask some very specific questions. A first question concerns everything that has to do with the hospital concept. The mandate was given for a study of the KCE to be completed in spring 2017. You know better than anyone that there is a lot of movement on the premises today. It is also largely a matter of Community competence. Flanders has its regional hospital concept with its regional care strategic planning, there have been exercises from Zorgnet with driving times that divide Flanders into 14 regions, there are the studies from Leuven and Ghent. So there's a lot of movement on the property. This is due to the need for cooperation. In the future, we must go to a concentration of care. My concern is that this does not always work in an equally efficient way. For example, Flanders is today competent to recognise certain care programmes. This happens on a certain scale. Cooperation between hospitals is established because it is necessary to achieve certain volumes. I see that a lot of initiatives have recently been taken by the RIZIV, we are thinking of the mitra valves. You say that certain volumes must be reached, that there must be cooperation between different hospitals at the provincial level. When it comes to certain pathologies, it must even exceed the provincial boundaries. So there's a lot going on. I also see certain cooperation in the field which, at first sight, does not seem logical, which has to do with the competitive model that exists today. I often see collaboration between hospitals, where, for example, radiotherapy requires a patient to go 30 km further in order to receive radiotherapy, whereas there is actually a hospital at 5 km distance offering radiotherapy. Those things are going on. I do not give a value judgment on this, I just point out that the field of work is moving very strongly, especially on the Flemish side. In the context of the whole story about the KCE, the study and what is on the table, but above all the need for legal support that does fall within federal competence, the relevant regulations can be adapted at federal level. Certain choices are made. I have not heard you say this, nor have I heard you talk about evolving into a group or association or about the possibilities in this area. Together with the merger, there are also regulatory opportunities today, so my concern is that today there will be a very big dynamic. My question is therefore as follows: what is the state of your discussions with the Communities today? Are we not too slow and will the field of work not already largely have formed, with the resulting adverse consequences? So should we not speed up our vision and come up with legislation to ensure that the patient is given the right care? I am not convinced today, within the reforms that we all want, that what is happening on the ground is also the best. That was my argument in terms of concepts and hospital networks. My second point is the whole story about funding. I would remind you of the discussion at the KCE on the study on funding. What I understood from the discussion at the time is that it is not always easy to distinguish between the three groups, namely between what is low, medium and high variable, especially because the lines between them are not always clear. Moreover, in the context of reference amounts, we do not always have to deal with a low variability in resources. You've reported that, too. I understand, however, that you want to concentrate on what is a low variability in the reference amounts in a first phase. I understood, when I had heard some things within the KCE, that even more study work is needed than what is on the table today, in order to really achieve a good model. It was also normally foreseen that changes under the BFM would be made in 2016. You have shown it very comprehensively today, but I am still a little hungry in that regard too. I know the exercise is not obvious. Moreover, there are few good examples abroad in the context of cluster financing. These are all things that continue to last. Thanks to the results we see today in our Flemish hospitals, I actually see a very bad situation. There's actually a need for decisions. I'm seeing two evolutions. First, a shift to the patient. Secondly, in the context of more performance, overconsumption, I shall come back to this later on, in addition to a problem and effects that we do not really want in terms of hospital funding. A third point is all that has to do with urgency. You have replied to this very comprehensively. You also talked about the PIT, the ambulances and the financing model. Madam Minister, I have missed something in your speech on the financing of the KCE study on the urgency. We have had the concentration there up to about 70 emergency services. I understand that this is also closely linked to the exercise that will take place in the context of the hospital networks, but there was mixed funding, the general practitioners' guards, also the closure of a number of emergency services. My question is: what is your specific timing? You said you set up a task force. It needs to come up with an organisational model. In the original timing, this would also be included in the financing already in 2016. In the context of global emergency financing, what is your further timing? A fourth question concerns everything that has to do with pay for performance. I know this is a difficult exercise. We have said that 1% or 2% of the hospital budget should be retained for this. You have also referred to the proposals that would be listed in 2015 and to many experiences abroad. In all that discussion about quality, I have missed an element. I believe that we should have the debate on quality and financing, but rather quickly we are going to find ourselves in the Community which is actually responsible for quality. I am thinking, for example, of Four Quadraat and also of the hospitals that are currently working on accreditation, where everyone is setting up projects within the framework of JCI and the NIAZ. How do you conduct consultations with the Communities in this respect with a view to quality? What concrete steps can be taken together? A further question concerns fees and their division into a practical part and a professional part. You have explained very well the state of affairs. However, I have missed the link with governance. I understood, after all, that if this breakdown were to take place, it would involve control, especially with regard to the part of investment in the hospital. By the way, the KCE study also mentions that. How is the governance story linked to that? What is the state of play in this? I also have a question about the pilot projects. You explained that very well. Last week many hospitals also submitted their projects on home hospitalization, which in itself is a good thing. We believe very strongly in cooperation with the first-line aid, the dismantling of beds and increasingly outpatient care, because that seems to us to be the right way. On the ground, however, I am getting signals that this is not so easy at the moment, especially from the point of view of funding. For example, for hospitals where there is no pilot project for reducing the length of time in materiality today, it is essentially very good that a social debate is taking place. Especially in young women, there is a desire to go home more quickly. The link with funding lies in the enormous pressure on home care services, which suffer from a shortage of staff and resources. However, home care services fall within the competence of the Communities. I'm from the hospital sector, so I know how badly hospitals want to re-use budgets. In any case, there is also an impact on Community powers and home care. How is that taken into account in the pilot projects? I have three specific questions, Madam Secretary. You spoke about e-Health and the EPD, the electronic patient file. It is very nice that you spend extra money on this, some EUR 16 to 40 million. I can only speak from my experience in practice. The costs in hospitals are much higher than those of compensation, partly within the budget of the financial resources. I'm not saying that everything has to come from the government, but 40 million is pretty soon the amount one hospital pays today to go with ChipSoft or someone else for example. I see that in the next few years we will have to look for these amounts again in the hospital itself, very often by means of payments. This in turn results in pressure on consumption. I would therefore ask you to look at how the whole financing story can proceed in a good way. I have another question about the recalibratement and the Royal Decree 78. I understand what is happening on the ground today, but we see that it is difficult. There was a great ambition to accelerate many things in hospital funding, but for all kinds of reasons, it is much less fast and much less easy today. I would also remind you of the government agreement, which clearly states that we must move not only for hospitals, but also for the pharmaceutical industry, which has happened, and for other players towards a stable multiannual plan. Should we not go to a system for a few years before the new plan with its impact on funding has been fully rolled out, given that decisions are delayed and its clear impact on funding? In this way, we can create a stable multi-annual framework, including for hospitals, in which they can assume their responsibilities and make certain choices. I understand you'll be making a proposal on the Royal Decree 78 next week. As far as timing is concerned, when will it be introduced as a second yard? With regard to the re-examination of the nomenclature, there are of course a lot of things to do, such as attractions, quotas, traineeships and so on. You spoke of a scientific study of the RIZIV. For the last 20 years, every government has registered that point, so has this government. When can certain things be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your interesting and very comprehensive explanation. You know I follow that very strictly. I think there's some urgency. Especially when one sees that, for example, the Belfius and the MAHA studies show that a lot of hospitals are in red. Thanks to the funding systems, overconsumption and waste are taking into account what Professor Annemans writes about it. As Mrs Muylle has already said, the patient suffers. He's paying through the supplements. Just look at the parameter of the mutualities. I understand the process of change. It is indeed not easy and it is always much slower than one wants. The effects are often seen after eight years. The pitfalls and the thresholds mentioned earlier in the drawing have by definition been baked in and very often far too little account has been taken of them. But what I'm a little missing is that a number of agencies, caregivers, have made some changes in the past and haven't waited for the federal level. I have the impression that it is far too little looked at and taken into account. They could indicate what the pitfalls and thresholds were in the past. There is a great deal to learn from these different practices. Secondly, Mrs Muylle has said that somewhat more diplomatically than I probably do, when making changes one should always look at the pennies. Look for the money . That explains a lot. That explains a lot of resistance. If we change funding systems, this can also be a huge engine that can accelerate in real practice. I will not list everything, but one of the examples is cooperation, mergers and networks, whatever they are. If we do something about the financing, or if we do something about it, then you will find that these networks will work together much faster or better. There is now often the impression that co-operation will lead to the loss of resources in the long term. That uncertainty is holding back a lot. I also have the impression that the networks or dynamics that are now being created have a great deal to do with competition and with the realisation of things, which will undermine your regulation, which will have to achieve certain objectives. Don't underestimate those dynamics. There is competition between hospitals, but also between doctors. The cooperation and development of networks between doctors, across hospitals, is absolutely not evident unless it becomes clear in the short term, in terms of regulation and funding. I am thinking, among other things, of changing the nomenclature. So I would argue for a slightly greater sense of urgency. Thirdly, in reality, I am very much concerned with, especially older people, people who are staying in a hospital, going out and going back in. They go home, are admitted to a rest home for a while, or have to go to rehab. You should do that in reality. It is unheard of how old, single patients should help themselves and beg for help and coordination in all kinds of areas. It's gonna take a lot of work. Mrs Muylle asked a number of questions about consultation with the Communities and the Regions, on many items. That is absolutely necessary, because if we continue to do so, we will go to a fiasco. For the rest home sector too, we still find that there is a huge tradition in our country, namely that when someone dies, he or she has to go to hospital. However, rest homes or other forms of care, such as home care, could play a much greater role in this area. However, once again the remark is that if we do not regulate funding, recognition and opportunities, the reduction of beds in hospitals, which is likely to continue for financial reasons, will be disastrous for the care of people in need. Think about psychiatry in that regard. A lot of psychiatric beds have been cut down. However, did something replace it, or should people just wander around without care? You did mention something about control and governance in hospitals. In this respect, there is a very difficult balance, with underlying, of course, the financing mechanisms again. How do you look at that? How do you see this at the level of the networks? In this respect, we need to clarify different models much more quickly. As far as the many pilot projects are concerned, I am absolutely not against pilot projects for the sake of clarity. However, we must ensure that these pilot projects do not begin to resemble the flight of that vanished plane that they have never recovered and where the most recent discussion is about whether the pilot might have wanted to commit suicide. I hope that conclusions will be drawn quickly on this point and that a framework will be created. With regard to e-Health and its cost, I agree with what Mrs Muylle has said on the subject. Yeah, it's a good idea. After all, it is a very radical change. The reality of Northern and Southern Belgium and other finalities or cultures of works are a very important element in this respect. That is not clear. However, I think it is a good idea to draw up a well-structured multiannual plan so that we can make the sector clear when what will be achieved. Then they can prepare well or know very well on their own what one has to evolve to fit within the general policy that we ultimately want to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u10	Madam President, a great deal has already been said, and I shall be very brief. Madam Minister, like my fellow Members, I would like to congratulate you on your update and thank you for your complete overview of the various yards based on your earlier performance in April 2015. I don't have many questions right away, but some concerns and concerns. A first thought is about the financing based on the low variable care, which fits within the bundled payment principle you mentioned earlier. We fear a little that a lot of energy will be put into the distribution of that cake. I fully understand your approach and I am aware of the complexity of the discussion, but the energy that goes to dividing the cake does not go to the real concern. That is an important problem, especially if I have understood my fellow Members correctly. A second point is the simplification of the budget, the BFM. I fully understand that you remain on the plain and I look forward with you to the outcome of the discussions that will follow. We share your concern about the complexity of the current calculations and the keys. I note that you can count on the help of the professional associations, which seem to have committed themselves, and that is a good thing. As long as there's encryption, there's optimization of coding. At the moment we are shining a bit in the multitude of coding, which gives rise to a lot of administrative work. Also, those who are involved in administration and coding are no longer concerned with care. A third point that we would like to emphasise is that we are still a little bit stuck with the scientific accountability of the healthcare providers themselves. For example, a few months ago the profiles committee was abolished, and we have some reservations about this. We are missing out on this whole story, and you yourself have said this in so many words: clarity and transparency about the real economic perspective of our health product. What is the cost of a state-of-the-art treatment, also based on the evolution of a pathology? Which are the real quality measurements and tests? Is there also a test against best practice? Are the real costs calculated? I believe that this involves the activation of the scientific associations in this area. A fairly independent source is also needed to provide you with the right cost picture. At the moment, we believe that all this remains a little vague. In the hospital world too many places happen. And the doctors themselves are not really concerned with the organization of the care but with the administration of the care themselves. At the moment, there is a bit of a risk that the whole governance story will pass them by. The review therefore certainly requires a part for the organisation of the care but exercised by the doctors themselves. A head of a large service bears responsibility and should be included in the governance story. This means that he must be well trained, that he can pursue a sound supportive policy not only for his hospital but also in his region through a network of services in the area and a network of general practitioners and other outpatient care. The government has a stimulating role to play here. Those concerned should be handcuffed and encouraged to do it better and cheaper. In fact, they must constantly be told a mirror of what has really been realized, starting from a scientific evidence and a proper cost. But I still miss all that a little bit. Then there is the difficult discussion about pay for performance of pay for quality. Again, I have the greatest understanding of the complexity of the matter for the warriors, the stakeholders. I am glad that you want to draw this matter to your attention, and I wish you every success in doing so. I would just like to emphasise once again the difficulty of registering a significant group of care providers, and I will illustrate this by means of the so-called kermit procedure, which I myself know well. Filling in the kermit procedure usually takes longer than the procedure itself, sometimes even twice as long. And I'm afraid we'll be over the target. I also know that it is a big deal to get the right quality and performance indicators in place, but we will help you from the sidelines and, if possible, we will leave the bank to play on the field. I have little to add to Mr Muylle's concerns about the financing of the electronic patient file. I have every respect for your timeline in this matter, Madam Minister, which I find very ambitious. We'll follow you in this. I would like to underline seven times your plea for administrative simplification. I'm really looking forward to that. In that connection you also mentioned some quick wins, although you remained vague. I would have liked to have heard a little more detail about that. Finally, I come to one less point of the political business, in particular that of control and sanction. That was never a strong point in politics, because there is rarely any courage in this respect. It is measured, recorded, profiled, but the ultimate step, the review and the consequences for. those some rotten apples....................................................................................................................................................................................... In the meantime, the whole group is faced with a cheese bowl, with the gradual phasing out of nomenclature numbers. The convention figures are rising quietly and we are finding a great fatigue in the care on the ground itself. I hope that you will take that into account and have the courage and the strength to put the necessary speed and speed into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u11	Minister, thank you for this extremely broad and comprehensive information. Before participating in this committee, I took a look at the two previous reports, the one concerning the hearings and the one entitled 'Lines of strength'. I must say that a number of things that have been put forward at the time are now on the agenda. Of course, there is an update, as pointed out by Mr Vercammen, but I would like to stress the coherent side of your methodology, of your functioning. I think it's a good thing, even though you've been talking about tangles. And I think they are indeed important. Before I ask specific questions, however, I would like to point out how interested we are and how much we appreciate the fact that you wanted to work with actors on the ground. You said that in all the cases we are undertaking, it is also the patient who must be at the centre of the debates and interests. I note that you respect your word by insisting that health care must be accessible primarily to everyone. Of course, the construction site you've undertaken is titanic. Many have talked about it before you, but there is certainly a very clear progress here. If I'm talking about titanium construction, it's because unfortunately you're not the only one who can take initiatives. As you have pointed out, there is a need to work with a number of actors, not just the medical sector. There are also political actors. Could you give us a little more information about the consultations you have with the federated entities? Of course, a joint statement has come into being, but do you feel that the will to move forward in your case is felt in the same way by the federated entities and that the will is to go as fast, whether north or south of the country? Let me turn to my second question. You talked about the consultation with the actors in the field and with the medical profession. We know this, given some of the issues we discussed in the course of 2016: not everyone is always on the same wavelength. Here's my question. At the moment, by referring to these actors on the ground, or by hearing them, do you think that in the long run there is a way to find a consensus that would allow all the specialties to be found in your hospital financing project? My third question concerns pilot projects. Of course, the methodology is excellent. Experience shows that with pilot projects, we know whether we're in the right place or not. You may have alluded to it, but I'll see what you have to say about it. As I understand it, the hospitals that have been integrated into these pilot projects have been shown on a voluntary basis. Have you, the minister, been confronted with a number of hospitals that wanted to participate, but that for simply logistical reasons, because there were too many, could not be integrated? What about those hospitals that are voluntarist or really want to move forward, but unfortunately have not been taken up? Have we thought about a specific status for these? In the same vein, I agree with this desire, which you have expressed, to work as a network. This means, in the long run, setting up networks, always in the idea of staying in a care policy based on scientific evidence, efficiency etc. At some point, I imagine that this desire to work as a network will also aim to share expertise, and, in addition to that, to make economies of scale. Today, is there a willingness to reduce the number of centres that are currently in operation? If so, do you already have an approach to this? As I said, your reform is ambitious. I'd like to go back to the time line or back-planning you're proposing. I remain firmly convinced that you want to move forward, as you show in many cases. However, your last slide is quite explicit here. I remain with a question mark about your willingness to get the first results, as you said, in 2018, and your ability to do so. Why do I say that? Because, at some point, you talked about pitfalls and even a lot of pitfalls, pitfalls that were expected but others that were not. Given, Madam Minister, that you are talking about pitfalls that could probably delay your ambitious plan, could you give us concrete information about the kind of pitfalls that you are encountering and that could undermine the retro-planning that you have set yourself? Are there any specific things that block? That is what I would like to hear from you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your presentation. Compared to the whole reform of hospital funding, three pillars seem to me to be the heart of what needs to be addressed: both quality of care and efficiency, accessibility and continuum of care before and after the hospital. The hospital is obviously not a deserted island. At the same time, as you mentioned at the beginning of your speech, a whole series of other fundamental issues are closely linked to the reform of hospital funding and the hospital landscape. Seeing one aspect independently of the others poses problems more than it solves. I am thinking of the reform of Royal Decree No 78. By the way, I would like to stress the consultation in this matter because, to my knowledge, there has been a meeting with those concerned, but the symposium is already scheduled for 28 September. There is the reform of the nomenclature and the whole issue of hospital reconstruction. On this point, I would stress that this can be a narrow part of the investment plan, because it not only creates jobs with the construction sector, but also invests today in order to be able to make savings tomorrow. I am thinking in particular of the way in which hospitals will be reorganised, but also of the whole aspect of new technologies. I will sweep across the board because there are many things to say on many points. There are a lot of questions, too, but I want to look at four main areas that I want to highlight most today. The first concerns governance and the evolution of networks. I would still like to hear you reaffirm that the network approach will always be bottom up and not top down and that there will be the maintenance of freedom of association at network level: freedom of association between them (such as hospital with such hospital), freedom of association on legal forms, because there are different ways of establishing partnerships. If I wanted to hear from you about this, it was because of the noise from the corridor that is circulating about an approach that would have evolved since your initial presentation. I would therefore like you to speak clearly on this matter. It is all the more important to have a precise framework, since a series of advances are being made on the ground with mergers, partnerships, connections between hospitals and with regard to the way in which different hospitals will embark on reconstruction projects, how they will change both their hospital landscape, the number of beds but also the way in which the different services and channels for patients are organised, and therefore the concomitant fears about this development, which is being made spontaneously, the concomitant fears about current and future funding. This always raises questions and does not necessarily allow partnerships to work as quickly and deeply as possible if there was a clear framework. I can only allow myself, in this case, to push for the establishment of the political framework, which must be defined, as soon as possible. A series of KCE studies are underway today, but hospitals are moving forward and it would be a shame, because the political framework is not clearly established, that, in the end, we are slowing down – that would be the end – the process on the state side, without wanting to, but that would be a direct consequence. We must therefore do this quickly. In terms of funding, whether it is lack of transparency, the complexity of current funding, structural financing, successive budget cuts in recent years, announcements made – I hear some parties in the majority announcing that there are still significant savings to be made in health care. One minister said: "We pay well for his newspaper. Why not pay more for health?" This obviously raises a very large number of questions. What guides the decisions that are being made today are the savings. You yourself talked about structural underfunding. At the beginning of the legislature, you did not say so. Probably you have become aware since then of the studies carried out, even if they do not date from today. The results always converge. If financial mannes are to be released in the light of the evolution of the hospital landscape, they must be used for reinvestment because of structural under-financing, but also because, on the patient's side, there is the reality of the cost to him – which is now 20%. Another reason is this form of spiral of private insurance, whose premiums have exploded in recent years. I take the example of the pilot projects on the shortening of maternity leave, which number seven, each receiving 40 000 euros. Meanwhile, 18 million euros of savings have been imposed. You're going to retort me that you withdrew the measure. Of course, you have done so in terms of the number of days and the budget line, but you have imposed the same savings budget on all hospitals. The amount of EUR 18 million was obviously not reinvested where it should have been. If you choose this path, you run to failure, both for the patient and for the quality of care. It is also the pre- and post-hospital situation that will suffer. Third big part, the P for P, Pay for Perfomance. Let us recognize that, scientifically, when we look at experiments abroad, we cannot say that this is an impeccable demonstration. In my personal capacity, however, I am convinced of the P for P, but foreign scientific studies challenge me and scientific literature in relation to this is still quite controversial. A whole series of hospitals have already made progress on the use of performance indicators. They have already received accreditations at the level of performance indicators with different qualitative components. These procedures are excessively cumbersome and are in addition to all the encodings imposed at Belgian level. Minister, will you guarantee those who are already using performance indicators today that they will be able to use the same international performance indicators? For some, it took years. Some are also on the move today and are in the process. I think it is important to be able to assure them that we will not sweep away what has been done with a back of our hand to choose other indicators. It must also be done with a fairly precise analysis of everything you want to encode. We keep adding encodings without always knowing exactly what it's worth and especially if it's going to be used. Finally, as far as the funding envelope is concerned, is the objective to use part of the funding to redistribute it between hospitals? Actually, it's redistribution. Or will this P for P be used to bring an additional manna that would actually allow to have a plus by linking it with the qualitative shutters? If it's redistribution, if it's re-ventilation between hospitals, we can see right away that it won't be easy, when there's structural underfunding and a difficult reality. In this respect, I really think that it would be interesting to have a dedicated envelope, which would actually make it possible to propose a surplus, as, if I dare say, an additional "financial core" according to a series of indicators, provided – I repeat – that we do not sweep the indicators already used for some hospitals today. Finally, on bringing about change through pilot projects. That could be interesting. However, in the pilot projects selected, some already existed, without being pilot projects. I know a lot of hospitals that worked in the maternity department with caregivers for this partnership when the young mother and the baby left home. Hospitals were already doing HAD (home hospitalization) even though it is known that this involves a small number of patients, prior to the launch of the pilot projects. I understood that new pilot projects would be launched in the fall. We're almost in the fall. Is it still an idea that is retained? If so, can we have a little more information on the type of new pilot projects that would be launched? In conclusion, in a cross-cutting way, I would allow myself to rely on the accelerator for two aspects: that of consultation first. As you explained, several meetings have taken place. You recalled with whom, in what context, on which topics, etc. Good, it's an important step. There is still a need to take into account the consultation process. Rest, Madam Minister, on a huge expertise that exists on the ground and on people on the ground who had already launched a whole series of things before politics took an interest in it. Secondly, I would like to support the accelerator for the financial side. You understand that. I have taken the example of maternity, but I could give other examples in relation to savings made in recent years. These savings must be savings of reinvestment. I would like to know whether you have a political agreement in your government that if there are financial margins created through efficiency, they will be reinvested and not used for anything else. The positions of your majority partners suggest that we are going to look for this budget to do something else. I've even heard some say that we're going to use health budgets for ISOC, which means corporate tax reform. This is obviously particularly challenging. After two years, I cannot imagine that you did not have a political discussion with your majority partners on the issue. Finally, I will start from the previous slide:who wants to lead the change? I don't agree with you. Even if you have used the slide where there is no longer a cat in the room when you ask the question of who wants to lead the change, I think on the contrary that in relation to the field, there are many things that have been achieved long before the policy starts: HAD, post-maternity partnership exit, hospital partnership associations, day hospital, performance indicator. Unlike the slide you showed, I think these actors are present with their expertise. If we're not moving in an economy logic to fund other wills in other government files, but on the qualitative, efficiency, patient accessibility, continuum of care before and after the hospital, I'm sure you'll find a lot more people in the room than you've presented here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u14	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u15	Keep going in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u16	Madam Minister, I shall begin by congratulating you. I think you draw very well. Apart from the drawings, I don't feel like I've learned much today. I would remind you that, for my group, reform seems essential. The studies were initiated in 2013 by Laurette Onkelinx. We are sure that this reform is essential to the sustainability of our system, to the sustainability of its quality, its effectiveness and its accessibility. There's no doubt about that. The problem is that I have the feeling that we have a lot of studies and pilot projects that have been initiated to the left and to the right, but I have the feeling that the whole lacks prioritisation and, above all, implementation. Moreover, when we want to talk about the calendar, you say that we are moving forward, that it is for the summer of 2017, and that everything will be efficient in 2018, but it is still a little light compared to what had been asked. I would remind you that we were talking about a multi-year plan, which would go beyond the framework of the legislature. What about this calendar? It seems to me that this remains unclear. With regard to the budgetary impact, again, there is little clarity. Of course, I join my colleague. There was no question that the plan was intended to generate savings for the State. It was said that the savings that would be realized would be reinjected. What are you actually considering? What do you intend to do? Do you have any figures and can we have an estimate of what this could produce? What's your feeling? Should this result in savings, and in this case, do you commit to re-injecting this money into health care, or do you intend to fund ISOC with them? If this does not generate savings, do you have a plan B? In view of all the cuts in the budget, what are we going to do? Before making projects and saying that they will be implemented in 2018, it would be time to have more precise figures, particularly in relation to the chronic underfunding of hospitals. This is very real, and we are still cutting budgets. It's getting more and more serious and we don't know what we're going to. That is why it is a matter of concern to see the lack of more precise figures. In fact, we are also in favour of progress on the reform of the hospital landscape, and on the specialization of hospitals. I could give examples of what is being done in Liège in this scheme. But what seems to me to be missing in your presentation are, apart from these recasts and specializations, subjects on which we are convinced that we need to move forward, indications of geographical accessibility. We can hear the desire to coordinate and move towards reductions, but we must continue to ensure the geographical accessibility that I believe is important for the well-being of patients. In order to implement this reform, we also consider it essential to take account of the current reality, of course, but also of all the actors involved. You mentioned the meetings you may have had. But what we have to do is that workers' unions have not been consulted much. Is this statement correct or not? Have you consulted them? If so, when? How many times? It seems to us that the implementation of this reform will obviously require the agreement of the field workers, of all the staff who will have to live with these reforms. I read in the approach plan for the pilot projects that you have launched that – I quote – "aspects of adjacent regulations that may hinder the development of creative and innovative organisational and financing arrangements must be reported." You also say that "proposals to remove such barriers are recommendable." Here you point directly to the flexibility of working time or the organisation of work. I'd like you to clarify what you mean by "flexibility." We hear a lot about this term, which is very fashionable. But what does that mean for staff? In the new model proposed by the KCE, the flat-rate funding is extended and the rates are based on the average real costs of quality care for the pathology in question. We have no problem with this desire to make a system more coherent. That seems logical to us. But I would also not like to see this flat-rate system become a panacea. When we see the French experiments, where this system has been put in place, we find that at some point a selection of patients has taken place. Patients were no longer taken for whom it was known that the expenses would exceed the package. However, I would like to pay attention to this. I repeat that lump sum funding is not the best. I come to an aspect of your presentation that surprised me a bit. We understand the system of the three clusters. It's a complex system. In its study, the KCE said: "The readability of the system is also an aspect that should not be overlooked if it is to receive sufficient support on the ground. Reconciling the two is an almost unrealizable challenge." That was optimistic! When you read this, you ask yourself questions. Minister, I read about your slide that the definition of very complex, non-standardized care was not yet completed and required further study. I would therefore like to be explained, if we do not yet know what very complex, non-standardizable care is, how can we define those that are medium or variable-based. It seems to me essential to define what we're talking about and how we're going to separate them. Of course, I'm asking myself questions. Will only academic or university hospitals be able to admit patients for a stay with high variability? That's a question I'm asking myself. For low variability clusters, the major financial risk is borne by hospitals. Will they not therefore be tempted to encode a stay in the other types of clusters? How will the risk of overcoding be avoided? How will we determine which type of cluster stays? What about the treatment of outliers, atypical stays? Will they be part of the clusters? And above all, what will be the distribution of the available budget for these three clusters? Are we facing a closed budget? Or, and we are going back to the fundamental question of the budget, what are we going to with this proposed reform? I would also like to return to an important aspect of this reform, which you have addressed very little. This is the reduction of the income gap between doctors. It was pointed out in the study that the average wage per half-day of work for a nephrologist was 862 euros, while that for a dermatologist was 263 euros. So we see a big difference, while the number of years of study seems to me...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u18	A difference was pointed out quite significantly. There was provision for better consultation between doctors, directors and hospitals. What about it? What is the state of play? There is also the whole problem of the retrocession of fees that is related to these revenues between doctors. What concrete avenues are envisaged today in relation to this? I haven't read much about it. The issues of geographic accessibility and proximity were discussed; there was an important problem with specific funding for emergency services. It is obvious that all the settlements have these emergency services. These services are very expensive and are one of the important parts of chronic underfunding. At the time, my colleague, Mr Senesael, had sent you a written question because, according to an INAMI survey, 40% of emergency services bills would not correspond to reality. The current system encourages services to over-consumption, over-invoicing unjustified acts, due to the fragility of some hospitals. This problem seems important to me and I have not seen any particular attention. Do you think that the offer of general medicine in Belgium is sufficient in relation to this problem? Because you're trying to report it to the general practitioners. I can hear it, but it still takes enough, and enough, who will do the guards well, to be able to achieve it. As far as fee supplements are concerned, this far-reaching reform may seem to me to be conducive to relaunching, even if some do not want it, the debate on supplements, particularly for individual chambers and on their transparency. It is known that the under-financing of the hospital sector inevitably leads to a carry-over of costs on the patient. However, the question of this supplement is not on the agenda. I'm coming to the end, I assure you. Another issue is the inclusion of social factors in hospital funding. As you know, when a hospital sets up, it sometimes has to deal with a population that is more in difficulty than others. This factor is taken into account in the B8 subpart. What about your reform? Will you retain this opportunity to meet the expectations of socially disadvantaged populations? I come to my penultimate question. Part of the BMF funds costs related to clinical education, applied scientific research and developments in new technologies. This applies to hospitals which do not benefit from the B7A, in this case academic hospitals. We are talking about an amount of 20.7 million euros. According to the information received, a compensatory envelope of EUR 10 million was foreseen. That's fine, but it's less than half of what's in place right now. Will you maintain the possibility for non-academic hospitals to be able to conduct applied scientific research and clinical teaching? How will you move from a budget of EUR 20.7 million to EUR 10 million, if that is the case? If my information is correct, a conference is scheduled for 28 September on the reform of the nomenclature of Royal Decree No 78. We know that it will have to cause this kind of change. In this regard, do you have a timetable for legislative reforms and developments? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed explanation. I am never in the habit of repeating at all what other Members have already said. A great deal has already been said, and I can support part of it. A number of things are not very clear. I would like very briefly to stress two points with which I am quite certain. Firstly, the state of the general practitioners' wards and the relationship with the emergency departments. In the case of general practitioners, however, there is concern about maintaining their independence, which causes some commotion. I don't think I've heard much about that. A second point that other Members have already mentioned is more specific: what exactly are you going to do about overconsumption? These are measures which you have announced several times in your policy paper and which you would also include in the reform of hospital funding. A third and final point will not surprise you. As a number of Members here know very well the hospitals, I have been poked and messed up in primary care and in home care. A great deal has already been said about the pilot projects for abbreviating hospital residence. I'm looking at one project in Leuven with a magnifying glass. In this respect, as you know, I fully support the initiative or idea and the underlying vision of the project. However, it is not obvious. There are many obstacles in practice. For example, computer science and being able to talk to each other are a horror. Each hospital has its own system. The general practitioners also have their own computer system. The midwifes also have a different system. In this respect, the pilot projects really run into problems, which cannot be solved at all with a co-ordination premium of EUR 40 000. That communication costs a lot of money. Once again, I would like to call for a review of the problem of balancing systems. It should not then be underestimated how much effort it takes to get the noses in the same direction in practice. That coordinator therefore has more than 40 000 euros to manage these projects. What also strikes me in this is that if we want to carry out a scientific monitoring of this, that is also all goodwill that happens so to speak for free. I suggest not to wait a year to do that evaluation, but perhaps to call the projects together on a country-by-country basis to see if we can make efficiency gains or learn from each other or do the joint pain points there again. After all, it would be particularly unfortunate if a less good evaluation were partly due to problems that and course the route can be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for the presentation on the state of hospital funding. Before we could complete that position, we had to bring in a passage from the coalition agreement. I quote: 'The current funding system of hospitals is being thoroughly revised. The new financing system should cover the operating costs of hospitals and evolve correctly with evolving needs. It should be less structural and performance-driven and encourage institutions and healthcare providers to act qualityfully and result-orientedly in other relevant areas such as accessibility, timeliness, safety, effectiveness, effectiveness. The explanation was clear. The pilot projects, the plan of action and the studies of the KCE clearly show that we are on track. I do not think that we should start with you here, but it might be easier to paraphrase that the road is still long. In any case, I wish you much courage. A specific question I have concerns quality as a parameter. Everyone agrees that we need to go more and more towards quality as a parameter in the financing of hospitals. Perhaps I have not understood or heard correctly, but what criteria do you think the quality indicators should meet so that they could be used for funding? A second point that goes along with this is that the Communities naturally play an important role in this. As we all know and as we have already said, Flanders is committed to accreditation of hospitals. How is it going to relate to each other? Are agreements made, have already been made and what is the planning for this? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u21	First of all, I am very pleased that so much work is being done in the short term, after so many years of distortion. Among others, colleague De Coninck mentioned that one in two hospitals is in red. Now something's finally happening. That is a huge boost for practice and a very important achievement. The most important thing I've missed here is the standard line for the nurses. In the past, I have often come back to that. It's totally out of date. I have always understood from your answers that this exercise would also be integrated into the reform of hospital funding. Can we also give that profession a spark of hope? We are talking about a group that is having a very difficult time on the ground. This problem is closely linked to the red figures presented by hospitals. The standard practice is so low that the hospitals still partly finance, but we often see in the field that the workload is still enormous. In addition, we are more committed to speeding up home rehabilitation, which is of course a good thing, but that also ensures that care is much more complex and compacted during the period of hospital stay. In that context, it is a bit attached to it, you said that you want to make the BFM much more transparent. I certainly think that is a good thing, but I would specifically like to know whether there will be a better follow-up on how the BFM is used in practice. The calculation of the amount allocated to hospitals is one thing. Another issue is how these resources are used in practice. Several written questions I have put to you on this point show that this is not being monitored at all today. So we do not know how hospitals spend these resources. So let us leave aside those important things that allow us to achieve efficiency gains. Indeed, these data could give us an answer to, for example, the question whether hospitals that are more committed to nursing bestaffining also offer a higher quality of care. We therefore have a very important road to go for registration. As far as supplements are concerned, reference was made to the source, which is not currently the RIZIV. We would certainly benefit from an objective mapping and inclusion in the exercise. Another example of things that are not registered today, but which we are certainly asking for, is the referral. At the moment we do not know whether a patient has taken the initiative to consult a particular echelon on his own initiative. However, this seems important to me, so that we can generate care more often in the first instance to the lower lines. Now I come to the better use of resources, the reduction of the number of beds and more bets on extramural care, which my colleague Nathalie Muylle has already spoken about. We certainly think this is a good approach, but in the past I have often pointed out that this often means more work not only for home care and the lines that deal with that level of care, but also that these budgets will increase. I have already seen several times that this sector is being responsive and sanctioned in the event of budget overruns. I think we should make sure that they become communicating vessels. We cannot demand that more be devoted to home care but at the same time retain or even reduce the funding of home care at the same level when it comes to responsible consumption. You talked about the pilot projects, and I'm certainly curious about how they go. Are there any concrete examples of results, of a successful project? It is difficult for me to imagine anything concrete. As far as pilot projects are concerned, I have pointed out earlier that a hospital should always be included as a partner. This is a matter of concern because, if I draw it on bottles, a particular sector, in particular the hospital sector, shows that care can be cheaper at another level. So there are concerns about this cooperation, but perhaps the practice proves otherwise. I would certainly also like to join with the comments I have heard from Mrs Fonck and Mrs De Coninck on package financing, with the question of whether care outside the hospital is also being looked at and how we can encourage more on the right lines. I think that the question has also been asked specifically about the fees and the aspect of the payments in them. I am also very curious about the extent to which they are included in the exercise. There is one last, certainly not insignificant, aspect to protect the patient. I think it is very good that quality will be used. You have worked out a number of timetables for the various reforms. For example, will package financing be used simultaneously or first to measure quality? After all, I believe that both must go hand in hand to protect the patient from proper care. Everyone may be able to do the care cheaper, but the quality must be guaranteed. I would therefore like the assurance that this reform will take place first or at the same time as the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your presentation, which was particularly interesting while being quite broad. My colleague asked you several questions and commented on the general part, so I wanted to ask you more specifically about the question of the place of academic hospitals in the future hospital chessboard. We all know that the country's academic hospitals are particularly successful. Their outreach is also international. There are excellent medicines that contribute significantly to the advancement of medical knowledge. In your approach plan, you propose to fund these academic hospitals for their teaching and research missions, without specifying how or how much. It is on this subject that I would have liked you to go further if you already have some answers. Indeed, according to one of the hearing reports, some hospitals were already complaining repeatedly about the underfunding of Part B7 in the BMF. I would therefore like to know the modalities and extent of future funding for these academic hospitals. The second point I wanted to address is the role of academic hospitals in the future health care system. You want to set up networks. I saw it in your Power Point. That's a great idea. There will be a number of reference centres everywhere, but they will not necessarily be located in an academic hospital. Can you give me more information? Maybe I didn't get everything in the presentation. I have one last question about this place of academic hospitals in the context of the regionalisation of academic hospitals that looms on the horizon. How will the national or international character of the regional part of the hospital be taken into account? As far as ambulances are concerned, I saw that you were putting forward a fee. Do you take into account ambulances that depend on emergency areas? What are the ambulances linked to the emergency areas and serviced by the AMU firefighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u23	Thank you, Mrs. de Coster-Bauchau. If you don't mind, I'll add a few questions or comments from my chair. Madam Minister, as you know, with my colleague Anne Dedry, we obviously support a reform of hospital funding. We are in favour of networking, re-establishing the hospital in a care landscape, and changing funding to better identify and separate providers from other hospital costs and funding. However, it implies, as you have said, that we touch on other dimensions. You mentioned the reform of Royal Decree 78 and the nomenclature. There is a day of study on the royal decree scheduled for 28 September. Unfortunately, we have two bills in committee that day. Nevertheless, I would have wanted to know two things now. There's this first day, where things will be presented. Is this the beginning of a process? Are you going, as you have done with the reform of hospital funding, to announce a plan with beacons and a way of working, or do you already have elements that clearly redefine certain medical professions in relation to each other? I would like to know this in such a way that we can ensure that these changes are linked to other changes in the organisation of care, particularly in the organisation of care in hospital facilities. That seems important to me. In the introduction, you recalled the difference between justified beds and approved beds, the existence of this difference and this excess number of acute beds compared to beds for chronic patients or geriatric patients, etc. That was the observation made in April 2015 when you came. We are almost at the end of 2016. Do you have an accurate picture of evolution? Is the evolution of the number of beds in the way you are looking for? I will continue this issue with developments on the ground, as several have said here during the discussions. We see rallies and groups of hospitals. This takes different forms, but by territory of care there is a reorganization. Some specialize in agreement with hospitals that will not develop the same services. I would like to know how these reorganisations and rapprochements which take place spontaneously, but which are also triggered by the reform that you have put in place, are being followed to ensure that the criteria and the progress of the plan designed to promote network practices are met with a view to ensuring true compatibility between the spontaneous developments and the project that you are planning. This also applies to pilot projects and experiences in connecting home care to hospital care. You say that the advice will be modernised through the redesign. Is the reorganization of hospital ethics committees a part of it or is it a separate chapter? I asked you an oral question in committee. I assume that developments have taken place since then. With regard to the links between hospitalisation and extra-mural care, I spoke last April indicating that I was bored with a name. It is true that we are in the context of a reform of hospital funding and that you want to shorten the duration of hospitalizations by promoting home care, possibly complex. The formula used is home hospitalization, so get things out of the hospital to the ambulance. I interrogated you and kept thinking after what I heard this afternoon. Taking the hospital as a starting point for what will develop in outpatient care rather than in hospital is a truncated vision, which could harm coordination and the outpatient care hospital network. I think we need a doorway in the other direction, namely the complex home care that will be developed, rather than going to the hospital. The ambulance would then eventually create collaborations with complementary hospital services. In what will be done and in the face of the difficulties expressed by several speakers, I think there is a lack of arrival of the flow in the other direction, from the ambulance to hospital complementarity, rather than always considering the hospitaller towards the ambulance. I also have a question about the agenda for emergency services, guard stations, combinations between the use of the first line and the use of emergency services. Where are we? How are things planned and planned? I would also like more information on how the federal government and the federated entities work on different specific themes. We talked about quality, shared competence, but also the ambulance-hospitalist since the development of the ambulance is also increasingly a regional competence. It is clear that for the reduction of stays during childbirth, the difficulty is to organize outpatient care in an efficient way, combined with home helpers, etc., of regional competence. So, one has to anticipate the other and it requires shared agendas in how to work. So, in the course of interdepartmental conferences and consultations, is there a way of working that proves to be more effective? Estimation of the time required for encoding and recording is an important data to be taken into account, especially when made by professionals, care providers (nurses, doctors). It was thought that if we encoded in a harmonized way, it would free up time. Experience shows that this is not necessarily the case. In working time and in the management of work, these are data that need to be included in order to know what work is in a hospital service, in its liaison with other hospitals or in the outpatient environment, so as to take this into account in the financing but also in the organisation of services and in refinancing. In the plan, you did not accept the harmonization of remuneration between medical specialists in the different categories, one of the KCE's proposals. On the other hand, you are considering lump sum funding where there is little variability. So, somewhere, through this bias, we probably do it too. Nevertheless, I understand that, through the studies you have requested on "average variability", as you call it, in order to distinguish between fees, professional practices etc., one could arrive at an identification of a fair remuneration in relation to costs and possibly this harmonisation. But I may take my dreams for reality. I would therefore like to have more details on what you are pursuing in this area through these decomposed costs of practice, professional costs and expenditure and patient contributions in funding. We will take a five-minute break before we resume our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u24	Minister, I give you the floor to respond to this salve of comments and questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u25	That is still the case in this committee, Madam Chair. Mrs Muylle, with regard to the study of the Knowledge Centre, I note that it is just because there is so much networking on the ground that, with all due respect for the time needed for the Knowledge Centre to complete the study, namely until mid-2017, we felt that we should advance the yard around the networks. A concrete proposal will therefore be presented later in 2016 and will be consulted with the Länder. On one of the slides, I have already outlined the broad lines of that proposal, namely to what extent we will achieve the conceptual note. When we talk about the financing of low variable care, it is not just about pathology groups for which reference amounts are given. Things are much broader. The split-off will be done in collaboration with the experts. The study of the Knowledge Centre was completed on 22 March 2016. It is, of course, included in the reform of urgent medical aid. By the way, there is also an audit for the general practitioners' watch stations. Several Members have asked for this. The audit is now under way and should provide us with the necessary information on the location of the general practitioners' posts as well as on the way in which cooperation with and referral to hospitals is carried out. This also applies to referrals to general practitioners. In this way, the general practitioner, if there is a problem, can solve the problem, either a waiting doctor or the doctor who treats the patient normally. That is what is happening now in the pilot projects, like one in Tienen. That seems to be going very well. As far as the pay for quality principle is concerned, the indicators will have to be defined in consultation with the Länder. With regard to registration, the only-once rule applies, with each indicator being recorded only once. For this reason, I have also said that the right things must be taken out of registrations. Preferably there are no additional registrations needed anymore, but we do not rule that out, because it also depends on what exists on the site. Mrs. Fonck, you asked if it was extra. No, it is a limited levy of 1 to 2 per cent of the budget that needs to be redistributed. As to whether I can give "small carrots" in surplus, the budgetary situation is not conducive to this. How are the networks controlled? The governance of the network needs to be looked at, which is precisely what we are now putting forward in order to speed up progress on the ground. That question comes from the grounds, too. What already exists exists. There are people who work in associations, but we learn that there are limitations. It doesn't make everything possible. In particular, the collaboration of the support services I am thinking of buying and distributing medication.... between different hospitals cannot currently. We will therefore have to do extra work to see how more cooperation can be achieved. As regards the shortened duration after delivery, it was noted that there are also hospitals that apply the reduced duration but do not participate in the pilot projects, which means that they do not receive the additional amount for coordination. We have already selected two more for pilot projects. We were going to select five. It's been seven years. I'm glad the young mommies who can participate in it too. Belgium is, by the way, the country where you spend the longest time in the hospital when you have a normal childbirth and a healthy baby. We were real champions in staying in the hospital for a long time. As far as home comfort and hygiene are concerned, the current situation should not be compared with that of three generations ago, where not everyone had the necessary sanitary facilities to go home. So there's a lot going on on the premises. The role of the midwife is also becoming more important again. For a while it was replaced by the medalisation of everything that belonged to pregnancy and childbirth. I believe that in most cases this is a sign of health. It's a good thing there's so much support on the premises. With regard to the intervention for ICT adjustments for and between hospitals, the budget of EUR 40 million was adopted with both hands, including by the people of Zorgnet-Icuro who said this would speed up the pace. I realise that this does not cover all the ICT costs, but it has never been the intention of the government to finance all the hospitals' ICTs. However, it is a more than important incentive. This is also one of the budgets that has been refilled. In order to give that EUR 40 million, I need to save EUR 40 million elsewhere. I welcome a stable multiannual plan for hospitals. Write it down, I think that's a very good idea. We could learn a lot about how to spread our investments and so on. I just wish I had that for the budget, too. When we started with this government, I had to submit a plan for savings in health care of 3.2 billion over the entire legislative period. In the meantime, I have a savings plan of 3.6 billion on this legislature. When I read the newspapers and hear the comments, including what is said in Plopsaland, I know that my budget will go down rather than up. Anyway, it certainly sounds like music to me. As far as KB 78 is concerned, a lot of people have already asked. In other reforms we consult, always and many, all the actors involved. The same goes for the hospital reform, with the hospital domes. For the Royal Decree 78, however, we are talking about a lot of people, a lot of organisations, and that was not really possible in practice. That is why we are holding this consultation with all the representatives of the field on 28 September. The intention is for us to get input from them, preferably in the days, but perhaps in the weeks after that, because they will also have to look at these matters and meet on them. We will then draw up a plan of action, which I will also present in this committee. In total, some 600 000 people are involved, although they are represented, but you can understand that we cannot receive so many people. Mrs De Coninck, I hear you say it's urgent. Well, I joined this Health Committee in 1999 and then Minister Frank Vandenbroucke said that hospital funding would be reformed because it was urgent and necessary. So we are on the same page, but unfortunately we are now seventeen years later. It is still urgent and still necessary. In a hurry, I'm moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u27	That's true. Several things have already happened. I was the courageous reporter of the committee's very technical work in the meetings on hospital funding at the time. You will probably find my works in the archives of the Chamber. You say that a number of changes have already taken place on the ground. In Antwerp you have already made some changes, especially mergers and mergers, under your care. Of course, if cooperation already exists, it will be taken into account. We can ask ourselves whether these partnerships still need to be extended, but also bottom-up. The existing mergers will of course be charged. I told you, we're not leaving a white leaf. However, we do know where we want to go, in which hospital landscape we want to wake up when the reform has happened and how the organisation for the patient would work best. It certainly takes account of what already exists. You yourself say that older people find hard to find their way to health care and find it difficult to return home. They are dependent and can fail to draw up a plan, so that they may have to be re-recorded. That is why, first and foremost, there is a need for integrated care. After all, older people are almost all chronic patients. There is also a need for better transmural care and continuity of care and cooperation around the patient. We take this into account in the reform of the Royal Decree 78, so that there is better cooperation around the patient in which everyone takes responsibility. It is indeed a large group that we must take into account, both now and in the future, because families are no longer so great and the chances of one of the children living close by are reduced if they already have one, because there are also many single elderly people who are............................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, the families are getting smaller, people are living further apart and there are more single people. We certainly take that into account. I have asked for an opinion from the National Hospital Services Council on how the organisation of palliative care can be improved and what needs to be changed. Palliative care can also happen in a rest home or at home. I've done that a lot, but it's not always easy. Emergency workers sometimes don't see it anymore in the middle of the night to carry on. For me, however, palliative care does not have to be tied to a hospital. I always assume the patient's question, and if you ask some people from the general public, the majority will answer that they want to die at home. That's right. At home can also be the rest home or the care center where people have been staying for a long time, but most people want to die at home. I've been very committed to that for a long time. A lot of pilot projects were needed. We have therefore rightly launched them at the outset. Now I've said there's plenty of pilot projects. After all, they run for one or two years and then we have to implement the best practices or what is possible. That is why we need to do this at first, while everything else requires more study work and even more scientific support. There is also a methodology in calls for pilot projects and so on. In this respect, we are still on the timing as it was on the slide last year. Then we will roll out this new approach on the basis of the results of projects that have been positively evaluated. Mrs Dedry said that we should not wait a year, but neither should we. Around the pilot projects shorter delivery time there has already been a session with the persons involved and further sessions are planned. Besides, if they ask us or experience difficulties, they will be convened back. I think it is important that there should always be a representative of the seven pilot projects in such a way that the exercise is made global. Because what's a problem in one case may have been solved with the others. If it is a problem for everyone, then we have to solve it together. Mr Vercammen, you say that there will be a lot of energy going to divide the cake. That is, the amount spent on the low variable care. Yes, but as you can see, support work has been done there and is not just a lump sum as I have heard here. That has happened with a real methodology and that exercise will only have to be done seriously once. Now it is also very difficult to figure out what the amount is and what is being done with it. There's a lot of encryption, too. There's a lot of energy in there, too. Hospital funding is currently a klutz that is actually known by very few people. It is and remains a small world. Wherever I go, I always meet the same people. As far as the cost per pathology is concerned, the study for the BFM detachment is ongoing. We need a good methodology there to ensure that, if new techniques are developed in the future, we can adapt them easily. Medicine is a science and science evolves, so that shouldn't be too rigid. The competence must be there to take that responsibility, as well as the will to organise care as efficiently as possible for the patient. As far as the pay for quality is concerned, you're talking about Kermit, the name refers to The Muppet Show, which says enough. This is a system for new implants where you say that registration takes twice as long as the procedure itself. That can't be the intention. That is why we are going to try to protect ourselves. There was a question about administrative simplification of quick wins. The FPS has already put forward a number of proposals to delete a number of tables in FINHOSTA as these contain data that have already been questioned elsewhere. The deletion of tables also means less registration, which is also a good thing. In addition, staff data will be integrated into a new table 13.......................................................................................................................................................................................... There too, the only-once principle is introduced. This new table allows calculations for both the BFM and the BFM revision, which also means simplification. For the minimum hospital data, the MZG, all details are no longer requested, but only the data that are significant and can make a difference. Mr Thiéry, of course, the progress is notable. It's a huge job. I'm not afraid to work, but in this case, this work is really huge. We can see in the countries around us that this reform takes several years, as in Denmark, where it took twenty years to complete it. Of course, we still have the ambition to work faster. Yes, there's information about federated entities. Are there any differences in approach? In Flanders, Minister Vandeurzen has already presented his plan for the care landscape. Minister Vandeurzen has drawn up a plan for the care landscape that contains a lot of synergies when you put it next to ours. I assume he's also read our plan. So that's a good thing. I have not yet seen such a plan from the Walloon and Brussels fellow Members. Nevertheless, we are working with all the relevant ministers, including the Minister of the German-speaking Community, through the Inter-Ministerial Conference which is still very active. However, it is only what is finished or almost finished which comes at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The technical working groups set up between our administrations are very active and there is also the input of our cabinet. For health care, in Brussels there are four competent ministers. In Wallonia, there are also several hospitals, depending on whether they are university hospitals or not. The subquotas are the responsibility of Mr. Demotte, while the medical students are the responsibility of Mr. Marcourt, without any problem. In the German-speaking Community, it is Minister Antoniadis who is competent. So we're sometimes eight or nine to talk to each other. It had to be organised, but so far there have been no major differences of opinion. If there are too many candidates for pilot projects, those who have made a pilot project proposal can do so, but they will not benefit from the €40,000 for coordination because it is only intended for those who have been admitted. As for the types of problems, for example, for the "Pay for Performance", we had asked for proposals from the actors on the ground, but they did not reach a consensus. We must therefore rethink the issue and try to eliminate the delays. It happens. Mrs Fonck, as far as the 1978 Royal Decree is concerned, the consultation takes place with all the actors. Bilateral contacts have already been made with some but not all of them. For this reason, we have chosen to proceed in this way. As far as freedom of association is concerned, I have always said that it is better to do bottom-up. There are two important things: for basic care, it is proximity, it is necessary for patients, and for specialized care, it is concentration, always in the interest of the patient. For the networks, we will not wait for the study of the KCE, we will go faster. And if the KCE wants to add elements, we can do it. You asked me if I could give you an extra budget for Pay for Quality. So far, I have always refused to make savings in hospital budgets because it was known that some hospitals had been in difficulty due to underfunding for years. So I didn't want to save on hospitals. I hope to be able to maintain this course in the coming months. We need to reinvest. When we were talking in the slide about a reorientation, you say the same thing as me. There is a need for a reinvestment of under-utilised resources, for a reallocation of resources and staff within hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u28	(...) of what has happened over the last two years. I wouldn't want us to continue...(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u29	So I misunderstood you. As you say, savings have been made on maternity stays. I have injected EUR 40 000 per year per approved project for the coordination of each pilot project. It must be said that this concerns 7 projects. The two must not be confused (the 18 million savings and the 40 000 euros per project). We wanted to reintroduce the Pay for Performance step by step and without additional recording if possible. We start with a limited budget so we don't put hospitals in trouble. You saw that it was in the slides. For pilot projects, applications were requested for home care before 16 September. We have received them and are evaluating them. Only a week ago we received them. It was Friday 16th, and we're 20th.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u30	Was it just about home care, there were no others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u31	For integrated care, it will be with the Communities. It's already started.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u32	There won't be any more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u33	No, no additional calls are scheduled. You said that you and many others are ready to deal with reforms on the ground. I think that's good news, I told you. Mr Mathot, it is true that we need more and more resources. This requires savings and reinvestment all the time. This is what we do when we draw up the budget, but also in the medico-mutualist agreement, the dento-mutualist agreement and the logopedo-mutualist agreement, and all methods of consultation. That is what we are doing in the budget of INAMI itself. The growth rate is slightly higher than 1 per cent, while the Planning Office forecast was 2.2 per cent. You see that savings must be made and at the same time reinvestments must be made all the time. Otherwise, we can't do it. As far as workers' unions are concerned, I am really surprised that you said that, because I meet them several times a month, at least once a month. You have to ask them. I know it was in your memo, but we had a lot of consultation with their representatives. You asked if it was a lump-sum system. My co-worker will explain why the calculation method we have chosen is not a lump sum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u34	Madam President, in the case of low-variable care, we are supposed to evolve towards one uniform, lump sum per patient pathology group. We will only do that for the low variable care. The first phase is to pool all fees into one amount. Of course, this can only be done without risk of patient selection if we find that in practice the variability between patients is small. That is why we have decided the following. The KCE has already identified the pathology groups for which that could be done. Before we introduce that uniform amount, we will ask clinical experts - doctors who work daily with those patients - to check whether those patient groups are indeed homogeneous, in the sense that there can be no easy selection whereby one tries to push the more risky patients out of the group. That is what we want to see. A further phase for the low variable care is therefore that the funding of the medicines and of the BFM component is integrated into that amount. At present we cannot do that, because in the BFM, which is a global budget that hospitals receive, the study must first be carried out in order to determine which part of the BFM is contributed by each patient. We call this the unraveling or détricotage of the BFM, where we divide the entire BFM and check what is brought by each patient. Once that is known, the amount per patient can be awarded for the low variable care. At that time, there is a uniform amount per patient. For medium variable care, we intend to continue to work with a closed budget system at national level. That budget is divided between all hospitals in proportion to their number of recordings and the weight of those recordings. Here too, we must look at how this division works. It is important that we should also check, if the patient is given responsible care, how much that care costs. In this way, the distribution of the budget (through the keys) can be aligned with the responsible costs for the patient. If for all patients the ratio between the cost of the patient and its yield is similar, there is also no risk that certain patients will be selected. If some more complex patients cost more, but the hospital also gets more money, there is no risk that the hospital will avoid those heavy patients. That is why we must try, in essence, to unravel the BFM and, on the other hand, to identify the cost of responsible care per patient in the study. Of course, medicine continues to evolve. Madam Secretary of State mentioned this himself. It is therefore also important that we set up such a methodology to allow the recalculations to run every few years to see whether funding is still in line with the responsible costs. Hence the design of this study, but also the establishment of a methodology to replicate that study in the future. For the high-variable care, the two elements apply: the cost of patients and funding should be taken into account. It's not like we don't know what high-variable care is yet. That concept is defined, but in order to know how it is translated into a specific financing, we will first see how it is done abroad. We try to learn from these foreign experiences to apply it in the Belgian context, but it is not that we do not know what the concept is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. I understand the problem of technicality. On the other hand, we will ultimately have the same big concern as today. Hospitals receive the day price. At present, we are 18 months between time T and information on the actual day price. One of the challenges will be to avoid the same pitfall, as such a time lag represents a Chinese puzzle and, a posteriori, hospital budgets are called catastrophic. So, in wanting to change everything, let us ensure that the elements are practical and effective and that we are not faced with the same problem as the present one and this monstrous time lag. This does not allow hospitals to work effectively on the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u36	Madam Secretary, I would like to ask another informative question, because there is also evolution in it. In fact, you say that awards are made according to pathology. For example, for a particular pathology, EUR 100 is awarded, because statistics show that this pathology can be treated on average for EUR 100. The hospitals may be looking for more efficiency and developing a practice where this treatment can be for 90 euros, for example through better organisation. In the long run, this means that the same treatment can be carried out for EUR 10 less. Well, I wonder what you will do with that EUR 10. Do you reward hospitals for their efficient work, by allowing them to retain this EUR 10 for a few years, for example for investments in quality improvement? Or will you decide that the award for all hospitals will be raised to 90 euros? I fear that in the latter case you will no longer be given incentives to optimize. Maybe I'm not expressing myself clearly enough, but I'm very upset about that. In fact, I notice such things today. In Belgium, there are hospitals that do what you want by themselves, because they are well-run and look ahead to their approach. However, these hospitals are being punished today, because their budget funds will fall in the long term. That's gonna put a huge brake on it. That is why I would like to ask you how you will avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u37	I'm just reading what was written. I would like to know what study is being requested. How do you design this study on high variability care? When you can't define them, I'm afraid. We don't have a calculation, we don't have a price, we don't have a budget and we don't know what we're going to. This is worrying for all hospitals. What are they going to do and what will be imposed on them tomorrow in relation to pilot projects? Not everything can be transposed overnight either. For example, the statutes differ from hospital to hospital. There are so many variables. Is there a buffer period? How do we imagine these periods?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u38	Mrs Fonck is concerned about the timing and the revisions. For the low variable care, the price the hospital receives is fixed at the time of admission and does not change anymore. The prices will be fixed, as will the medical benefits rates now. That will be known in advance, that will not change anymore. For the medium variable care we continue to work with the system of a national budget divided among all hospitals. There one can only work with activity figures from the past, but as recently as possible. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u39	We need to shorten the periods. In the last three years, the deadline was less than six months. Today we are 18 months old. It's untenable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u40	One works with shorter periods and more recent data. Moreover, in addition to the calculation of the responsible beds, there is still the system of budget revision financial resources. The FPS is currently in the process of reviewing 2011-2012. That's five years after date. That period should also be shorter. For a number of elements, we also wish to include in the legislation that they are no longer subject to revision but are simply financed in the current year, on the basis of data that does not change afterwards, so that the uncertainty for hospitals is reduced anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u41	Even if it's to the detriment of hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u42	Nee. Niet "to the detriment".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u43	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u44	Nee, dat is niet at the expense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u46	No, if it is clear to everyone that we are funding on the basis of certain criteria, then they are the same for everyone. That is always the principle, but we must, of course, try to keep the decalage as short as possible, otherwise there will be uncertainty for years, because the revision will only come seven years after the date. I come to Mrs De Coninck's next question. If a hospital manages to work more efficiently, what do we do with it? If you know what you are going to get on funding, it will remain an important incentive for every hospital to try to work at lower costs. So that incentive remains present. That is why, in setting up the methodology, we said that every few years the government will have to recalculate the costs of care. If an individual hospital works at lower costs, then the average will gradually fall and in time, after a number of years, the price paid by the government may also fall, because certain hospitals have proven that it can be at lower costs. In the interim period the hospital thus always has the advantage of working at lower costs, but still not getting a lower price. That's the incentive that's in it. After a number of years, the price will fall. The hospitals that have not yet adapted will therefore be forced to adapt, but in this sense a hospital always has the incentive to try to work more efficiently. Of course, we must continue to ensure that quality criteria do not lead to abuses and that there are no quality problems. The incentive lies in this: in the recalculation of funding, the government will always have to slow down for a number of years, because sufficient data must first be available from hospitals that do it differently. It is not intended that, if a hospital proves today that it can be cheaper, it will be imposed on the whole sector tomorrow. A transitional period has therefore always been provided for, so that hospitals continue to have the incentive to work more efficiently and to benefit from it for a number of years. As far as the high variable care is concerned, we know what high variable care is. The knowledge centre has statistically aligned it, but the question now is how exactly is it going to be translated into funding. We see that there is a different way of dealing with this in different countries. Some take a particular patient group as an angle of view. Certain specific pathologies may be associated with a lot of variability. One then goes to finance the care that the patient needs differently. Others take a different approach: if very complex care is needed, then it is very specifically situated within certain hospital services, for example, a paediatric intensive care. This service will then be financed differently. One assumes a service approach or a patient approach or a care programme approach. So we first look at how other countries are dealing with it, how they are translating the high variability into their financing system, and then see how we can apply it in the Belgian context. It is clear that high variable care can occur in most hospitals. It is certainly not a monopoly of university hospitals that was underlying also part of the demand. That is certainly not the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u47	I'm going on. Mr. Mathot, you asked for the social factor. They have obviously taken this into account in the financing of hospitals, as always. There are factors related to the hospital, but also to the population that is there to treat. There are also differences in patients when it concerns someone who does not speak the language. With the crisis of migrants, we financed intercultural negotiators in hospitals, but also translators. We have helped in this area, because it is very difficult for nurses to make themselves understood. What they explain to patients is not understandable by patients, and this can cause more anxiety and nervousness. We have obviously taken this into account. It's necessary. The situation is not the same in all families, in all patients, or in all hospitals. I come to the ten million for internship teachers in non-university hospitals. This is part of the medical-mutualist agreement. They are under negotiation to determine how they will share these means. The 20 million you're talking about are for the B7B budget. We said we were looking for savings, but we asked the National Commission for Health Care Facilities for a proposal. We expect to dispose of it in a few days or weeks. Mrs Dedry, there is an audit going on for the general practitioners' guards because of course we want to know how they can work with hospitals and where there are still blind spots or problems. As far as overconsumption is concerned, an enforcement policy plan has been drawn up. I went over that in one of the slides. You must not convince me that a great deal of work and effort is needed to carry out such a pilot project. That's huge. It is still possible to prepare it so well, but I think there is something happening on the ground every day. That's right, that's life as it is, with all its surprises and course the route. Like I said, there will certainly be no waiting to discuss. It has already been discussed, and it will be. Mr Janssens, as regards quality as a parameter in the financing of hospitals, the following. What criteria do quality indicators have to be met in order to be able to use them to measure quality in funding? Well, they have to be indicators that are very relevant to the patient. What is the health benefit that the patient has after the procedure? How does he or she feel about it? What is the added value of independence, quality of life and so on? It must also be relevant to society. A common denominator must be found there. What matters to one is not always for the other. They must be identifiable by the care providers in such a way that they can also be easily registered. I have already mentioned that we would prefer to work through existing registrations. There's literature about that. We've been to a study day, too. There is a lot going on here. Internationally, too, matters are beginning to live very much. It is also important that indicators are not manipulatable. If not, we are even further away from home. What we do not want is for these indicators to give rise to risk selection. This would be a perverse effect because, where appropriate, relatively good patients would be selected to perform certain interventions. However, patients with high co-morbidity would no longer be selected, as the risk that indicators would be poorly affected by such co-morbidity would be too great. We must certainly avoid that. After all, that would not be good for the patients. Of course, the Communities also have a role to play in this. Flanders is fully committed to the accreditation of hospitals. We will establish a number of additional federal quality indicators. Again, we will use the existing registrations as much as possible on the basis of the only-once rule. For the concrete indicators, I prefer the outcome indicators, which effectively measure the condition of the patient after the procedure or after the hospitalization, as mentioned at the ICHOM conference in London, an idea that has also emerged in the debate. In this respect, we will also have to examine which indicators we maintain and ensure that we do not select too many per intervention. A working party is working on that. I asked if he could comment on the most common aspects that we have selected. We do not do it for very rare cases, because the group with which we measure is far too small. I have asked for concrete proposals, after which we will have to make our own choice in consultation with those who have to make the registration. We are making progress in this area too. It is important that we are not alone at international level. Mrs. Van Camp, you said that nursing standards are also important. I did not mention them explicitly, because since the sixth state reform, nursing standards have to be decided in cooperation with the Communities. The basic bestaffin should be guaranteed. That's what we're qualified to do. But the standards will certainly depend on the care gravity. Depends on how many nurses one has to use. If the number of beds is reduced, what will have to be done and I do not yet know how much more nurses per bed will indeed be able to have. Then perhaps the standards should also be reviewed, in cooperation with the Communities. I have been saying for some time now that we have reached the limit. The number of nurses per patient is very low with us. This means that the workload is enormous for them. We have seen this in previous years with the MAHA study. Most of the savings have been made on nursing staff. The costs were reduced there in particular, which led us to the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u49	Yeah, the states have to make sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u50	The recognition standards are a state competence. Organic legislation is a federal jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u51	As far as BFM is concerned, there is now an underfunding. We need to know how the BFM is being spent, but in order to keep the budget, hospitals must prove that they also respect the standards for staffing. There can be no lasting saving on this. As far as referral is concerned, I can agree that it may be useful to know the information on this subject, but that would be an additional indicator for registration. It would require registration of the referral or referral of patients and movements between hospitals. I'd like to ask all that, but that does mean an extra registration. For us, the quality of care for the patient is especially important, but certainly also the comfort for the patient. We will not impose difficult or unnecessary movements on the patient. There are, of course, financial elements, but the patient's comfort prevails. We always respect the patient's free choice. The basic care is best taken as close as possible to the patient, while the patient can be referred to for specialized care. However, some people prefer a specific hospital, which is not the nearest hospital. However, we are not opposed to the patient's free choice. We will, of course, take the distance into account, but if the patient chooses to go to a further hospital, the patient can do so. The patient must consult with those in whom he trusts and the patient's free choice is essential for us. I have already said a lot about the Pay for Performance. We need to make a trajectory. The working group selects a first set of viable quality indicators and sets the standards for them from year to year. These standards can therefore be changed over the next few years, if necessary. Before linking funding directly to the indicators, we give the necessary information to the hospitals, so that they can make simulations of their situation and possibly adjust it. Even if it is only 1% or 2% of their budget, that is in line with their profit margin. This must be handled with care. Hospitals can then choose to publish their results on a website, as is already happening for Flanders. After a certain period the scores will be announced anyway. Only then will funding be effectively linked to the scores for the selected indicators. So we will be able to adjust the route in full, before the hospitals see its effect in their funding. Once the ball is rolling, there's no keeping it. In short, we are very careful and we do not want to cause any more hospitals problems. Mrs De Coster, academic hospitals have their own role and will retain it. There are seven of them in our country alongside many other hospitals. Fortunately, there are only seven university hospitals and tertiary, quaternary hospitals. Their tasks remain unchanged and priorities will not be given to university hospitals, which are too few to do so. They also provide training. It's still important for our students and interns. With regard to the overnumber of beds, I said in the presentation of the slides that the data related to the data for 2013. Knowing what has happened in the meantime, the green curve has decreased further. The difference between the number of approved and justified beds increases. In this regard, it is important to intervene and this continues, as the period of hospitalization is shorter and there is also the increasing hospitalization of stay. In this case, you know that the green curve will decrease further. The redesign does not affect hospitals, but rather targets the number of advisory committees within administrations. On the federal side, there are over 100 advisory committees. In this area, we can also make simplifications. Indeed, it is the same people who sit there with other caps. This is not negative, of course, because these people are involved on the ground, but simplifications can take place at this level. The deadline for home care pilot projects was September 16, 2016. We received them. There must be consultation with the Communities, since home care can take place at home but also involves nursing homes. It can also be a revalidation. I come, Mrs Gerkens, to the remuneration of the fees. There are three yards that exist separately but still influence each other. The financing of the hospitals, the Royal Decree 78 and the re-evaluation of the nomenclature, where we do know that we had to do nothing with the latter, otherwise no one would be sitting at the table. After all, we are also facing very difficult negotiations. I think that Mr Mathot here has set an unfortunate example of what a nephrologist receives compared to someone else. I think we should bear in mind that one needs more infrastructure and technicality than the other. Mrs Gerkens, you asked what would happen after September 28th. For me, this is a starting point for consultation with all the actors. At the same time, they will be presented with the approach plan and the organizational concept note as part of Royal Order 78. I am sure we will have a lot of answers and comments from them, and a lot of work will have to be done to achieve an approach plan. There will be a lot to do later because, for each trade, a royal decree will have to be made. As far as emergency areas are concerned, they differ depending on whether emergency care or other matters are concerned. The working group is responsible for working on the organisation of different levels, such as care, emergency care, night work or weekends. It's a great job we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u52	Madam President, with regard to different categories of care or assistance, it is clear that networks have a different dimension than an intervention zone of a given ambulance. This will be even different from the area served by a general practitioner's ward and even different from the area covered by an integrated care project... that comes on the map different layers of organizational forms. Of course, it will be an exercise to align and match them. That will never be identical and there will always be differences and overlaps. It cannot be the practice that every form of care and assistance is aligned in an identical way and on the same geographical basis. That is totally unrealistic and unworkable. In view of the differences that exist or with the particularities, and if we take a map and we put a number of cellophane sheets which each time define a particular area, we will be able to detect a number of natural forms of cooperation. But it will be an exercise of coordination; we will have to consider how we can coordinate it in an optimal way. It is certainly also true that when it comes to non-planable care, there will certainly be forms of cooperation across the different components for a particular area in a different way than when it comes to reference care to be provided in a network location.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u53	Do any of you want to add an item or question? [[No]] In this case, we will now close our exchanges. We will meet again to take stock when a new stage of realization is reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u54	Madam President, we'll send you the PowerPoint.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic489x.u55	Thank you. We will make it available for the extranet of the committee.
