ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 10 April 2016 the Royal Decree on the use of remotely piloted aircraft in Belgian airspace was published. This decree provides, inter alia, for the training of telepilots. A list of examiners was therefore drawn up in accordance with Articles 37(1) and 103 of the said Decree. It provides that the Minister or his delegate, the Director General, shall designate, from among the holders of a valid RPAS flight instructor rating, RPAS examiners on the basis of the experience, qualifications and personality of the instructor, including his or her morality, integrity, objectivity and collaboration with the DGTA. Minister, how was this list developed? Is there not a conflict of interest in the fact that it is mainly drone vendors who are at the same time instructors and inspectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have left a blank page. The Royal Decree of 10 April 2016 on the use of remotely piloted aircraft in Belgian airspace provides, in Article 103 thereof, that the Minister or his representative, the Director General, may automatically grant to persons who have professional experience the authorisation to perform the functions of RPAS examiner for a temporary period of one year from the date of entry into force of the decision. The aim of this opportunity is to allow the launch of a new sector in our country. In order to reach as many pilots as possible in this sector, information was disseminated through various channels indicating that RPAS pilots could be designated as examiners after sending a resume and cover letter. Based on an estimate of the workload, DGTA decided to appoint 13 reviewers. The situation will be reassessed at the end of the year. The following criteria have been established for the establishment of the list: - the examiner experience for another category of aircraft, e.g. aircraft, helicopter or balloon; - experience as an instructor, an examiner in aeromodelism; - technical knowledge and experience in the field of RPAS; - the personality of the candidate; - the linguistic role. Based on these criteria, the Director General of DGTA compiled a list of 13 examiners. One of the criteria for being designated as an examiner is to have sufficient experience and technical knowledge. Since we are dealing with a new aviation industry, only a very small group of pilots have sufficient experience and knowledge to qualify as an examiner. Therefore, it is clear that RPAS device manufacturers get the best rating for this criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u3	The question is simple: is there not a risk of conflict of interest at some point in practice that will be put in place? Minister, you announced an evaluation for me by the end of 2016. I want you to pay particular attention to this dimension. I'm not accusing anyone. It seems to me that when the roles are well determined, it facilitates the clarity of each other's functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u4	The question has arisen. That is why we decided to evaluate after a year. I said we left a blank page; we had to start from something! At the end of the year, the whole situation will be reassessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u5	Mr Minister, if I may, I would like to give a brief explanation on line 204. In the meantime, you've been a little messed up, but as a minister, you're still relatively new. The port of Ghent is very difficult to reach by public transport. However, there has been a railway line there for many years, namely line 204, which crosses the port zone. Except there's no train on that track. With various actors such as the representatives of the port company of Ghent, the city administration, representatives of the companies that are established there and their trade unions, we are working, across party boundaries, for the deployment of line 204 to Zelzate. Not only would Zelzate be accessible in this way, but one would also have public transport in one of the most important economic poles of East Flanders, namely the port of Ghent. I would also like to remind you that the port of Ghent has the greatest added value of all ports in Belgium. If we make the calculation per area and per water supply, the port has the greatest added value, i.e. it generates a lot of employment. Hence my questions, which I submitted a while ago. In the meantime, I have already attended the presentation of the new transport plan, which was organized provincially. There we were given a little hope that the study would be reviewed and there was the possibility that line 204 would be re-used. In my original text I asked if all plans for line 204 were deleted. After the presentation of the transport plan, I hope that this is not the case and that we are still thinking of opening it. For that, I'd like to hear your confirmation. In the Flemish railway strategy, the construction of railway line 204 was included as one of the 51 priority projects. Has there been any consultation with the Flemish colleagues on this issue? After all, from Flanders, the railway line is also definitely intended to be used again. The decision also has implications for the development of the suburban network of Ghent. Can you give us an update? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u6	We are talking about this beautiful city of Ghent and its seaport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u7	This is the beautiful city of Ghent! Previously, I'd like to welcome you to the Ghent Festivals. It is going to be magnificent and perhaps you can determine the situation with your own eyes, Minister. Unfortunately, I have not heard Mrs Temmerman's question, but it is of course very similar; we are defending the same interests in that regard. All of Ghent draws some railway line 204 to the port on a line, because the potential for Ghent and a whole stretch of that railway line is enormous. It's the economic hotspot of East Flanders and even a whole lot out there. The job creation, which the government is strongly committed to, also has its impact on the port of Ghent. There are a lot of vacancies open and companies are making a lot of efforts to attract workers there. From a number of companies, shuttle buses are put in, even up to Geraardsbergen, which immediately shows how difficult it is to get employees up to those jobs. Hence the need for better public transport and passenger transport by rail to Ghent Zeehaven to get the workers there at work. Your predecessor has made a potential analysis based on figures from 2009, yet another analysis, because in the past there were many more potentials. I've been discussing the potential for a while. However, after that analysis, even though line 204 is included in the investment plan relating to the roll-out of ECS, there is no mention of the railway line in the new transport plan for December 2017. To what extent has this been discussed between the federal government and the Regions? To what extent are local stakeholders, in particular the city of Ghent, involved in the preparation of the new transport plan? What are the future plans for railroad 204? Does that line remain in the investment plan? Will it eventually roll out of ETCS, which will be useful in any case, including for freight transport, but what is the leverage to make passenger transport possible later? Is that gonna be included in the investment plan? If so, when? Are there any studies being made, new potential calculations? What exactly is the situation with regard to yet another analysis of the usefulness of that line? What impact does that have on the suburban network in Ghent? After the GEN-Brussels, plans were also made for a suburban network in Ghent and Antwerp. Line 204 could be an essential part of that suburban network, hence the question of how it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u8	The reopening of railway line 204 between Ghent and Zelzate was examined by the SNCB Group in 2009 in the context of Article 43 of SNCB's current management contract. The opening of line 204 for passenger trains requires major investments in advance. Meanwhile, an investment cell was set up to assess the various proposed investment projects. The regions are represented in that investment cell. Possible improvements to the offer from December 2017 in and around Ghent are currently under consideration and will be part of the new transport plan, which will apply in December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u9	Mr Minister, frankly, your answer is much less than what was said to me in the provincial committee. There it was said that a new study would be made. I have in my desk, through my past, a meter of studies from that cell. You mention one here; Mr Dedecker also referred to it, namely the 2009 study. There have already been many more. Business cluster VEGO, together with the port company and the city of Ghent, has made a potential study, which showed that there is a great potential. Once again, at that provincial meeting, it was said, firstly, that a new study would be made and, secondly, that an effective assessment would be made of whether the necessary investments would be made in the near future. I am a little shocked by your answer, because you are talking about rail transport in and around Ghent. Then you're talking about the GEN, but not specifically about line 204. I strongly advocate the realisation of the project. As Mr Dedecker also said, the question transcends party boundaries. This is the main economic cluster of East Flanders, with, once again, the greatest added value in employment for the whole of Flanders, when one looks at the transport by water there. So it is really unimaginable that today there is no such thing as public transport. Minister, you are talking about important investments, but the line is there. We had a train there two or three years ago with a number of people from Zelzate and all the villages next to it, together with the port company, with passengers. The only problem was getting on and off, because there are no platforms there. On the other hand, the construction of a new line is quite different from the installation of a new line. Again, the potential is very great there. The government wants to focus on job creation and should do so especially for the low-skilled. There's just a lot of low-skilled jobs there. Low-skilled workers don't usually have cars. If they have to get to work, they have a problem in the port of Ghent today. We have already tried to remedy this with the city with what we call Max Mobile. Mr Dedecker also referred to this. There are companies that organise transport in consultation with the city itself. That cannot be the intention, however. So I would urge you to look at the file again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I was listening to that answer with a lot of attention and I was actually a little shocked that it had already been done. I expected a little more, simply because it is not so obvious to look at the project as part of the 2017 transport plan. The 2017 Transport Plan, which will apply in one and a half years' time, is a plan for the running of trains on existing railway lines that are adequately equipped with all technical facilities, including platforms and safety features. In the context of a new transport plan, it is only logical to examine the suburban network around Ghent. If we want to include the existing line 204 in the suburban network, which would be highly recommended, then we must, of course, start doing so on time, because that requires investment. Those aren't big investments. Investing in a platform, a boarding place, is just a small matter. However, it is necessary to start a stop and roll out the necessary safety requirements in time to make a train run in a comfortable way. Mrs Temmerman has already illustrated it, it is technically possible to have a train there. That's not a problem. However, if you want a train to run there in a comfortable and sufficiently fast way, so that it also offers a competitive advantage over the car, you have to use a light rail, one of the modern diesels that also run on the line to Eeklo and Ronse. They will speed up and increase faster, but of course they will also have to invest in the right safety equipment, which must be installed in time. I therefore find it rather brief that you will look at this in the context of the transport plan. I hope that we will be able to work effectively in good time to make full use of the potential that exists there. There have already been enough studies on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u11	You'll like this subject, minister. As you know, the Brussels-Luxembourg-Strasbourg line is one of the strategic European corridors. On the margins of the inauguration of the Saint-Gothard tunnel, you announced that you would reactivate the record of the pendulum train to ensure this link on line 162. The Pendolino project was to be discussed at the next Gäichel meeting between the Luxembourg and Belgian governments on Monday 4 July. In addition, another meeting would be planned in autumn between the Swiss, Belgian, Luxembourg and French ministers and the operators of these four countries in order to analyse the feasibility of relaunching the project. I know you've been attached to this case for a long time. I therefore hope that all this will lead to concrete commitments. Minister, do you confirm that this 4th of July, the day of the Feast of American Independence, you were in Luxembourg? Have you been able to discuss this topic? What new element, apart from you, did it lead to a reactivation of the file, when its abandonment by the Swiss Railways had buried the project? Despite the delay, the modernization of Axis 3, lines 161 and 162, is already under way. Can the technical constraints to operate a pendulum train be met without having to repeat what has already been done? Finally, without prejudice to the requirement for commercial speed specific to this type of service, it would seem to me absolutely essential to provide for at least stops in Namur, Libramont and Arlon. What is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u12	My fellow Member, the reactivation of the dossier is linked to my willingness, shared by my Swiss and Luxembourg colleagues, to make joint progress to improve rail transport on this strategic axis between Brussels and Zurich. I confirm that we were well present at the Gäichel meeting and that we agreed, together with our Luxembourg colleagues, to make progress in the analysis of the dossier by updating it. With regard to the meetings with my Swiss, French and Luxembourg counterparts, I can confirm the intention to meet us in autumn 2016. As for the operation of pendulum trains on lines 161 and 162, it requires, according to Infrabel, adaptations to the work carried out in the context of the modernization of Axis 3. Indeed, some curves should be adapted to achieve a speed greater than 130 km/h. In addition, catenary gauge checks should be carried out to assess their compatibility with the circulation of pendulum trains. A modification of the catenaries may therefore be necessary. Given the liberalisation of international passenger transport, the DSF will be based on a business case. In the past, SNCB has stated that a balance should be struck between revenue from improved commercial speed throughout the route and a policy of stoppages favourable to Wallonia, including a stop in Namur and a stop in the province of Luxembourg. I have planned to discuss this issue with my counterparts in the countries crossed by the route.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u13	Minister, I welcome the positive contacts you have with your counterparts. If we are to consider making adjustments to work that has already been undertaken on lines 161 and 162, I hope that it is in order to finally move the pendulum's file forward. I understand that with regard to the judgments I mentioned in my last question, you were considering only one in the province of Luxembourg. I take note of this and will certainly come back to it in the fall, when you have had the consultations announced with your counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the management of bicycle points is, for the time being, allocated to social economy companies through a SNCB market call. This contract terminates in August 2016. Unfortunately, the next market call is to drastically reduce the services and financing of bicycle points. In the current contract call for the operation of bicycle points for 2016-2020, compensation and level of service would be reduced by 30 %. The objective of this austerity measure is only to reduce expenditure for SNCB: there is no prospect, no ambition, no political reflection, no long-term vision. In addition, a three-input financing system is imposed by the SNCB: payment of benefits by the SNCB, public subsidies (municipal, provincial, regional and/or federal complementary), revenues generated by other services offered (repairs, bicycle rentals). This system is also unsuitable for the Walloon context: although it is in sharp increase, the modal share of cycling in Wallonia (1.3%) is still low, which implies a difficulty of having, as in Flanders (13.9%), important revenues generated by other services. Operators find themselves in financial fragility, competing for government subsidies. Consequently, only operators with public support can consider serenely fulfilling the role of cycling point. In addition, the bicycle point sector is a very young sector. The oldest workshops are just five years old and the youngest are a few months old. In this reality, the slightest change in funding can have very important consequences. In the long term, this economy is a miscalculation. A proactive policy would have a positive effect: the activity of bicycle points induces a modal shift towards the bike and thus allows, in the long term, to invest less in infrastructure (the cost of a parking space varies from 6 000 euros to 25 000 euros), to use sparingly the space available around the stations (1.5 m2 for a bicycle space compared to 25 m2 for a car). Minister, given the importance you bring to co-modality and door-to-door mobility, is the SNCB not wrong in its new contract call? Is SNCB still in a position to work with operators and public authorities to correct the shooting? What do you intend to do to ensure the sustainability of bike points, especially in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u15	Mr Cheron, SNCB informs me that, for budgetary reasons, it has in fact been decided to change its method of financing bicycle points during the next market call in September, through which it will now distinguish three types of bicycle points: categories A, B and C. Walloon bicycle points are unfortunately in category B: more than 2,500 passengers per day for less than 1,000 bicycle sites. This will result in a decrease in the services requested at bicycle points and, therefore, in the resources allocated by SNCB. The market call also loses its social clause. SNCB's objective is to model markets at the station level. The ambition of this procedure remains to stimulate the use of bicycles by rail passengers through high-level customer service and an improvement in the quality of bicycle depots. The procurement procedure is under way. All offers were received. SNCB will take the necessary steps within the legal framework to ensure continuity of service to customers in the coming years. With regard to the intermodality platform, the various actors will be consulted in order to re-examine the issue of the financing of bicycle points. Regions will also be involved in finding complementary sources of funding, such as municipalities, because intermodality is everyone's business. It is up to each level of power to act within the framework given to it by the laws of institutional reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u16	Minister, thank you for reminding us of the laws and institutional reforms, which are obviously not alien to us. First of all, I take note that the call for contracts took place under the conditions I have described, but I am not very happy about this, because I think that under-utilization will continue. You have heard the figures which show a great difference between the modal part of the bike in Flanders and Wallonia. Ms Temmerman often intervenes in this regard by rightly complaining about several shortcomings on the Flemish side, but this is even more true on the Walloon side. Finally, minister, we sometimes talk about co-modality or intermodality. One day we will have to choose a unique term, because when we call things wrong, we add to the misery of the world – in this case, that of bicycles. I hope that the relations between the different levels of power – regions, municipalities, provinces – will instill a real dynamic policy, especially in Wallonia. I know you're a federal minister, so I'll do what it takes to ask questions at the Walloon level, too, so that we can have more dynamism. I do not want us to be obliged to see once again, in some time, that Wallonia is still in decline in the use of bicycles in connection with other public transport. It is you who speak of a mobility chain, and the strength of a chain is always measured in its weakest link.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u17	Minister, in June the BIVV published the results of a behavioral study. Basically, Belgians are far too tolerant when it comes to driving under the influence of alcohol. That's not surprising. An earlier European study, carried out in 17 European countries, gave an identical picture: 18% of Belgians indicated that they had driven under the influence in the month in which the study was carried out. Only France is doing 22 percent worse. By comparison, in Finland it is 1%, in Sweden it is 2%, in Denmark it is 5% and in the Netherlands it is 6%. So that's 18 percent with us. I shouldn't tell you. We have far too many road deaths. There too we are at the top of Europe and we are the poor pupil of the class: 25% of fatal accidents are due to alcohol. On the one hand, we must avoid this by increasing the chances of taking action and higher fines, and on the other hand, I think that we must also do something about the mentality. A change in mentality is one of the most difficult issues. However, the many studies show that we have a mentality problem and that we are far too tolerant with the use of alcohol and driving. Mr President, what specific plans do you have to reduce the tolerance of alcohol driving to the Belgian driver? In your policy statement, you clearly say that you are not in favour of the driving licence with points. However, studies have shown that the driver's licence with points combined with increasing the cost of transport can certainly improve road safety. Your Flemish colleague is also in favour of this. Recently, he said that the arguments against the driving licence with points one after one were dropped: "The road is open for a driving licence with points. Will you also take the necessary steps, Minister? The BIVV pleads for a court obliged alcohol lock for hard learners. I have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject with fellow Members of this House. Will you follow the recommendation of the BIVV? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, alcohol is and remains a problem if we know that alcohol is involved in one in four fatal road accidents. As I indicated in my policy statement, I want to focus on more alcohol controls. This will be done in consultation with my fellow Members, the ministers Jan Jambon and Koen Geens. I would also like to work on introducing a zero tolerance for inexperienced drivers, legally translated into 0.2 promille, so that during the first three years after obtaining their driving licence they can hardly consume alcohol if they want to take the wheel. I would add that the modalities of this new measure still need to be negotiated with the partners. Finally, my administration is preparing a bill to adapt the rules on the alcohol lock so that hard learners and people with high levels of promillage will be required by the judge to install an alcohol lock in their vehicle. The BIVV is indeed in favour of this. I believe that this useful instrument, which has served for decades in the United States and Sweden, is being used far too little in Belgium. First of all, I would like to return to a complete and accurate database on Mercury's revocation together with the Justice Department. For years, the police had little or no idea of a possible revocation during inspections on the ground, which is nevertheless crucial in order to pursue a meaningful control policy. Mobility and Justice IT services are making every effort to link the necessary data to enable the Mercury database to be operational in the short term. There is clearly no point in using the driving licence with points if the dates available to the police are not complete and à jour. Once Mercury turns properly, we can continue to think about the opportunity of a point system. However, as I mentioned in my policy statement, there are also perverse side effects associated with the driving licence with points such as people who drive without a driving licence or exchange points among themselves. So I'm studying before I start. I'm not against the point license. We're going to start a study. But in England, 40% of the people who have been removed from the point permit continue to ride. There is therefore an immediate effect and then a certain habituation takes place. So the study will associate the SPF, FOD and BIVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At least I'm glad you're saying that you're not against the driving licence with points. I'm sure I'd like to wait for that study. You're saying that in England it's been proven that people whose license was taken are still driving. I can assure you that today there are also people in Belgium whose driving licence was taken and still driving. This isn't exactly an argument. Studies have been carried out in France, among others, which have shown that road safety has really been greatly increased after the introduction of the driving licence with points. At least I'm glad you're willing to look at this. You also claim to be working on a bill relating to the alcohol lock. We have already tabled a legislative proposal in this area. This can be considered together if necessary. What I don't like is zero tolerance for inexperienced drivers. It has actually been proven that alcohol consumption is the most common among drivers aged 35 to 50 and not so much among inexperienced drivers. I do not think that we should culpabilize young people. This is also related to tolerance. I believe that young people are less tolerant of DUI. It is particularly the 35 to 50-year group that needs to be addressed. I will also question your colleague Mr Jambon and Nothing about the alcohol controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u20	Minister, in February of this year I asked your predecessor, Mrs Galant, about the possible installation of a train station in Haasrode. I then received a meaningless answer about a study on the technical possibilities and feasibility of a stop in Haasrode. On a timing, the then minister remained in the dark. I have no idea now whether the study is going or not. I couldn't really make that out of the answer either. Minister, this question has been around much longer than it is today. For years, several agencies have been working to implement a train station in Haasrode to alleviate traffic accidents in and around Leuven. Not only the city of Leuven, but also the companies of the industrial zone Haasrode and the university of UC Leuven-Limburg (UCLL) are asking for a stop in Haasrode. On 18 May 2016, I attended the presentation of the new transport plan 2017 for Flemish Brabant. That was a very interesting presentation. Unfortunately, I had to conclude that none of the studies mentioned were about a possible stopping point in Haasrode. In any case, the study was not cited as a priority. Doesn't that study run or not? We really couldn't decide that from the Minister's answer at the time. Are you aware of the pressing demand of the city of Leuven, the companies of Haasrode and the university of applied sciences to create a stop point? If the study is ongoing, what stage is she at now? What is happening in relation to the 2017 transport plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u21	I am indeed aware of the question from Leuven. SNCB is carrying out a study in the context of its participation in the discussions of the Regionet Leuven project. The company lets me know that if, on the basis of the study, it decided to open a stop in Haasrode, it would be impossible for it to achieve this by December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u22	I understand that, of course. You understand that after all these years, we want to put a rush on it. If the opening is not possible by 2017, I do not hear from you what the timing is. Since it's been promised for so many years, I'm surprised that apparently no one can give me a timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u23	Madam Chair, Minister, on June 8, 2016, MP Wouter Raskin made quite serious remarks in our committee. According to him, "the section where the Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse accident took place is not equipped with a TBL1+ system due to a public procurement problem on which there were suspicions of fraud". Indeed, he explained to us that a Flemish company (Elgeka) would obtain virtually all the security contracts of Tuc Rail, a subsidiary of Infrabel, for the construction sites in the province of Liège. According to him, the company would systematically brade prices, which would later prove to be outdated. The award of the work would have been made in 2014, but never the work! Of course, Infrabel reacted, guaranteeing that the section was equipped. For Infrabel, the market in question is more concerned with the concentration of signal booths, not the TBL1+ specifically. However, other sources argue that this market would indeed have been extended to the installation of the TBL1+ system. I would add that, at one of the committee meetings on safety, we had an explanation from an Infrabel delegate, who told us that this section was considered an independent section. Minister, this issue is, to say the least, confusing. Serious charges were laid by Mr. Raskin. At this point, I have not heard a clear answer. Do you have any evidence to corroborate what our colleague has said? Has the market, which concerned the concentration of cabs, been extended to the installation of the TBL1+? In practical terms, have any disputes been brought before the courts? How has the situation evolved since Tuc Rail was reinstated into Infrabel's lead? Finally, would an audit of Infrabel's and its subsidiaries' procurement procedures not be useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u24	Mr Minister, at the beginning of 2015 I questioned your predecessor about the number of freight trains on the Belgian rail network equipped with the TBL1+ braking system. According to its reply at the time, only 40% of the total number of freight locomotives authorised to use the Belgian rail network was equipped with the TBL1+ system. The problem seemed to be mainly with foreign rail transport operators. SNCB Logistics had already equipped a large part of its fleet with an additional safety system, initially TBL1+. I have three specific questions on this. What is the situation at the moment? How much of the total number of freight trains on the Belgian rail network is equipped with TBL1+ or an equivalent safety system? How much of the number of freight trains operated by SNCB Logistics staff is equipped with TBL1+ or an equivalent safety system? How much of the number of foreign freight trains using the Belgian rail network is equipped with TBL1+ or an equivalent safety system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u25	Infrabel informs us that the signal B222 passed by the train driver, while it was red, is in the section of full track Hermalle-sous-Huy/Amay and is not yet equipped with TBL1+. The signal's TBL1+ equipment was planned as part of a contract awarded in 2014 after a public auction. This contract, which was awarded by Infrabel to Elgeka, was notified on 24 June 2015 and the work began on 7 September 2015. Following the identification of the number of deficiencies borne by Elgeka that call into question the proper execution of the works, Infrabel unilaterally decided on 4 March 2016 to break the contract. The market in question provided for the installation of an electronic actuator signal called "programmable logic station" (PLP) in view of the concentration of cabs and the preparation of the ETCS installation. In this electronic setting, the installation of the TBL1+ requires only a minimal extra effort and was provided for in the specifications in question. The order in question did indeed give rise to the submission of appeals to the Council of State. In this context, the Council of State rejected, inter alia, an appeal and considered that Infrabel's decision to award the contract to Elgeka was well founded and well justified. Prior to the existence of Infrabel, Tuc Rail depended on the unitary SNCB. Since 2005, Infrabel has become a majority shareholder and Tuc Rail has fully subscribed to Infrabel's strategy. In 2013, a new agreement was concluded between the two companies to regulate the governance and modalities of their cooperation. Numerous internal and external audits, including those of the Court of Auditors, are already carried out regularly on the activities of Tuc Rail and Infrabel in the context of public procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u26	Madam President, I take note of the Minister's and Infrabel's communication. I cannot dispute them, but I see a mismatch between Mr. Raskin's fairly serious accusations and the facts transmitted. I note that the dispute has been referred to the Council of State. On the other hand, I will not fail to keep an eye on the development of the case. I understand that general audits are requested and that the Court of Auditors carries out them at our request. This was noted with respect to management contracts. In this case, however, Mr. Raskin's accusations about the award of contracts exclusively to a single firm in the same province are particularly serious. That's not nothing! I will come back with other questions about other files related to Tuc Rail in the same province and concerning the same firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u27	With all due respect, I have heard an answer to Mr Cheron's question and not so much to my specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u29	I will put the question again, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u30	Mr Minister, it is not the first time I have asked a question about the Leuven route, and it will certainly not be the last time. Last time, on 15 June, we talked about a fair spread and that is where the shoe is wringing. In the Haacht region, we have always had 70% of falling traffic. On average, over the last ten years, this has been 82 %. No one's ever complained about that before. Everyone always assumes that, in addition to employment and economic interests, the benefits of an airport include the costs of aircraft noise. Everyone has to contribute to these costs and that has not been the case since Leuven Straightaway. Far too much traffic is now concentrated over one region, while on some routes there is virtually no longer flown. We now also have quite a part of the rising traffic. I also know that the wind direction and a number of other technical elements play a part in this. We're not going to take that into account, because we know that. Only now, the route Leuven directly caused more noise due to the rising planes that came along. She makes sure the rest days are gone and we swallow both descending and rising wrong on that same route. The fairness, the justice and the fair distribution are no longer there, and that is what I am talking about. Let me show you the monitoring of the aircraft noise in the month of February in two places, Bertem and Tildonk. In the month of February this year, as you can see here, there are two recorded noise nuisances in Bertem. Below you can see the noise nuisance at the measuring point in Tildonk. That's right. I don't have to say anything about that anymore. That's about every day and about decent noise pollution. Mr Minister, I would like to make it very clear that I am not in favour of bringing everything back to Leuven West; I am only in favour of a fair distribution. I am asking this question so soon after the previous one because I know that you have seen the mayors of the region in the meantime and received a number of action committees. I was wondering if you have any idea what action you're going to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u31	(...) 2014 has ordered existing routes. The court ruled that Belgocontrol's June 2015 report did not prove that the new procedure 07 Straight ahead at environmental level was illegal or wrong. Finally, I should like to inform you that I am currently consulting all the parties involved in the problem with a view to finding a fair solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u32	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I know you're seeing the parties. I just wanted to know if you had any idea what direction it was heading for, but I will come back to it immediately after the recess, because we had a good conversation last time, but now your answer seems meaningless to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u33	Madam President, is Mr Flahaux coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u34	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u35	Madam President, Minister, the procedure for forgetting a subscription is a little more than a year, but we can often read complaints or receive complaints about aberrations about its application. It happened on 16 June that a 13-year-old boy who had apparently forgotten his subscription was thrown off the train by the conductor. I have always said in this committee, including to your predecessor, that the procedure seems difficult to me. Anyone who forgets his subscription must pay a fine of 8 euros if he or she does not have enough money to pay a ticket and the fine. Those who carry enough money must pay the price of the ticket plus a 7 euro fine and the administrative costs can be recovered afterwards. I think that's way too complicated. Minister, the new procedure for forgetting a subscription is now in force for a year. Is that procedure being evaluated? Has the evaluation been planned or even completed? Can you tell us any initial conclusions and any changes that may be made? How many complaints has SNCB already received about the new procedure for forgetting a subscription? If the allegations are correct, what blame will the conductor get for kicking off a child who has forgotten his subscription?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u36	Colleagues, if a passenger is not in possession of a ticket or is not valid, the train attendant must offer to sell him a ticket at the "on board" fare. In case of refusal, he will require an identity document in order to draw up a finding of irregularity on document C170. If the traveller refuses any regularization and provides an identity document, the train attendant must call upon the Security Operation Center in Securail to request an intervention from them or from the Railway Police, with a view to excluding the passenger from the train. In the presence of a minor, this exclusion may only take place at a station where a staff member of the SNCB will be able to take charge of it. SNCB informs me that the procedure is currently being evaluated. It is premature to give information on this. SNCB does not have statistical data on the number of customers responding to forgetting a subscription. In the case of a landing at a train station without staff, a 13-year-old child, it appears that the versions of both parties, the mother's and the train attendant's versions are totally contradictory. The attendant denied having encountered any problem on that train that day. On 21 June, the escort was interviewed by the Railway Police and the investigation is ongoing. In general, we can argue that, if such a situation arises and is proven, a sanction will be applied in addition to personal follow-up and coaching of the employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will await the further development of that particular incident. In my view, it is a good thing that there is a general directive, especially with regard to minors, to apply a different procedure. I am surprised that no statistical data are available. In the past, I have received figures for a similar question. I will insist once again on obtaining these figures by means of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u38	Mr Minister, at last October's rail strikes, Infrabel had the opportunity to act immediately against persons occupying tracks or signal houses, by means of a unilateral petition filed by Infrabel in all judicial districts. The railway manager was also upheld by our courts in all cases......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what your predecessor mentioned in her answer to my written question. That assertive and proactive attitude of Infrabel was a first good step, but apparently no periodic penalty payments were imposed at that time. As regards sanctions imposed by the company itself, your predecessor's reply states: "I quote... that the Minister is not aware of whether Infrabel's staff have been punished for this. In 2015, no SNCB staff member was punished for running tracks. I have the following questions today, Minister. Firstly, did SNCB and Infrabel impose disciplinary sanctions after the autumn 2015 and the first semester 2016 rail strikes? If so, can you indicate how many and what sanctions were taken per company? Secondly, has there been a ruling in the appeal proceedings that were initiated following the court rulings following the October 2015 rail strikes? If so, which one? If not, what is the status and timing in these files? Thirdly, for all the strikes that have already taken place this year, can you give an overview of the unilateral petitions submitted by Infrabel and in what cases effective periodic penalty payments have been imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u39	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, as regards the imposition of disciplinary sanctions, for 2015, with the exception of 18 May 2015, the strikes were requested within the set deadline. For 18 May 2015, in which it was a non-approved strike in Charleroi's traction workshop, 23 servants were deducted 30 minutes' pay. There was no disciplinary action. For 2016 there were unrecognised strikes on 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 May, and 1, 2 and 3 June 2016. For the servants concerned, the disciplinary sanctions were strict exhortation and a premium deduction of 12.50 euros. I am not yet aware of an appeal ruling concerning the strike action on 9 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I don't know if the figures you gave relate to Infrabel and SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u41	For the traction workshop, it is about the SNCB. Otherwise, I'm not sure. In any case, the sanctions were imposed by HR Rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u42	I'll read the answer again quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u43	Minister, last year the SNCB Board of Directors decided to close the booths in a number of stations. These were counters where employees were inactive for more than 60% of their working time. SNCB considered that it would be better to use its staff elsewhere to strengthen the service to its customers, but it could not be the intention to leave passengers to their fate as ticket machines sometimes do not work. Mr Minister, we have asked your predecessor more than once with a number of fellow Members to call upon SNCB to investigate alternatives to the example of bpost. The creation of postal points has proved to be a success. We are therefore in favour of changing to train stations. Newspaper shops or local shops, whether at the station or not, should be able to sell train tickets. I am also thinking of shopping concessions in non-stop stations operated by private operators, where tickets are sold and at the same time the waiting room and toilet room is open to the public. Such train points in station buildings without counters would create a certain dynamic and prevent leaving, desolate spaces. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask for an update today. Do you follow the idea of evolving to train stations? Has this piste been discussed with SNCB? What's the status? In what way and in what time do you see this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u44	According to SNCB, its customers are increasingly using the other channels available, in addition to the traditional ticket counters, to purchase their tickets. These are modern sales channels in which SNCB has invested in recent years, such as the website and the vending machines in the stations available around the clock. Sales via vending machines represent more than 45% of sales today, compared with less than 10% two years ago, including those equipped with counters. SNCB has decided to take account of this change in purchasing behaviour in order to define a distribution strategy that makes better use of human resources where they are more useful to customers. SNCB points out that the closure of a point of contact has no impact on the train supply. Travellers are in no way disadvantaged in their travel needs. Customers can access information channels such as website, mobile devices, Twitter and Facebook at any time to be helped. Outside the opening hours of the window, travellers can also contact the SNCB customer service for additional information, seven days at seven and from 7:00 to 21:30. The use of vending machines is very intuitive. Customers who are unfamiliar with them can reach SNCB's customer service by telephone to get assistance. The customer service even has the ability to perform the transaction on the vending machine remotely for the customer. If a vending machine is exceptionally not available, the on-board fare when the ticket is purchased on the train will not apply. The development of an additional direct sales channel is still under consideration in the context of the development of the new management contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The last sentence in particular is an answer to my question about the possibility of allowing third parties, newspaper shops, local shops and self-employed persons to sell SNCB's products. You have said that this possibility is still being examined in the context of the new management contracts. I hope it's in there, because I think it's an en-en-story. It's a good thing those ticket machines are reaching more and more people. You mentioned the figure of 45% share in sales compared to 10 % only two years ago. That's a positive evolution. In my view, it would also be a good idea for a local shop or self-employed person to be allowed to sell certain products, as is now the case with bpost. I hope it's in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u46	Minister, a hearing on self-driving cars was held in the Chamber in May 2015. The conclusion was that nothing should be adapted to the current legislation on insurance and liability. However, legislation still provides that a driver must be in control of his vehicle at all times. This will need to be adapted and the Road Code may also need to be encrypted. Is it now clear, Minister, what changes to the Road Code would be necessary to allow the introduction of self-driving cars on our road network? If so, can you explain those changes and give a timing for the realisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u47	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, this exercise must take place at international level for me. Belgium has a tradition of active involvement in international bodies, such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. It is in that forum that the rules on vehicle control are laid down, which will then be transposed into national legislation. My administration is also active in the bodies of the European Commission in this area. We are following an incremental approach that allows driving assistance to continue, with the self-driving cars as the final goal. In this sense, the new interpretation of Article 8.5 of the Vienna Convention should also be understood. As a result, all current driving assistance systems comply with the regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u49	Madam President, a question from Mrs Cassart-Maillux, which was not attached, also provides some additional information to this question and my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u50	Mr Minister, yesterday, with the launch of the campaign of the BIVV, there was plenty of news that the use of mobile phones behind the wheel is causing a great distraction. The risk of an accident would be three to four times higher. For texting, it's even 23 times bigger. According to the BIVV, 32 % of drivers would not pick up the phone hands-free while driving. More than half of the drivers read text messages behind the wheel, i.e. 80 % of the 20s, 72 % of the 30s, 64 % of the 40s. Especially in the younger generations one can speak of a mentality problem or the habit of permanently consulting the smartphone. According to traffic law, not hand-free calling behind the wheel is a second-degree violation. It will be punished by an immediate collection of 110 euros. Your predecessor announced at the time that she was prepared to discuss an increase in the fine in order to actually give sufficient deterrent effect. She also wanted to work on a heavier sentence in the event of a recidivism. How do you evaluate the use of your mobile phone behind the wheel? How can you adjust the behaviour of mobile drivers? What actions do you plan to take to achieve this? Do you intend to adjust the punishment, whether or not it is repeated? Have you had any contact with the Minister of the Interior on the enforcement of the use of mobile phones behind the wheel? The feeling is that there can still be a bit of a tooth in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u51	Mr Minister, the problem of mobile phones behind the wheel is very topical. Only yesterday the new campaign of the BIVV was launched. Last weekend, your Flemish colleague made a plea to block the mobile signal in trucks, so that truck drivers simply can't use their mobile phones behind the wheel anymore. A remarkable verdict was recently passed in my area. A woman who was driving her car with cell phone between shoulder and ear but with both hands at the wheel, was acquitted, even though she, according to the court, violated Article 8.3 of the Road Code: "Every driver must be able to steer, carry out all the necessary driving movements and constantly have his vehicle in hand." Minister, what is your position on the use of the mobile phone behind the wheel? Are you considering a different approach? If so, in what sense? In your opinion, is it a violation of the law when driving the car with the mobile phone between shoulder and ear but with both hands on the steering wheel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u52	It is sufficient to look around in traffic to see the results of the attitude study of the BIVV confirmed. There is no doubt that such behaviour does not improve road safety. Calling by hand behind the wheel currently costs 110 euros. If one has to appear before a court, the fine may amount to EUR 1 500 and the driving licence may be withdrawn. I believe that further sensitisation will have more impact than the increase in fines. I'm having a hard time expressing my opinion today about blocking the cell phone signal in vehicles. The various technologies for this need to be evaluated first. For example, do we want to go so far as to prevent even passengers from using their mobile phones? As far as I'm concerned, we should, above all, strive for a change of behavior. But I'm not against proper vehicle technologies. The private initiative can also contribute to this. As insurance companies now provide for lower premiums for vehicles equipped with a data event recorder, appropriate premiums could also be charged for vehicles equipped with a mobile phone blocking system. I have not been in contact with my colleague responsible for Home Affairs for the seizure of mobile phones. Such projects should also be discussed with the Justice Department. It is true that Article 8.4 of the Road Code concerns only the use of portable telephones held in hand. A driver holding his mobile phone between head and shoulder may be convicted on the basis of Article 8.3 of the Road Code if it can be proven that he was not in sufficient control of his vehicle. For this, it is important that the verbalist correctly describes the circumstances of the offence in the minutes. I don't think that's why it's necessary to change the Road Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u53	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u54	Madam Chair, Minister, in May 2015, I asked your predecessor a written question about the type and quantity of weeds used to maintain the tracks, docks and other properties of Infrabel and SNCB. A fundamental fact was missing in the Minister's reply at the time, namely the quantity data used by Infrabel's subcontractors and subsidiaries. We spoke again about this issue in a resolution by our N-VA colleagues on the use of glyphosate in SNCB. Indeed, they are at the forefront in this area, in any case in the case of SNCB. As far as the federal government is concerned, this is another matter! But I'm going back to the subject we're dealing with. If the main tracks are processed by means of the so-called "weeding train", the processing of ancillary tracks (beams, industrial lines, approaches, other surfaces) would be carried out by specialized firms. It would also seem that Infrabel has no idea of the products used and in what quantities, which is quite surprising. In her response, Ms.Galant meant that "since 2015, Infrabel has been asking companies what products are used and in what quantities. Infrabel does not yet have the first responses to its inquiry. The first analysis (including comparison of the products used) will be carried out in mid-2015." We're in mid-2016. It therefore seems to me urgent to receive an answer to these questions. Therefore, Minister, what amounts of herbicide are used by these firms for the treatment of the affected areas? What products are used by potential subcontractors? In other words, what are the results of this analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to refer you to the elements of the reply communicated in September 2015 in the context of Written Question No 439. Firms carrying out weed removal in the areas concerned are specialized firms with the required authorisations and have been selected by public procurement. The table I'm going to give you shows the quantities of products under the trade names used in 2015, during the two weeding campaigns. These are product-specific data used by firms on Infrabel's land. According to the latter, the designated firms do not rely on subcontracting. I'll send you a hard copy of the table showing the results of the analysis requested. Moreover, according to Infrabel, the conclusions for the complete network are as follows: the selective use of the products is equivalent to 34% of selective herbicides and 66% of herbicides. The use by mode of action of the products is equivalent to 99.5% foliar products, to 0.5% anti-germinative soil herbicides. In 2015, there were 6.4 tonnes of active substances used for a total area of 2,000 hectares. These figures relate to Infrabel's exclusive uses for the two 2015 campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers and the written supplements that I will, of course, analyze with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u57	Minister, the carriage of bicycles on international trains is currently hampered by the absence of an obligation on international railway companies to take undisassembled bicycles. Thus, Thalys, which is a private company, ICEs and most TGVs make it impossible to combine train and bike for long distances. The conventional international trains, which allowed this, are being phased out, such as Brussels-Bâle since 3 April last. As a result, cyclists no longer have other choices than the car or the plane to go on holiday with their bike, which does not contribute to a sustainable European mobility policy, you will agree. The European Commission has just launched a process to revise its Regulation 1371/2007 on the rights of rail passengers and the obligations of the companies carrying them. This is a unique opportunity to improve things for bike owners, wheelchairs and other specific couplings. Minister, what could you do at your level to strengthen train and bike intermodality from a European point of view? Will you support European cycling associations in the development of this new regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u58	My colleague, Article 5 of Regulation 1371/2007 on the rights and obligations of rail passengers already provides that rail undertakings shall allow passengers to take their bicycles on the train - if necessary, against payment - provided that it is easy to handle, does not harm specific rail services and that the rolling stock permits it. Indeed, bicycles can already be boarded on international trains, with or without vans, within the limits of their technical capabilities. Therefore, high-speed train operators require a partial dismantling and packaging of the bicycle to be converted into hand baggage as there is no provision for a van in the composition of these trains. The Commission is planning to revise the above regulation in the medium term, but discussions have not yet begun. When they begin, the officers of my administration will participate. It is also possible that cycling associations may be consulted. In preparation for the revision of the Regulation, Steer Davies Gleave, appointed by the European Commission, consulted stakeholders on the implementation of Regulation 1371/2007 in all Member States. The consultation is part of a broader study which will help the Commission to better understand the current situation, to assess the problems of protecting the rights and obligations of rail users in the European Union and to obtain a better view of possible areas of action. The Belgian enforcement authority participated in the investigation conducted by Steer Davies Gleave in order to defend the interests of Belgian travellers. In addition, interest groups such as the European Passenger Federation also had the opportunity to be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can only invite you and encourage you, in the context of the revision of Regulation 1371/2007, to ensure that our country is particularly at the forefront of the fight for the combination of international trains and bicycles. This is a positive and dynamic objective for the European people. Europe is a bit like cycling: when you don't pedal, you fall!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u60	Madam President, Minister, every once in a while we read in the newspapers that the government is thinking of the appointment of a new CEO, the succession of members of the Executive Board and the appointment of new members of the Management Board. If I may believe those newspapers, affinity with government parties and the right language role seem to be more important than skill. I would add immediately that this was exactly the same in the past, as I mentioned in the written record of my question. However, we are now in 2016. The company was founded in 1926 and perhaps it is time to name it in a different way, not as in Flanders, where it is apparently written on the body of the administrator-general. Suppose the most skilled would be a Chinese, an Indian, an American, a Congolese or someone of another nationality, what are the consequences? Does it stick to the premise that only a Belgian CEO in the past could be a Luxembourger chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB and Infrabel? If not, if one opts for an American or another nationality, what legislation should be amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u61	Madam President, the law of 21 March 1991 does not impose a nationality requirement on members of the Management Board. The exclusion of citizens of other States forming part of the European Economic Area does not seem to be permitted, given the principle of the free movement of services. In view of the combination of Article 162quater, 8th paragraph, of the Law of 21 March 1991 and Chapter 2, Article 4 of the Staff Regulations, this principle is expressly confirmed for the delegate director who must be Belgian or citizen of another State which is part of the European Economic Area. SNCB is subject to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1967 on the use of languages in administrative matters. This legislation imposes on SNCB the use of French or Dutch, internally and in relations with local or regional services. The members of the Management Board, including the delegate director, should therefore be able to speak Dutch or French for the proper functioning of SNCB. Moreover, the law of 21 March 1991 imposes a number of complementarities. First, the chairman of the board of directors is of a linguistic role other than that of the managing director delegated to SNCB, according to Article 162a (5) of the Law of 21 March 1991. Secondly, the delegate director of SNCB belongs to a language role other than that to which the delegated director of Infrabel belongs, according to Article 162a (1) of the Law of 21 March 1991. Finally, I do not agree with your analysis of the concerns of this government. You may be confusing a number of things. I do remember the feuilleton of the summer of 2013 when the press reported daily contact between Mr Vande Lanotte and a new candidate. Then the articles stretched over 12 months to find a delegated director, but for us only in a month or a month and a half, and they were limited to perhaps five pages in the daily. I have the impression that there is much more written under this government about increasing railway productivity in order to prepare them for the future, than about the issue of linguistic hearing. Once again, what is really at stake in the coming years is to prepare SNCB for the challenge that we will have to face in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I didn't collect all the articles, but I remember a lot of them. That is why I have also made it clear in the written record of my question that it was indeed the case in the past. It is precisely my concern to avoid what we knew then. That is why I believe that there should be a different way of dealing with these companies. I admit the grif, that wasn't the happiest period. The guardian minister and the other members of the government came with their own candidate every time, and vetos were made against one and the other. People were then appointed at Belgocontrol, at BAC, and in other public companies, in order to strike a balance. You referred to those articles according to which the candidates for Infrabel and SNCB must be of different language roles. Is that even from this time of year? What if we have two qualified candidates, one Dutch-speaking and the other French-speaking, or even a third, an American, then we have to choose the most competent? Let me give you an example. We went to visit Telenet with this committee. That's not a public company, but there's the CEO, someone from Australia or New Zealand. They did let that person drink Belgian beer; apparently that was one of the requirements. Eventually, the vision with which that person comes here counts, and according to which he tries to make a company effective. For me, this is more important than the linguistic balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u63	Mr Minister, there has been a great deal to do in recent times about the security of our airports. The security measures already in place were reinforced after the attacks of 22 March. What is not much attention to is what is still going on after the last security checks. In those areas, where the departure gates are located, there are many shops and restaurants where things can be obtained that could be used as a weapon by a person with bad intentions. In the restaurants, for example, you can have a knife without a problem. If you report to the inspection of the hand luggage with a similar knife, the security staff would confiscate it. That's a little weird, because a little bit further can do that than without a problem. Firstly, are there certain rules on safety for shops, restaurants and the airport itself with regard to the provision or sale of certain items? If so, what are the rules? In what way are they controlled? Have any infringements been detected in recent years? If so, can you provide us with an overview of the infringements? Secondly, if there are no regulations, how can that be explained? Thirdly, do you agree with me that it is necessary to examine whether there is a potential safety risk, whether it should be addressed and, if necessary, whether it should be regulated? If so, what steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u64	The rules on the presence of prohibited articles in the security restricted area of an airport are set out in Regulation No. 3008, Commission Implementing Regulation No. 2015/1998 and Implementing Decision No. C2015/805. In Implementing Regulation No. 2015/1998 is a list of prohibited articles. In connection with the example of a knife available in the restaurants, that knife will not meet the conditions to be considered a prohibited object. Compliance with European regulations is monitored through inspections and audits by the FPS Mobility and Transport, Directorate-General for Aviation, Aviation Security Service. No infringements have been detected in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u65	I thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u66	Don't worry, minister, I'm not going to ask you about the future of the RSP. We do it regularly and we will do it again. But here I wanted to talk to you about the possible creation, under secure conditions of course, of an express bike access between, for example, the Walloon Brabant, from which I came, and which is a very beautiful region, and Brussels the beautiful one. This is a claim of cycling associations, which Ecolo also supports. This was not followed by Infrabel during the implementation of the RER project, which dates back a few years. In Flanders, however, many such infrastructures have emerged and there are many positive points. Indeed, railway tracks, as we know, are direct, with very little gradient, and separated from road traffic. Today, the RER construction site, in many places on line 161 and of course on line 124, is at a standstill, we hope, temporarily, and brings this issue up to date. Indeed, some cyclists recently took advantage of the last rail strikes to risk using the RER service roads between La Hulpe and Groenendael. As you know, we've talked a lot about it on social media and in the press. There's a video that's been circulating. Their verdict: asphalted sections of good quality - at the price at which they were paid, that is to say to me -, fast, separated from traffic, which can, for a term to be fixed, constitute an appreciable alternative route in relation to the steeply rolling and insecure Brabançon roads. Mr Minister, in addition to the risky and inadequate nature of such an undertaking in the present state of the construction site, and in the absence of security, consideration should be given to the possibility of giving itself the means to secure this route in order to make it effective. You told us: in Walloon Brabant, you are not going to give us an end date for the work of the RER. Too many ministers risked it. You have the necessary caution and you have been able to examine all these elements in recent years. On the other hand, you have advanced on a medium-term date. I've chosen the date of 2024. It's a long way already. As in any case, this date concerns the medium term, it seems to me that the track of rational use of these existing routes for cyclists in the direction of Brussels seems interesting, provided of course that the problems of security are solved. It is clear that this is the point, whether it is the federal level, and in this case the infrastructure manager, and indeed the federal state, but also the communes, the province of Walloon Brabant and possibly the Walloon Region. What do you think are the technical obstacles to this project? In connection with the regions concerned, what infrastructure could be envisaged to ensure the safety of cyclists and at what cost? What legal conditions would make it possible to exploit this space, and I hope so, in connection with other levels of power and for the benefit of users?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u67	Mr Minister, in addition to what has been said by my colleague, the question that has been asked by the GRACQ is: can we use the RER plate, which, I would remind you, is desperately waiting for the laying of the tracks, as a cycle path? Let us be clear, I do not want us to take advantage of this question to change the project. Of course, we always demand that the Walloon side of the RER be made four-lane fast. Incessant delays have lasted too long and are unacceptable. The RER plate is made to accommodate trains and not bicycles. So out of the question of making it a luxury Ravel! Contrary to my colleague, without taking a position on the possible relevance of opening this specific infrastructure to bicycles, particularly with regard to safety, which, I would remind you, is an absolute requirement, this question nevertheless highlights a problem which we believe is interesting. While in fact, initially, Infrabel recalled the illegality of cycling on the RER plate, the inviolability of the rail network and the dangers of trespassing, it nevertheless proved to be open to the question of cycle paths in the vicinity of the railways, with obviously - and this must be one of the priorities - safety improvements. Mr Minister, I think it is typically this kind of proposal that should be discussed within the new intermodality platform in order to perhaps find a solution within this platform that would certainly improve daily mobility by facilitating the safe practice of cycling. This type of infrastructure already exists, particularly in Flanders. There is therefore no reason not to discuss it seriously and to bring all stakeholders together around a proactive sustainable mobility project. Do you therefore intend, Mr Minister, to put this topic on the agenda of the next meetings of the intermodality platform so that you can discuss it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u68	Madam President, Minister, my two fellow Members have raised the issue. I had asked a written question, but I wanted to join them orally. We in the committee also unanimously adopted a resolution on the improvement of bicycle connections to and from stations. Meanwhile, in a newspaper article dated 7 July 2016, I read that you are asking questions about the temporary introduction of a better bicycle connection here. The Brussels Government actually said yesterday that it wants to continue negotiating the dossier. My questions are in line with the questions put by the other Members. Firstly, if it turns out that it would take a few more years to effectively implement the GEN route on that route, can it not be looked at temporarily and forward-lookingly in order to build a bicycle connection in addition to that railway bed? Secondly, when negotiating the new management agreements, can it not be added that we in Heist-op-den-Berg are engaged in the construction of a bicycle ostrade, the SNCB for the opening of the stations and Infrabel for the trace of bicycle connections?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the question arises and it has been asked of us, but that is what is called a "false good idea". First of all, for a safety issue. Security is non-negotiable. It is essential to provide a minimum distance between a possible runway and in-service lanes throughout the route and to provide a protection system suitable for all types of passers-by. The aim is to avoid the aspiration effect at the time of train passage. There is a real risk, with dramatic consequences that we know and must therefore be avoided. In addition, many works will have to take place there, although the completion of the GEN works will take several years to complete. It is therefore not efficient to place safety barriers and to remove them again a little later because work needs to be done. Co-existence between cyclists and construction activities along a railway line in service is therefore not possible for obvious safety reasons. There are areas to be operated on a sustainable basis, such as disused track plates or land adjacent to the railway tracks. Moreover, Infrabel and the SNCB Group have shown their strong will, both on the Flemish and Walloon sides, to develop bicycle networks which are now numerous and important in length. It is more appropriate for local and regional authorities, in consultation with Infrabel, to consider making new spaces available for cyclists to develop bike paths. As part of the management contracts, Infrabel was asked to list all these locations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u70	Minister, we are not going to have a debate here on accountability and security. Of course, there are things in this area that are not negotiable. And if it's not negotiable, it must also be terribly objectivable. It seems to me that the most important thing is to have a serious study to determine from which point and according to which device, security is considered to be acquired. I can hear the arguments about proximity. Yes, I do suspect that the proximity of a high-speed train, the aspiration phenomenon, are objectivable things. But there are also technical and budgetary responses that need to be made. I understand the point of view of Infrabel, Infrastructure Manager. It's totally understandable. He's doing his job. And what we've been through this weekend shows that we don't have to deal with security. On the other hand, it is the technical answers that interest me with regard to an investment that was made in the vicinity and within the framework of the intermodality platform, because that was the objective, as my colleague Crusnière pointed out. And under what conditions, given the years that separate us from the actual implementation of these infrastructures that have been made, paid but unused? I will return to the task of studying whether the safety risk is zero and what technical answers should be provided, even if they are provisional. I believe that the Regions, the provinces and the municipalities concerned could be called upon, around this platform, to find these technical modalities and therefore budgetary responses while preserving security. I would point out, however, that mobility between Walloon Brabant and Brussels through soft modes is also a useful way of doing this modal shift, and if there is a demand from cycling associations, I do not believe that this is without a contingency in relation to safety. I will therefore allow myself to return to you with this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u71	I thank the minister for his response. As I said in my question, safety is not a problem, it must indeed be the first priority. However, I reiterate my suggestion to discuss it, as my colleague has just proposed, in this intermodal platform. I know that at the level of the Walloon Brabant province, a member of Parliament has already made proposals and suggestions for meetings. I think that it is really within this platform that this reflection must be carried out, with security in mind and priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u72	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Safety is, of course, a priority. However, I also expected to get more information on the technical data, such as how many metres on the railways themselves are specifically needed for a train at that speed. The answer to that must be the starting point. A decision can then be taken on the basis of that technical analysis. I miss that in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u73	Question No 12826, by Mr Geerts, Question No 12964, by Mr Geerts. Van den Bergh and Question No 12997 by Mr. Van Hecke is transformed into written questions with the agreement of all the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u74	Mr Minister, there is now the legal possibility for King's prosecutors to offer training as an alternative to immediate perceptions, mainly used in the case of speeding. Royal decrees are apparently being prepared to oversee this activity in the future. What is the term of these royal decrees? Can you confirm that the current actors in the field can be integrated into future procedures, even if the royal decrees mentioned above are not finalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u75	Dear colleague, in accordance with article 65, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Road Traffic Police, as amended by the Law of 9 March 2014, training may be offered instead of payment for immediate collection. This provision therefore provides that a legal framework must be drawn up to harmonize at the level of all prosecutors a system already existing in the framework of the pre-trial probation. The legal provision and the implementing measures resulting from it will therefore be valid for the whole territory and for all immediate perceptions for which alternative training may be proposed. This will have consequences for the system of monitoring immediate perceptions. However, this procedure is currently being optimized in the Cross Border case. As this reform has not yet been completed, it is premature to implement new training regulations as an alternative to the fine. But when we discuss operational implementation, it seems logical that the current players will be able to integrate into the new system, under the conditions set by future regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u76	Minister, thank you. I feel that you are in favour of these alternatives. I will remain attentive to the finalisation and will also question the Minister of Justice, since, also involved in the Cross Border issue, he is also concerned with the implementation of this interesting alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u77	Madam President, this question has already come a long way. She was submitted to the Minister of the Interior, then referred to Mr Borsus and now she ended up here. It's about transporting hunting and sports weapons through the airport. As a result of the attacks and the terrorist threat, the management of Brussels Airport, BIAC, in consultation with the federal police and the Cabinets of the Interior and Foreign Affairs decided to impose an embargo on the transport of sports and hunting weapons. Since the spring period of deer takes place in July and August, the hunting season for hunters, this means that many hunters cannot leave abroad for hunting. In addition, the Olympic Games will take place in Rio de Janeiro in August. One of the disciplines is clay shooting, for which a fellow countryman has already placed himself. Do you have any idea when the embargo on the transport of hunting and sporting weapons will be lifted? Is a procedure being developed to ensure that hunting and sporting weapons can be transported safely and in a controlled manner through airports? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no embargo on the transport of hunting and sporting weapons to and from regional airports. A new procedure was introduced at Brussels Airport to ensure that such weapons were transported safely. I'll get back to you in a minute. First of all, I would like to mention that certain airlines refuse to transport hunting and sporting weapons on their aircraft, even if this is permitted by international regulations. As mentioned above, Brussels Airport Company, in cooperation with the federal police and DGLV, has proposed a new procedure for the registration of luggage containing hunting and sports weapons. The basic principle is that such luggage is checked and registered in a separate area of the standard terminal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We're already on the right track. My only question is whether this new regulation has already entered into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u80	I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u81	Mr Minister, the latest report by the Flemish Traffic Centre proves once again that Antwerp is getting more and more vehicles to process and that traffic jams are getting longer and longer. With almost 140,000 vehicles per day in both directions, the Antwerp ring between Berchem and Antwerp-Oost was the busiest road segment in the country in 2015. The nine busiest road segments of 2015 are all on the Antwerp ring. Meanwhile, large works have also started in the city centre. Together with the future work on the Oosterweel connection, they will make sure that, unfortunately, the problem of congestion will get worse in the first place. It is therefore necessary that more people come by train to Antwerp. To realize that, the commuters must be motivated to take the train. The GEN Antwerp offers a quick and cheap solution for this. Extending the offer on two lines will bring little or no infrastructure adjustments, but will give the passenger more opportunities, making the train supply more attractive. In response to a previous question, your predecessor replied that the preliminary conclusion of SNCB's GEN study states that it is absolutely desirable to set up a suburban network. Mr. Minister, do you intend to launch the GEN Antwerp? What's the status of the file? Do you agree with the conclusions of the Flemish Transport Centre report that the suburban network of Antwerp is more necessary than ever?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u82	Mr Klaps, SNCB is indeed studying concrete initiatives in this context. These slopes could, once validated, be included in the December 2016 transport plan, P-trains on line 4 to and from Noorderkempen or the December 2017 transport plan. A first piste studied by SNCB is the strengthening of the supply of Noorderkempen-Antwerp during the rush hour. Indeed, the report of the Flemish Traffic Centre confirms that the suburban network of Antwerp is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u83	Yes, the suburban network of Antwerp is indeed necessary. No, we should not study the matter further or think about it. All the numbers are on the table. Unfortunately, it didn't happen sooner, but I'm not holding you responsible for that at all. This is a file that, unlike a lot of other large files you have found on your board, costs little or no money. Even in times when the budget is particularly difficult to scrape money together for large investment projects, that project should therefore be perfectly feasible. The need for it is also greatest in the whole country; the figures clearly show this. I therefore urge you not to wait until the next transport plan, after which we will look at it again and examine it further if necessary. I would like to call on you to be a little more formal and take action by starting it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u84	Not tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u85	Today?!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u86	...but by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u87	Minister, in the 2015 Annual Report of the Rail Passenger Mediation Service, there is a problem with federal funding for this service. According to this report, the Mobility and Transport FPS states that there is no legal basis in the legislation for financial participation in the mediation service. In the report, however, the ombudsmen recall the following: "The independence of action and management of any mediation service is one of the guarantors of its credibility and viability. In the performance of his duties, the Ombudsman shall not be instructed by any authority. In this case, the SPF does not have to decide whether to release any amount available from an approved budget." The Ombudsmen plead for the application of the second paragraph of Article 17 § 6 of the Law of 28 April 2010 which provides: "In order to cover the administrative costs necessary for the application of this Law and its implementing decrees, the King shall fix the rate, as well as the time and manner of payment of the fees to be collected by the sector". Minister, are you aware of this difficulty? Is a solution possible to enable the mediation service to operate within the budget allocated for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u88	Thank you, ma'am. My answer will be very short. I was very recently informed of the difficulties in the rail mediation service. This is part of a broader context for the consolidation of all federal mediation services. The SPF contacted the railway mediator in order to understand the difficulties and find a solution. I can't tell you any more so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u89	You're coming back, Mrs. Grovonius!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u90	The mediators will also come back in their report next year if this solution is not found. The good news is that contacts are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u91	I wasn't aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u92	That's what questions sometimes serve...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u93	What is the purpose of reporting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u94	Yeah, I read the report, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u95	The report first, then the parliamentary follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u96	Madam President, Minister, this is a question relating to a TGV stop in Maffle. We have read in several newspapers that there are plans to build a TGV stop in the village of Maffle. I did not know this village, but it is a submunicipality of Aat, and has 28 000 inhabitants. On weekdays 188 passengers use the station of Maffle and on Saturdays and Sundays 23 and 33 respectively. Maffle is therefore a small village in a rural area with no significant traveler flows. When you read those articles, you actually think of a 1 April joke. That's how I got it in my mailbox. Someone asked me if this was a April 1 joke. But apparently people are serious about building Maffle as a full TGV stop. According to those articles, SNCB is seriously investigating that idea. There is an investment cost of around EUR 40 million. The need to build a TGV stop here is completely unclear. I have the following questions. Is it true that SNCB is actually investigating the development of a TGV stop there? What's the cost of this? Which nearby attractions explain the need for a TGV stop in Maffle? What does the investment cell say about that project? Finally, do you, as a minister, consider this to be a good use of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u97	Madam President, Minister, last week, during the discussion of the resolution on the important line from Mol to Hamant, I already made an allusion to the newspaper articles that have been published on this subject. Your predecessor, Mrs Galant, says in the French-speaking media that a TGV stop in Maffle would be welcome. My questions are as follows. Does the construction of a TGV stop point still depend on the approval of Infrabel? What's the estimated cost? For whom are the estimated revenues from an additional stop at Maffle? For Infrabel? For a private party? Are there any other projects that your predecessor has submitted? When are we going to decide on the projects that are being held back? What is the amount that can be spent effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this request, which I have indeed received, was recently communicated to both companies with a view to a budgetary analysis and a technical feasibility study. Afterwards, the investment cell will have to decide on this together with the Regions. I'm waiting for this advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u99	It wasn't an April fish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u101	So I'm waiting for the advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u102	You did not answer my last question as to whether you think this is a good use of taxpayers' money. We believe that these are madness, and we have already communicated it. Moreover, the journey time of the TGV is extended on the Brussels-Paris journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u104	After the ghost-Thalys there will soon be the panda-Thalys!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u105	I take note of the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u106	Questions Nos 12842 and 12842. Van den Bergh and No 13110 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u107	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the infrastructure fee. There seems to be a breakthrough there. There would be a freeze with regard to the infrastructure fee which SNCB in particular has to pay to Infrabel for the use of the lanes. We have said here on several occasions that this infrastructure fee is crucial for the development of additional services and for the introduction of additional trains by SNCB. That is why it is very important to clarify this, especially in the light of the possible development of suburban networks, including in Antwerp, which was already mentioned in Mr Klaps' question. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is your view on the path fee? Can you confirm the freezing of that fee? If yes, what does this mean and for what period? What are the consequences of this freeze for the development of suburban networks? Finally, on an earlier question, your predecessor replied that Infrabel was willing to look at the infrastructure for GEN Antwerp as part of the global review of the usage fees. What is the state of play and the timing of the steps to be taken? Can you elaborate on the ideas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u108	Madam President, Minister, as Mr Van den Bergh says, it is not new that we are asking questions about this in this committee. I think I even asked a question about this at your first committee meeting, in which I referred to European legislation. At the beginning of July, the Council of Ministers decided on a sum of 13.7 billion for SNCB and Infrabel for the period 2016-2020. SNCB would receive 8.7 billion, of which 5.6 billion and 3.1 billion for lane fees, and Infrabel 5 billion, but the path fee given to SNCB would be passed on to Infrabel. The infrastructure fee would be frozen at the level of 2014, which means €637,2 million per year. I think everyone knows that the travel path fee in Belgium is quite high for travellers and quite low for goods. The whole debate on an additional offer was a freeze on that lane fee. In this committee, too, Infrabel has said that he should not oppose this, but that he should have sufficient resources. That was an acceptable explanation from the CEO of Infrabel about that lane fee. In the written record of the question I referred to the very nuanced opinion of the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers on this path fee. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you confirm the freezing of the infrastructure fee? What does that mean in practice? How much resources will SNCB then have to create additional supply? Think of the suburban networks in Antwerp and other cities, about which Mr Van den Bergh had just mentioned. What does this mean for the financial situation of Infrabel? Will there be any changes to the various presentations made by SNCB during the road shows now that the donation is known?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u109	Colleagues, Minister, I had tabled a similar question, but we forgot to put it on the agenda. I will not repeat what Mr Geerts said about the appropriations approved in the Council of Ministers for the period 2016-2020. In recent months, the senior officials of Infrabel - and this was again said in committee last week during the hearings on security and the Buizingen recommendations - say that there can be no further savings, otherwise, general investments, and in particular in security, could no longer be assured. I think the figure of one and a half billion was even quoted in these hearings. It is therefore important, Minister, to clarify the situation. Can you confirm the amounts of the 2016-2020 endowments, as well as the distributions between Infrabel and SNCB? Can you confirm the breakdown year by year? With regard to savings, can you confirm the amounts of savings imposed on Infrabel and SNCB for 2016-2020? (...): This is your question No.13092 and it is attached to another question by Mr. Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u110	I didn't see... I'll put it down later, at point 54. We're pretending I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel is currently putting together a proposal for a new formula for the use of the levy, in accordance with the relevant European legislation. Pending the entry into force of the new formula at the end of 2018, the current rules will remain in force. In addition to the amount of Infrabel received by the public authorities, the levy is an important source of financing for the infrastructure manager to cover its expenditure and obtain final accounts. As a supervisory authority, I have taken note of the recent advice of the Advisory Committee of Train Travellers. With a view to preparing the new management contract, it is now up to Infrabel to see how the company can best meet its own financing needs and the importance of the railway undertaking. It is up to Infrabel to propose further rules. It goes without saying that all operators will have to pay the infrastructure fee in such a way that potential rail transport is discouraged as little as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u112	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u113	Mr President, a decision was taken at the Council of Ministers on 8 July on the distribution of amounts. I have looked at the notifications made by the Council of Ministers and I thought that, in addition to the distribution of the amounts, the freezing of the infrastructure fee was de facto decided? In this reply, you refer again to Directive 2012/34, which still has to be negotiated. Now it's unclear to me. Has this been decided or has nothing been decided yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u114	This year's levy will be the same as last year's. There's a stabilisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u115	So there's a stabilisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u116	Minister, I saw a video on the La Capitale website about the organisation of religious activities on the Vorst platform. Everyone can have their religious beliefs of mine, I have absolutely no problem with that, but I find it strange that it happens on the workplace and certainly on a platform and during working hours. What is the policy of Infrabel and SNCB in relation to the exercise of religious activities? Is there any clarity about the case in Frost? Were any outsiders involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u117	In the SNCB Group, a neutral attitude is the rule when it comes to the pursuit of religious activities. This applies both to travellers and to fellow Members of this House. The persons on the film and on the photograph are employees of the subcontractor who cleans the trains. The place where prayer took place is a parking lot next to the company's work containers. The cleaning company's manager states that the incident will not repeat itself and that there were no outsiders involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u118	Minister, I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u119	Minister, on June 14, the newspaper L'Echo reported that you would not want to increase the number of annual movements allowed at Brussels Airport. I quote: "The texts guarantee 250,000 flights a year, of which 16,000 at night. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of increasing this number." The Ecolo-Groen Group and I congratulate you on this statement. It is time to realize that our Brussels National airport is the worst located in the world and, therefore, cannot continue to develop without limits. Of course, the reception of the sentence I have just mentioned is much cooler on the Brussels Airport side, whose legendary health and environmental concerns are known. That's humor! For example, her spokesperson, Ms Anke Fransen, spoke in L'Echo on 29 June to point out that "there is no legal limitation on the number of air movements at the airport, outside the limitation to 16,000 flights at night" and that Belgocontrol must guarantee a minimum capacity of 74 movements per hour during each hour of the day. And Ms Fransen to proceed with the following calculation: 74 flights/hour x 17 hours per day (between 6 and 23 hours) x 365 days/year give 459 170 movements per day per year. That's almost twice as much as the 250,000 flights you announced on June 14 in L'Echo. The margin of increase is therefore significant, given that Brussels Airport relies on a volume increase of 2 to 3 % of flights per year. Minister, do you consider that the increase in airport activity as envisaged by Brussels Airport is compatible with respect for the right to a healthy environment? What initiative do you intend to take in order to set the limit of 250,000 annual movements by regulation, since there is no regulation in force according to Brussels Aiport? Do you intend to defend the ceiling number of 16,000 movements allowed at night without abolishing night flights, knowing that some, such as the Belgian Air Transport Association, are asking for its abolition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u120	My colleague, there is a legal limitation on night flights of 16,000 flights per year, of which no more than 5,000 take-off slots, the rest being allocated to arrivals. For technical reasons, the airport's capacity is currently limited to 74 movements per hour with daily hazards and distributions. There is therefore a regulatory limitation on the number of night flights and a practical limitation on movements per hour. I do not intend, in the short term, to make any changes to this framework. In the interview you mentioned, I did mention a flight limitation. It was an operational position and not a regulatory position. In this complex issue, of course, there is the regulatory framework, which I respect. There is also an operational reality and the essential need to define, step by step, a vision for our national airport. It is this work that must enable economic activity to continue while taking into account its environment. I want every aircraft capacity to be optimized, or better used to have more passengers by air. This is already the case in recent years. According to LAC, the occupancy rate increased from 94 passengers per flight in 2015 to 100 passengers per flight in 2016. I also hope that the least noisy planes will be favoured. The balanced approach is that, taken up in Regulation 598: to give a signal to all stakeholders that there are opportunities, but also constraints in defining this vision, and that it is together that the point of balance will have to be found. To remove any ambiguity, it is not on the agenda to review the ceiling for night flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u121	Mr Minister, I understand that, obviously, you have gone faster than music, since you said, I repeat, "The texts guarantee 250,000 flights." In essence, you just said no!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u122	I know what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u123	In this case, you will send a correction to the newspaper L'Echo, but it is very clear: "The texts guarantee 250,000 flights a year." It is not the texts that guarantee 250,000 flights a year, but the operational reasons that you have just declared. I'm just like you very happy to know that planes are better filled. Brussels Airport can thus bring more people into its business, into commercial areas, while not taking off more aircraft, which is good news. Airport development can be combined with a non-increase in the number of flights, day and night. I encourage you to think fundamentally, in the overall solution you are working on, not only about limiting the number of night flights, what is acquired and regulated, but also about the number of day flights. This can be part of the balance. If one realizes, in the general balance found with the economic partners and with the residents, that a limitation in the number of flights can reassure the residents, this could be part of the balanced solution that you call for. In any case, we will support you in this initiative. I must say that, so far, your knowledge of the file and your commitment to the file allow us to believe it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u124	Madam President, Minister, according to Unia, the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, the SNCB does not take sufficient account of the needs of people with reduced mobility (PMR). I would add that the statistics in SNCB's 2015 Quality of Services report tend to confirm this analysis. I read that the rate of satisfaction with station accessibility has decreased by more than 6% compared to 2014, that the rate of satisfaction with on-site assistance has decreased by more than 3% compared to 2014, and that the rates of satisfaction with the accessibility of docks and trains have decreased by almost 9% and 5.5% respectively. The elements highlighted by Unia are as follows. Trains do not allow boarding or disembarkation on a level. The introduction of the RER (S offer), together with the Desiro trains, would not provide independent access to passengers travelling in wheelchairs. Unia also recalls the recent purchase of the 445 M7, which would also not allow for autonomous access, since the height of these trains does not correspond to the standard height of the docks in Belgium. The accessibility of the stations is also pointed out, particularly for the Ottignies station, which is described as "totally inaccessible to passengers with reduced mobility". When you know the importance of this station, it seems problematic. The issue of the Contact Center is also raised. It must allow PMRs to request assistance, but the number is fee-paying, resulting in additional costs for these individuals. With regard to internet access, it would appear that the website does not have the AnySurfer label and therefore does not offer any guarantee of access to the visually impaired or the blind. In the meantime, I have been able to read another report, the 2015 report of the Rail Passenger Mediation Service, which separates us from the filing of this question. Other elements are noted, including the problem of on-board rates for PMRs. Indeed, the Mediation Service regrets that there is no exception for PMRs in relation to this fare on board, while automatons and the Internet are not always easily accessible to them. A request is expressed for an exception for PMRs. In addition, the deadline for booking assistance is also highlighted. This period shall be twenty-four hours, except in eighteen stations where the time limit is three hours. But this applies only for direct trips and reservations are only possible during the opening hours of this Contact Center. This is an additional brake and a fairly significant inequality for PMRs. Mr Minister, have you seen these various elements which I have taken from various reports and from the intervention of Unia? Can you comment on these comments from Unia? What actions do you intend to implement to improve access to PMRs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u125	Mrs Grovonius, the accessibility of trains is the result of two components: infrastructure and rolling stock. On both the infrastructure and the rolling stock side, coordinated structural measures have been taken to facilitate access to trains, but much work remains to be done. The standardization of the height of the 76-centimetre wharfs is a major priority for SNCB. In the present state of affairs, all the stations and stop points of the SNCB have docks at three heights: 28 centimetres, 55 centimetres and 76 centimetres. Only 28% of the docks are at the desired height of 76 centimetres. The lower wharfs (28 centimetres) will be upgraded in the first instance. This is more than half the length of the docks. With regard to the new equipment put into service, the cars 08, i.e. the Desiros, are equipped with a sliding step to fill the gap between the dock and the car. The M7 double-deck cars have been optimised in view of a return to experience with double-deck cars. Modern equipment and equipment currently being upgraded have a more spacious second-class multifunctional passenger space accessible to PMRs, where the person with reduced mobility can take place. These are modernized Break and Quadruple equipment, M6BD cars, two-level M6 cars and future multifunctional M7BDx cars as well as Desiro motors. By 2030, at the time of the end of the M4 cars, which are the most annoying, all trains will offer PMR-specific seats. Modern or modernised equipment, with the exception of modernised M5s, has toilets adapted to PMRs. Apart from the M5 cars, all the equipment will have adapted toilets by 2030. The modern and renovated equipment has information screens inside the train. M7 equipment will meet the new PMR TSI, which will ensure that the needs of PMRs are met. The first supply will take place in 2020. With regard to the accessibility of railway stations, SNCB states that an action plan has been in place since 2008 under the management contract for improving accessibility for sanitary facilities, sliding doors, guide lines for the blind and visually impaired. In addition, under TSI 2014 and the new management contract, an action plan has been drawn up in collaboration with the Mobility FPS to improve the accessibility of railway stations. With regard specifically to the Ottignies station, the SNCB confirms the shortcomings in accessibility. The execution of the masterplan for this station is planned with the local authorities. In this respect, all legal accessibility requirements shall be taken into account. The time frame for the implementation of this project is not yet known precisely because it depends on the funding of the RSP. Pending this comprehensive approach to improving accessibility, the SNCB plans the following work: extension of the sub-lane crossing, demolition of the old bridge, doubling of existing stairs, installation of elevators pending full renewal, except for docks 10 and 11. The period of assistance provided for in Regulation 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 23 October 2007 provides for 48 hours before departure. It is already widely respected by SNCB. The reservation period, as you have indicated, for the request for assistance to SNCB is 24 hours. At eighteen stations, it is now three hours when the journey takes place between these stations, without correspondence. Persons with reduced mobility can reserve their request for assistance by telephone and via the Internet. The competent SNCB staff is trained to meet their needs, whether they are visually impaired or hearing impaired. The flight crew received the required training, including the use of an escalator, the use of their ITRIS PMR applications and the procedures to be followed. In terms of Internet access, SNCB has been making ongoing efforts since 2009 to make its website more accessible. This is done in close consultation and through audits with AnySurfer. According to SNCB, the AnySurfer guidelines are not 100% applicable for a complex website with many features, such as its own. For all new developments, it continues to take into account any Surfer's guidelines and strives to comply with them. It also ensures, for example, that the application can be used by the blind and visually impaired.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u126	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. You first indicated that accessibility depended on infrastructure and rolling stock. We must add the human factor. You mentioned it later. Having train personnel and attendants is essential for this particular component of rail traffic. This is an additional argument for this human factor to be present and strengthened. You mentioned the information screens inside the new cars. That's very good. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the report of the Mediation Service suggests that an audible signal may indicate, among other things, the side of the door opening. This seems relevant to me and should be taken into account. Finally, it is true that the European directives provide for a period of 48 hours before departure for the reservation of assistance. We respect this provision, but I would point out that in the Netherlands it is only one hour before we can reserve this assistance. I hope that we can make further progress in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u127	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of the H3 helicopters (Ultralight Helicopter Manufacturer - Dynali Helicopter Company) in Belgium. It's a cross between a helicopter and a ULM. This gives a small helicopter for one or three people. This technology is developing strongly in the world. There is already a company in Nivelles that employs 20 people. Some are marketing these helicopters. Given the democratic nature of the price – we can find it for 100,000 euros – it is clear that we will talk about it more and more. Minister, I have been questioned by people working in this area, who testify to the fact that there would be a lack of approval to allow these H3 helicopters to fly. This approval seems to be in preparation. Minister, can you tell me the status of the signature of the approval mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u128	Colleagues, as you know, the national ULM regulation is undergoing a thorough revision currently under way within DGTA. Among various themes, DGTA pays particular attention to the operational aspect of security. The ULM sector holds a special place in the air world: light equipment, simplified maintenance, easy piloting are the main characteristics of ULM-class aircraft. Before incorporating ULM Class 6 helicopters into national regulations, I believe it is important to ensure that they reflect the philosophy and characteristics described above. In particular, I asked my services to enquire about similar experiences of Class 6 equipment in other neighbouring countries, knowing that there is a reflection at European level. Some recognize them, others do not. It is difficult to know whether air legislation for airline aircraft is applicable or that for ULM, because we are really at the border between two technologies. The difficulty lies in the fact that this new technology is a mixture of the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u129	Minister, indeed, you have answered correctly. We're at the border between two pieces of legislation. It is true that people who market or produce such devices are eager to have this legislation in order to be able to develop their activity. Do you have an idea of a timing to get an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u130	A working group had been set up, but it was known that Germany had included it in the ULM class at the international level. Other European countries are very reluctant. There is a benchmarking that is currently being performed. I can't say more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u132	Minister, during the Buizingen follow-up committee, it was stated at one point that an additional billion should be saved, with the key 47 % Infrabel, 53 % SNCB. In last Thursday's plenary session, Mr Flahaux asked you a question about this and you formally denied it. I went to look at my tables on the savings path that was put forward. There is a difference between the point of departure of Infrabel and SNCB and that of the government. That difference is probably the cause of an additional billion savings. My questions are as follows. Is the difference in starting points the reason why, according to the companies, an additional billion should be saved, whereas the government had already foreseen this? What will the key be?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u133	Mr Minister, I am responding to a question I raised in the assessment committee on the recommendations of the Buizingen committee. I had addressed this question to Infrabel's head, Ann Billiau, to whom I had asked, as I had done with you during our first meeting during the accident at Saint-Georges-Sur-Meuse, whether the pace of the economies projected by the government would not risk – not now, but in the near future – having an impact on the planned measures for rail safety, mainly on the installation of the ETCS system. I was extremely surprised by the answer that was given. Ms. Billiau spoke of additional savings that the government wanted in the course of June. She said that if these were to be added to the others, she could not tell us if it would not become "difficult". I don't know what that means, but it has always caused trouble in the committee. That's why I want to question you. Either you cut the duck wings, or you're clearer about the projected savings. Are negotiations under way with Infrabel? Do they involve additional savings? If so, how many are estimated? Do you intend to change the distribution key between Infrabel and SNCB? Will you change the fee collected by Infrabel? How will the ETCS masterplan and the recommendations made following the Buizingen rail disaster be implemented within the announced deadlines and according to the announced methodology? How will Infrabel implement the agreed savings and potential future savings by meeting its commitments not to affect security? What, then, will they be about? We know that this represents a large part of Infrabel's investments, of course. When will the government record its decisions in an IPP? That is the problem: the PPI has been undermined by your decisions and the savings decided by your predecessor, of the order of 2 billion:grosso modo 1 billion on Infrabel and 1 billion on SNCB. What exactly is the IPP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u134	Minister, this Friday, the government decided to allocate the allocations for the period 2016-2020 totalling EUR 13.699 billion, EUR 5.6 billion for SNCB and EUR 5 billion for Infrabel. So now they know what foot to dance on. As a result, there was a change in the allocation of allocations between SNCB and Infrabel. We also learn that you have frozen the amount of the infrastructure fee at its 2014 level, thus meeting SNCB's request of €3.1 billion. A question was asked in that regard. Over the past few months, Infrabel's senior officials have been sounding the alarm. The alarm bell was also drawn twice in committee: on the one hand, during the hearing of the CEO following the accident in Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse, during which no figures were communicated and, on the other hand, during the hearings on the follow-up to the recommendations of the Buizingen Commission. It is therefore essential, Mr Minister, to clarify the situation. Can you confirm the amounts of the allocations for the years 2016-2020 and their distribution between Infrabel and SNCB? Can you also provide us with the breakdown year by year? With regard to savings, can you confirm the amount of savings imposed on Infrabel and SNCB for the period 2016-2020? What is the breakdown of these savings between Infrabel and SNCB in relation to the 2014 endowments? Finally, what is the breakdown of these savings between exploitation and investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the fall of 2014, this government set the railway budget framework for the term of the legislature. Overall, companies have been aware of the total amount of these savings since that date. Against this framework, the government is keeping the course. There is therefore no question of additional savings. On the other hand, the amount of the amount earmarked for each company was not notified until 27 June 2016. On the basis of my reasoning, based on the analysis of the situation of the two companies together, the examination of the recorded accounting results for 2014 and 2015 led to a review of the key to the distribution of the savings provisionally adopted for the years 2015 and 2016. After rebalancing, and taking 2015 as the reference year, a 50-50 key for the distribution of savings between the two companies was chosen. No key had ever been defined for 2016 and beyond. Compared to the level of the allocations defined in the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025, which was described as a Saint-Nicolas plan by one of the ministers of the government at the time, with no source of funding found – and funding was not guaranteed – the overall amount of savings is therefore 3 billion over the period 2014-2019. But this is $3 billion compared to a 2013-2025 investment plan that had never been funded. Compared to the 2015 level of allocation, the overall reduction in the 2016-2020 allocation in order to reach the budgetary framework set by the new government is 1.268 billion. This overall reduction in endowment was allocated to 50-50 between the two companies. The amounts paid to SNCB and Infrabel for the period 2016-2020, excluding corrections under the recovery plan, transfers and indexation, and assuming the same amount in 2020 as in 2019, amount to EUR 8.75 billion and EUR 4.95 billion respectively. This figure takes into account the frozen infrastructure fee, as explained. Why freeze? Because when you have an offer policy, in the current system, the more trains you add, the more you have to pay, while when you want to add trains without penalising the offer, you have to stabilize the infrastructure charge. Taking into account the infrastructure charge, the amounts of SNCB and Infrabel are 5.6 billion and 8 billion respectively, representing 41% for SNCB and 59% for Infrabel. I wanted to leave the initiative to management to divide the efforts between exploitation and investment in order to guarantee the best service to the user. Companies will soon have to communicate this distribution to us. With regard to the deployment of ETCS on the network, as I said in plenary session, taking into account the information on the various existing systems, the dispute between Infrabel and Siemens, I will set up a working group composed of technical representatives from Infrabel, SNCB, SPF Mobility and my firm, which will be responsible for ensuring the proper implementation of the masterplan within the time limits laid down. I will also make sure that there is not already a delay at the moment because I have heard that this could already today, on the basis of the dispute between Siemens and Infrabel, lead to a delay of implementation of 7 months on the network. Finally, I remain convinced that greater efficiency is compatible with a high level of safety. Each responsible person must take the decisions that allow the various objectives to be reconciled. As soon as Infrabel has communicated its analysis, progress can be made on the preparation of the multi-annual investment plan. I repeat, security is a must, and it is my priority. The strategic vision for rail in Belgium requires greater customer orientation, a common and shared orientation for railway companies. Moreover, investments in pharaonic stations, as we have known in the past, are no longer relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u136	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look at the amounts of money I have left on countless occasions in the written record of my question. I obtained those figures from a table from your predecessor, who gave a presentation of the strategic vision for rail in Belgium on 15 July 2015. If I looked at the various figures and figures, I came to a different amount than the amount I hear now. After hearing the various CEOs here, the discussion about the difference in calculation remains, and they have seen a delta as a difference in the amount in another initial moment. This certainly has an effect on exploitation. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u137	Thank you, Minister. I'm a little puzzled about your answer. I can't find "my numbers", a little like Mr Geerts said, and as Mrs Lalieux will say, in my opinion. When I saw his extremely perplexed look, when you provided the numbers...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u138	I can give you...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u139	On savings...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u140	It's not about savings, it's about numbers, I can...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u141	Two seconds...You talked about three billion in savings over the period 2014-2019. Or I don't have the same numbers... I had the impression that Mrs. Galant had announced two billion over the period?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u142	Three billion cents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u143	On staffing, I can't find my "young people," if you understand me. There's something I don't know. Of the savings, three billion, you're not increasing anything? Could you repeat it again, perhaps?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u144	We will see the figures in the minister's response. Minister, at some point, what is being done with these three billion hundred savings? This is a bad competition between two essential companies. We are calling for savings in investments on the back of the farm. It is therefore a perverse game between the two operators who have actually bragged to know who would make the most savings. I agree with you: the more trains we put on, the more we pay. But trains that will drive tomorrow on an infrastructure that cannot be maintained, because Infrabel will not have enough investment, because the catenaries will not be maintained, these trains will no longer be punctual. These trains won't be able to drive anymore. Indeed, there are communicating vases. The very principle, the problem itself, is the economy of 3.1 billion. Today, it is only the workers who have made savings through productivity efforts, through the pyramid of workers' pensions. Today we see how much competition is being made between the two companies and I fear that tomorrow, on the secondary tracks, our trains will no longer be driven because there will be no more maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is confusion about the figures that are being put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u146	We have to make a picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u147	First of all, the savings of three billions stemmed from the 2013-2025 investment plan for which there was not the first euro on the table. We are talking about the projection of this plan. If we had executed it, we would have doubled SNCB's debt. In this case, it would have automatically returned to the SEC perimeter of our country. We are therefore starting from a very ambitious 2013-2025 plan, comprising 25 billion euros of investment without us being able to finance it. In this regard, a minister of the government at the time said: "It is a Saint Nicholas plan". All applications had been accumulated, and this plan was developed. This government says: "No! It is impossible to implement it." In our view, the savings over the period 2014-2019 are 3.1 billion compared to a plan that does not exist. Based on the situation in 2014 and having allocated the resources for 2015, we have drawn up a plan for 2016-2020. If you take the $3.1 billion, since the plan does not come into effect, the real economy for Infrabel and SNCB is 1.268 billion. Therefore, when you talk about the introduction of competition, I would remind you that it was not necessary to wait for this savings plan for the objectives of the two companies to diverge. For my part, I support a "group" reasoning and I will see in their respective balance sheet to understand what is going on there. If you define the customer offer as the target, as far as I'm concerned, I prefer a better offer to a better balance sheet. You will understand why later, since we will probably have an opportunity to discuss the matter again. Still, if, with this plan, you focus everything on the offer, you will automatically see a dilution. If in 2023 – and I will stress this again – we do not meet the criteria of the average of the railways in Europe, you will make a cross on the designation of the historical operator as organiser of the public service mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u148	Minister, allow me to interrupt because you are beyond the scope of the question. There will be an exchange of views on this issue at the beginning of the year, but there is no question of entering into a debate now because 25 issues are still on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u149	The debate was about the difference in vision of savings. I'm just asking if you could get us a table, Mr. Secretary? I take as my starting point the FPS budget document of 23 April 2014 with the recurrent savings of EUR 150 million, as decided by the previous government, and the additional linear tables. Apart from the substantive debate, I can no longer follow the relationship between the different companies and what is the right route. If I can clarify that, I can come back with a question about the consequences of these savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u150	Madam President, the response that has just been made would require much debate. Minister, if I sum up, choosing is always about giving up. The government has made choices. Since SNCB is within the scope of the State, 3 billion reductions must be achieved. That's what you just said. I'm glad to hear you say again that we won't touch security. But something else will have to be touched: frequencies, line maintenance, passenger comfort, etc. In short, a whole series of things that are regularly debated in this committee. Choosing is giving up, it's necessarily giving up on certain things. We must stop saying, that is 3 billion cuts because the other government did not want, etc., and say that we will not touch the security, the frequency of the lines. Your predecessor said we wouldn't touch rural lines. We'd like to know the choices. I guess we'll know them when we get back to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u151	As Mr Geerts has asked, we will ask whether the minister can transmit to the secretariat, for all members, the allocation tables with the evolution per year. I recall that the train is a whole and the customer is in the center. If the customer does not have a well-maintained infrastructure, the customer will no longer have trains that will run properly on the railway tracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u152	Mr Minister, I have a question about the faulty ticket machines and the connection with the ITRIS devices. Before and during the roll-out of the ITRIS devices to the train escorts it was stated that the new device could be used to detect whether and which ticket machines would be defective. I have already asked your predecessor questions about the matter. She also replied that there would be a real-time connection from the train indicating whether or not the ticketing machine is defective. In a press release, SNCB clarified that ITRIS devices cannot detect in real time which vending machines are defective. Only the vending machines that are defective at the start of the day are visible, but vending machines that fail throughout the day are not yet visible. The function with which this is possible is currently being tested. Soon it will roll out, that's what it sounds like. This lack of real-time information, of course, causes a lot of discontent among the disabled travellers. They are entitled to a correction of that fare if it turns out that they can rightly point out that the ticketing machine was defective. In the meantime, however, the image damage to SNCB has occurred. Minister, I have the following questions for you. When will all train drivers get real-time updates on the defective ticket machines? Is the ITRIS device being evaluated with feedback from the staff themselves? What are their reactions? Are there recurring points of criticism or feedback? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u153	Mrs De Coninck, the latest tests are currently being carried out to ensure that the data are transmitted correctly and smoothly. If the tests are found to be positive, the date of entry into service will be scheduled this summer. However, the final timing remains to be determined. (...) Feedback is collected, both from the train escorts and from the managers. This feedback is used to build in the necessary modifications and developments with new updates of the software. As with any change, time is needed to adapt to new actions and procedures. Negative reactions are mainly a result of incidents that have occurred, such as technical problems, problems of synchronization and connection problems to make a payment with the bank card. Positive reactions include the additional capabilities of the devices, the ergonomics during digital ticket checks, the online connection via 4G and the clear display of important information at the disposal of the train staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u154	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As regards the answer to the first question, you said that the real-time update will be scheduled this summer. I'll keep following up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u155	Minister, heavy goods vehicles cannot catch up in the event of rain, but they cannot catch up on two-lane roads either. Yet they do, and that's how they put others in danger. If one wants to carry out checks on this, it would be possible to do so via ANPR installations, along Flemish roads among others, but a KB of 18 December 2002 still needs to be adapted for this purpose. That is an old very, Minister. It is a question of changing a KB that has been asked very often, as last year by the federal road police. It pointed out that the adaptation of the rules on automatic unattended enforcement of the catch-up ban for heavy goods vehicles is urgently needed. He's still not here. I know there is a lot coming for you, Minister, but that is one of the important and very simple things that could be adapted. Is it true that 14 ANPR cameras are equipped to check for restraining catches? If this function can be used, can the legislation be adapted accordingly? Why is that? Why is that? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u156	My dear colleague, the cameras are placed by the road managers, which are the Regions, for the regional roads, and the municipalities, for the municipal roads. I do not have any information on the functionality of the cameras. The detection of infringements of the catch-up ban in the case of rain weather using unmanned camera dynamometers does not seem self-evident, but it may change in the near future. Checking the catch-up ban on 2x2 roads by means of unmanned camera dynamometers seems at first sight possible. In order to allow the police to identify these offences in the most efficient way, my administration is working on an adaptation of the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 so that findings of those offences by unmanned camera dynamometers will have special probative force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u157	Thank you, Minister, for your positive reply. I've heard that there will be changes to the C.B. and that your cabinet is working on it. Sometime after the summer recess we will hear news about it. It's a very important change. I'll follow it up and I hope to get news soon about the change in the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u158	Minister, the Ottignies train station is the first station in Wallonia in number of passengers passing through it on a daily basis. According to the latest figures issued by SNCB, nearly 21,000 passengers pass through this station on a daily basis. In view of the large number of passengers it represents, the question again arises of the arrangements around this extremely important railway node. Indeed, for several years the municipal authorities have been demanding the renovation of the station in view of its use, as well as the improvement of accessibility, in particular for the PMRs which are practically excluded from it. If I am not mistaken, an amount of EUR 60 million has been provided for in the SNCB's multi-annual plan for the period 2016-2022. Minister, can you confirm your intention to proceed with the development of this Ottignies station? And if that is the case, can you give us an estimate of the budget that will be released in order to start work? When do you think the first work can begin?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed planned to completely modernise the reception facilities at the Ottignies station. In fact, there is a masterplan which is carried out on the initiative, I think, of the commune and in which we are associated with other actors. The total budget allocated for this modernisation will be determined in the context of the work of the investment unit which is currently working on the dossier. Pending this complete modernisation, shorter-term work is envisaged to improve accessibility for people with reduced mobility. If my memory is good, it is in particular the dismantling of the bridge, the realization of access (escalators or other) to all the docks except at docks 10 and 11. You know this station better than I do. This is the current pattern! Knowing that the Ottignies station has again become the first Walloon station, this is where significant investment will have to be made for the comfort of users and their accessibility, whether they are PMR or otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u160	I thank the Minister for his answer. This is, of course, good news for PMRs. I think this is really important, because the situation was really very problematic. All the progress in this area is therefore good. What worries me more, however, is to hear that we are going back to the investment unit. For several years, it has been necessary to review the investments, works and developments for this important station. I hope that this project can be tackled and developed quickly, as it must be a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u161	Madam President, Minister, on 5 July, as part of the follow-up to the Buizingen Commission's recommendations, we were able to interview several directors of lnfrabel, SNCB and HR Rail. In this context, I asked questions about the performance of agents in signal booths. For example, I asked Ms. Billiau if she knew any officers who worked for more than seven consecutive days in the cabin. In her answer, Ms. Billiau told me that a service of more than seven days was never planned but that the principle of continuity of service prevailed. Minister, before I come to any conclusion that may be hasty, I would like to ask you for clarification on this answer. Such services are not planned, of which act. But can you tell me if some agents in the signal booth actually work for more than seven consecutive days? If so, can you tell me how many consecutive days the staff involved have had to work, the number of staff involved and the reasons for such benefits, if any, beyond seven consecutive days?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u162	Mrs Grovonius, you suspect that I cannot personally verify the planning of the agents. My answer is therefore based on information received from Infrabel. If I live near a station, I won't control what they're doing! In the development of the Infrabel staff schedules for cabin services, the number of consecutive seven days of work is never exceeded. However, unplanned work periods of more than seven consecutive days may be identified ex post. These unplanned periods exceeding seven days, with a majority of up to eight days, occur exclusively in the event of force majeure and with the consent of the agents concerned. They are inevitable in order to ensure continuity of service. Cases of force majeure, by which this situation may be created, follow the need to replace staff absent from the emergency situation due to illness, accident or request for emergency leave. An excess of this seven-day period may also be a consequence of the need to align additional benefits to ensure urgent and unscheduled work. Cases of overruns of the seven-day period are most often found in the smallest workplaces, where the possibility of absent replacements is more limited. This will have to be partially resolved with the finalisation of the cabin concentration, allowing for an evolution towards larger working seats.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u163	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that safety reasons are important in relation to this overrun of the seven consecutive days of work. Again, I believe that the issue of available human resources is essential to limit these exceedances and to ensure that all security conditions are optimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u164	Mrs Grovonius, do you agree to replace me so that I can ask my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u165	If I have a choice, I'd rather go!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u166	In that case, I'll ask you my questions from my bench, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u167	Mr Minister, representatives of the baggage operators at the Brussels-National airport have asked you about the social difficulties facing their workers. They denounce the excessive use of precarious contracts, temporary workers and job seekers, which does not offer the social and employment stability these workers expect. In addition, they consider that this use of many temporary workers makes security screenings inapplicable while baggage operators work in sensitive areas of the airport, which was also pointed out in the Attentats Committee. On the other hand, bag operators' representatives are asking for the flights to be better spread throughout the day in order to smooth the workload. Finally, they ask to be more listened to because their work offers them a privileged analysis of certain safety problems at the airport. In this respect, they propose to organise a consultation which would put all the airport players around the table in order to identify the reforms that the airport needs. Minister, I would like to know what steps you are going to take to respond to the demands of the airport baggage operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u168	Madam President, bag operators are doing an essential but difficult job, particularly in the context of recent attacks. The contractual relations between Swissport and Aviapartner handling companies and their employees are not the responsibility of the public authorities. However, at my initiative, there were some avenues for work at a recent meeting between my services, DGTA, Swissport, Aviapartner and Brussels Airport Company. The objective remains to ensure a serene social climate despite the difficulties of the aviation sector. It was decided to hold a meeting between the last three partners to harmonize airline procedures for groundhandling services in order to enhance safety and efficiency. One solution could be to promote a better distribution of slots in order to better spread the flights during the day and thus reduce the instantaneous workload since it is irregular. The use of temporary workers does not justify any relaxation of safety standards for specific workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u169	Minister, thank you. I congratulate you on the organization of this working meeting with the bag operators since they also demand a better distribution of slots during the day in order to avoid peaks of work. But the problem of temporary workers was raised in the context of the various problems of the airport, and this, before the attacks, let us recall, because screenings do not know how to follow overnight when they employ temporary workers. This will have to be raised in the context of the work on the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u170	Mr Minister, following its analysis of the budgetary adjustment, the Court of Auditors is once again identifying the financing of Belgocontrol. On page 69 of its report, the Court finds in particular that the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 lays down, for 2016, the arrangements for the financing of the costs for the provision of terminal air navigation services at Belgian airports, and determines the costs for the five airports concerned, which amount to a total of EUR 24.9 million. Minister, negotiations on the cooperation agreement between the Regions and the Federal State have been dragging on for ten years. You are obviously in no way at issue here, but there is still a royal decree that must be respected. In doing so, Minister, will you comply with the Royal Order of December 26, 2015? When are you going to get the federal government to honour the benefits that are due to Belgocontrol under the last management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u171	Madam President, the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 lays down, for 2016, the arrangements for the financing of costs for the provision of terminal air navigation services at Belgian airports. The costs for the five airports concerned amount, as you said, to a total of EUR 24.9 million. I would like to point out that the majority of Belgocontrol's costs are financed by airspace users. The Federal State finances only part of Belgocontrol's services at airports. Payment of these services is essential to enable Belgocontrol to have the necessary resources to invest in the protection of its sites, but also to modernise and secure air traffic management systems, overflights, etc. The State has taken the necessary measures to ensure the safety of its airspace, in accordance with the third management contract concluded between the Belgian State and Belgocontrol. That is why, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2016 agreed to grant Belgocontrol an additional budget of EUR 25 million in 2016 through a budgetary amendment tabled in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u172	Minister, everything happens in time for Belgocontrol! This is important because Belgocontrol is also the safety of passengers. I would therefore like to thank you for having tabled this amendment to the budget adjustment. Having said that, you still have to know that my question was tabled before your amendment was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u173	Minister, on 13 June 2016, the European Regulation on noise-related operating restrictions at Union airports entered into force. This regulation concerns airport residents, as it has often been presented as making it impossible for Member States to limit aircraft noise around airports. That's the stumbling block. Reality seems much more nuanced to me. I would therefore like to hear you explain the influence of this regulation on the discretion of a State to define restrictions on overflight in the interests of public health and the comfort of life of the populations flying over. Can you, in writing if necessary, clearly explain to us the influence this regulation will have on the power of national authorities to limit overflight in the interests of health? Is Belgium in order to meet the requirements of this regulation? If not, what actions does it intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u174	Regulation 598/2014 aims to enhance compatibility between air operations and residential areas on the basis of the principles of the balanced approach to noise management adopted by the Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO. The concept of a balanced approach is based on four elements: reduction at source of aircraft noise, spatial planning and management measures, low noise operating procedures and operating restrictions. Regulation 598 does not require re-evaluation of existing noise operating restrictions. For the rest, it favours cost-effectiveness analysis rather than cost-benefit analysis. From now on, emphasis is placed on achieving a given objective by the most cost-effective means possible, which requires only a comparison of these. It shall specify the procedure applicable to the adoption of measures to restrict exploitation in order to strengthen informed decision-making and legal certainty. In particular, the text provides for an environmental impact assessment involving public participation. Finally, the Regulation requires Member States to designate an independent authority to implement the procedure for adopting operating restrictions. The new authority is responsible for the development of operating restrictions, monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of operating restrictions and the dissemination of relevant information to residents and local authorities, in accordance with article 6, paragraphs 3 and 4, of Regulation 598. In summary, the Regulations specify the applicable procedures and provide new guarantees to residents. A Regulation shall be binding on all those elements and directly applicable in all Member States. Implementing measures are necessary with regard to the designation of the authority. For the rest, it replaces the existing legal framework applicable to operating restrictions and currently laid down by the Ministerial Decree of 3 May 2004 on the management of noise pollution at Brussels-National airport and by the Royal Decree of 25 September 2003 laying down the rules of procedure for the introduction of operating restrictions at Brussels-National airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u175	Can you still change the roads?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u176	In other words, yes! For example, if we decide to change the hours at night, this will be submitted as it is a new restriction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u177	At European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u178	It is the European regulation that defines it. As soon as it comes to imposing new restrictions, we fall into the European Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u179	Why don't we extend the night at 7:00 in the morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u180	It's a new restriction, we need to study the whole canvas. We have to study everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u181	It's complicated!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u182	No, it's not complicated! It is a framework that is definitively sealed within a European framework and applicable in all countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u183	(...) It may be longer but at least it is clearly defined! But it is true that there is a lot of mixing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u184	The independent authority is responsible for the development of operating restrictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u185	And the independent authority, we have to put it in place!- Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u186	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u187	Mr Minister, the Benelux train is a rail service which has been connecting the capitals of Belgium and the Netherlands since 1957. The Benelux train connects Amsterdam and Brussels 16 times a day via different stations in the Netherlands, Flanders and Brussels-Central and North. At the end of 2016, the Benelux train will run between Amsterdam and Brussels with a partially modified route that I will not recite. Between Rotterdam and Antwerp, the train will use the LGV. Minister, could you provide us with the following information? What is the occupancy rate of the 16 relations between Brussels and Amsterdam? What is the breakdown of this occupation according to the station of origin? What is the cost per passenger of the Benelux train? Where appropriate, if the service proves to be in deficit, how is it compensated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u188	Madam President, the occupancy rate for the Benelux train varies by section and must be compared with the average occupancy rate for the domestic service of 26%. There's still some margin! The average occupancy rate on the basis of sales is 42% at the border (SNCB + NS sales divided by the number of seats on trains). However, in periodic counts, it is not unusual to see an occupation representing 64% of capacity, for example between Rotterdam and Brussels. Between Brussels and Antwerp, as well as between Roosendaal and Amsterdam, there are also domestic travellers. This train has not only an international function but also an important national function on the Brussels-Antwerp and Roosendaal-Amsterdam relationship, where the peak occupancy rate is close to 90%. A lot of travelers take this train and finally have another destination than one of the stations it serves, for example Utrecht, Breda, Eindhoven. The IC Brussels-Amsterdam is a train without reservation. Many travellers therefore choose to borrow it with cheap transport tickets, such as subscriptions, free routes and passes. In such cases, reliable counting on the basis of specific places of origin and destinations is very difficult. For 2013, the operating result for SNCB was positive. In 2014, with the increase in the number of frequencies, the operating result became negative. In 2015, this operating deficit worsened further, but it was strongly compensated by the mechanism negotiated between Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS) and the Dutch State, by which NS compensates for the loss of SNCB if it exceeds EUR 1.5 million per year for traffic on conventional lines and EUR 5.5 million per year when the train will operate on LGVs. This mechanism is referred to as the SNCB deficit capping in this agreement. On the current route of the Belgian part of the IC Brussels-Amsterdam, the loss reported on the number of passengers is €0.6 per single trip, taking into account the capping mechanism. From the passage on the LGVs, the loss will become 2.1 euros per single trip, taking into account the capping. The increase in frequencies beyond 12 round-trips and the passage through LGVs negotiated in the Samenwerkingsafspraak with the NS and the Dutch State in 2013 greatly increases the deficit of the service for SNCB. Fortunately, the negotiated SNCB deficit-limiting mechanism through NS compensation reduces the impact on SNCB's accounts. Since 2013, and according to the agreements between NS and SNCB, the possible deficit to be borne by SNCB has been capped at EUR 1.5 million. This was the case in 2015 and 2014. From the switchover to high-speed L4 and HSL-Zuid, the deficit to be borne by SNCB will be capped at EUR 5.5 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u189	Minister, thank you. You understand why I think these international connections should be open. They are important for the link between countries and for workers. But you also understand why I am asking this question; sometimes, in other cases, international trains are called into question because the operating deficit is too high. So I would like to see no double standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u190	Minister, two months ago, my colleague Laurent Devin asked you about the integration of Securail into the railway police. You replied that a reflection had been conducted by Securail and the railway police in order to optimize their collaboration. The results of this reflection were thus being studied in your office and in that of your colleague the Minister of the Interior. He wanted to create a Monitoring and Control Directorate within the Federal Police, which would integrate Securail, against the unanimous opinion of the SNCB Management Committee. You are also very reluctant to this project, considering, for your part, that Securail must absolutely keep a link with the railway sector. Indeed, this decision must above all be taken under the prism of effectiveness. In this regard, it is widely accepted that such integration would not bring any improvement in service, since this may even have the opposite effect by destroying the bond of trust and proximity that the Securail agents patiently have been trying to build for years. The role of Securail and its agents goes far beyond mere security missions. We must never lose sight of that. Minister, what are the results of the joint discussions between Securail and the railway police? What conclusions do your firm draw? Are you, yes or no, opposed to the integration of Securail into the police? Do you confirm your willingness to keep Securail within the SNCB and to develop a relationship based on trust and proximity between agents and users?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u191	Madam President, the railway police and the SNCB have conducted a joint reflection on the structural measures to be taken in the context of terrorism. There is no common reflection on the possible integration of Securail into the future direction of Monitoring and Control, as the priorities and views are not entirely identical. The priorities of Securail are not the same as those of the police service. The public service tasks of Securail are laid down by law and the contract for the management of the public undertaking and are attached to the railway world, whether they be operators or the infrastructure manager. The main aim is to provide customer service and to protect staff and the production process, including railway infrastructure. Securail's officers have technical expertise from the railways, which they would eventually lose if they became police officers. I fully share SNCB's arguments and formally oppose the full integration of Securail into the police. On the other hand, I can understand the argument of the unit of command in sensitive situations. It seems to me essential to improve further, in these difficult times, the collaboration between the services, while respecting the competences and priorities of each. I have therefore proposed an alternative solution which, I hope, will ensure optimum efficiency in certain particular circumstances. For well-defined missions, in the context of terrorism, it would be a matter of placing Securail under the temporary operational command of the police. In addition, security officers and police personnel could use the same radio frequency for some missions. Other options are possible, particularly to separate the missions of Securail "Grandes train stations" from all the rest of the territory, since in the large train stations their mission is close to that of the police, while elsewhere it is mainly about controls and administrative police services. Decisions have not yet been taken, but we want to retain Securail's expertise in the missions it carries out and not only in the missions of protection of persons, but also in the integrity of infrastructure, property against intrusions, different policies on specific rail safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u192	Minister, thank you for your answer. I share that vision. We had the opportunity to visit Securail shortly before the attacks. We have seen their expertise in relation to their missions. You don't have to integrate both. If a new attack were to occur, which I do not wish at all, one could foresee a single direction, a single radio frequency, etc. I think that all this needs to be considered in the context of the Attentats Committee. But, according to exceptional elements, let's not go towards integration where everyone would lose, including commuters, workers and also the expertise of Securail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u193	Minister, following the attacks of 22 March, the airport has reorganized its operations in an extremely difficult context. According to the daily newspaper La Libre Belgique, the organisation of security at the airport has been checked by the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA). The mission of your administration is to verify compliance with legal and regulatory prescriptions. According to the same daily newspaper, a DGTA inspector indicated that on two occasions he had been able to access the baggage already checked, which already had their identification label. This should not normally be possible any more. According to La Libre Belgique, problems would also arise with shoes, which would not be subjected to X-rays after an alarm at the portico. I am well aware of the challenge of reorganizing the airport. It is very important for DGTA to accompany and monitor staff and procedures to ensure that all safety standards are met. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions. How many controls have DGTA conducted at Brussels National Airport since 22 March? Have VPs been developed to address non-compliant situations? Do you consider it necessary to strengthen DGTA's personnel and budget services? If so, have you taken steps to do so? Finally, is collaboration between airlines, the airport, the federal police and your administration optimal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u194	Madam President, since the attacks of 22 March, Brussels-National Airport has been the subject of various inspections on 11, 12, 13, 20 and 25 April, following which a joint report – and not a minutes – containing all the findings was transmitted to Brussels Airport Compagny (LAC), following which the latter undertook several actions to remedy them. The adequacy of the new security requirements resulting from the post-attack situation with the available personnel is analysed by the DGTA. As part of the budget discussions, I proposed strengthening DGTA. Aviation security is the subject of intense collaboration between the various actors in the field (airport, airlines, federal police). Meetings on these issues, involving all these parties and others, are held regularly at each airport within the framework of a local security committee called LOVECO (local veilighoidscommittee). In addition to this, intensive consultation on various aviation security issues is also taking place at the level of the offices of the various ministers responsible, with reference to the National Security Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u195	Minister, you remember your predecessor's episode with European audits showing shortcomings. It is important that security be enhanced, also for the reputation of our airport. We care about this national airport! One of the demands of this administration and the aviation inspectors was to strengthen the staff to be able, with LAC, to work properly on these controls. I'm glad there's some collaboration between the two. If so, I will return to your requests for additional staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u196	Mr Minister, you participated in the Conference of Brussels Mayors on 29 June to discuss the issue of the overflight of Brussels. On the same day, you received the relevant mayors of Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant. A meeting with the various associations representing the dossier was also held on 28 June. What were the issues on the agenda of these meetings? Have any solutions been proposed to reduce the overflight of densely populated neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u197	Ms.Lalieux, the overflight file is a very complex matter; I am not going to explain it to you. It is complex because of the subject matter it touches, complex because the positions of all the stakeholders concerned are not always the same. They are even, for some, in total contradiction geographically, conceptually, etc. I therefore believe in the combination of positive actions rather than major risky changes to enable the implementation of a comprehensive strategy mastered in the short, medium and long term. Based on this, I have defined an approach based on seven components: a technical component, an operational component, an environmental component, an economic component, a legal component, a political component, an institutional component. It is by integrating each of these components and involving them all that I will be able to present and defend an equitable structural solution. I shared this analysis at several meetings with the Environment Ministers of the Regions. Ms. Fremault was the first to be received during my first week of appointment. I also had meetings with associations of local residents and with associations of mayors of the Brussels Region and the relevant mayors of the Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant, together. I have also placed great emphasis on the need for genuine consultation between all actors, whether operational, political or economic, or involved in associations of local residents. It will soon be proposed to set up a consultation group composed of all the actors I have just mentioned. I believe that the analysis and the search for the overall reduction of noise nuisances experienced by our residents for many years will involve dialogue, listening and building a relationship of trust between the actors. I will also use all existing institutional levers to achieve this. I have the will to achieve a fair and lasting solution, that is to say, a fair and balanced solution for all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic476x.u198	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that in one of the seven components – I imagine environmental – we will find public health and the criterion of population density. There are components for which one does not have the impression of a human dimension. I do believe that it is good to set up a consultation group with all the actors, but let us not forget this component of population density and public health.
