ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this is a regular feature of the media. Recently, specialists have asked themselves questions about the accuracy of the bone scans to determine the actual age of asylum seekers, alleged or self-explained minor asylum seekers, when the Department of Foreign Affairs has doubts about the real age. The questions asked by the specialists relate to the existing margin of error. Right now, there's a two-year margin of error, so the bone scan isn't really accurate. Of the approximately 5,000 unaccompanied minors, the Foreign Affairs Office had doubts about more than two thousand asylum seekers. In the period from January 2015 to March 2016, a bone scan was conducted with those people. Of these two thousand cases of doubt, 1 500 young people after the bone scan turned out to be of age. This means that the Aliens Office often has legitimate doubts and that the bone scan as a method to determine the actual age is justified. However, there is a margin of error. With regard to that margin of error, I wonder if I am not a doctor or something can be done about it. Can the test be refined so that the error margin of two years can be reduced? Can research the age in a different or better way? Is there any possibility of interpreting the results and the margin of error, and this is a cautious question to the detriment of the applicant rather than to the advantage? How can we ensure that people who deliberately lie about their actual age in order to obtain special protection from unaccompanied minors no longer hope for the margin of error in the outcome of these bone scans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the MENA receive tailor-made support and cannot be returned to their country. Belgium received about 5,000 in 2015. However, the Foreigners' Office may raise doubts as to the age declared by the asylum-seeker. A bone test on the clavicle, wrist and teeth is then performed. In approximately 1,500 cases of the 2,099 tests performed between January 2015 and March 2016, according to the Justice FPS, the results indicated that the migrant was a major. However, several specialists in the medical and voluntary world question these somewhat archaic tests. They consider them unreliable because of the margin of error (two years for the wrist, for example). In addition, no appeal is allowed against an age estimate, which means that a minor who is considered to be an adult is in danger of being expelled in the absence of adequate procedures. Minister, can you provide us with more information on these tests? Have any studies been conducted to measure their effectiveness? What measures and remedies are available to grant the benefit of the doubt to these minors? Is it legitimate to carry out such expertise given the degree of uncertainty surrounding these examinations? Age estimates should not be based exclusively on physical tests, but should take into account psychological maturity, behaviour, social and educational background. What measures are being taken to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, Mr Blanchart, Article 7 of the Programme Act of 24 December 2002 provides that the Voogdij Department may have a medical examination carried out by a doctor if this department or the authorities responsible for immigration have doubts as to whether the person claiming to be a minor is also effective. In this case, the person shall be informed of the course of the test and of any consequences that may result. This test is performed in a hospital and consists of three examinations, i.e. clavicle X-ray, wrist X-ray and orthopantomogram (teeth radio). The results of these three tests are collected and a radiologist formulates a final conclusion in which a fictitious age is determined, indicating a certain margin. The decision to establish that a person is over the age of 18 is therefore not based on a single element. The test results represent an estimate. Today, this test is the most reliable scientific method to determine whether or not a person is older than 18 years. For the record, the Voogdij Service has not been ordered to determine an exact date of birth. The legislator is aware of the limitations these tests have. For this reason, the third paragraph of Article 7 of the abovementioned programme law provides that, in the event of doubt as to the outcome of the medical examination, account is to be taken of the youngest age. In its opinion of 20 February 2010, the Order of Doctors stated that "Estimation always implies an inaccuracies factor and can therefore only lead to a confidence interval." Doubt should always fall in favour of the person who claims to be a minor. The method used in Belgium, including a reference to a margin of error, is accepted by international bodies such as the United Nations and the European Commission, which in a recent report even cited the Belgian methodology as a good practice. These documents will be available online. Apart from the data obtained through these tests, my administration shall take into account the statements made by the person concerned and, if necessary, invite the person concerned to a conversation in which all elements of the file are evaluated, including all information provided to the Voogdij department by the staff of the observation and orientation centres. Moreover, if the person has documents (passport, birth declaration, judgment), these documents are included in the analysis of the file, provided that they are authentic and if possible legalised in the country of origin by a Belgian diplomatic post. However, since many documents can be obtained without too many formalities, they are only taken into account up to two years below the lower margin resulting from the test. According to UNICEF, only half of the children born under five years of age are registered in developing countries. In Sub-Saharan Africa, 64 % of births are not registered and in South Asia it is even 65%. So, in good faith, one can think that one is a minor, and in reality they are not. In the event that young people present new elements, they may request a review of their file from the guardianship department. Notification of a majority decision constitutes an administrative act against which an action for suspension and annulment before the Council of State is brought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You mentioned the relevant legal provisions once again, and I understand that there is not much to change about the current situation. I certainly do not dispute that we in Europe still have one of the better systems to detect age, that is just the case. Unfortunately, there is that margin of error. I certainly do not want to have said that this is what you are saying between the rules, and that all those minors who appear to have grown up have lied about their age. I know that not every country's birth is as performant or as quickly registered as ours, something you have also mentioned. However, it is a phenomenon that increasingly unaccompanied minors come to our country; we must ensure that the system is not abused. The largest group is in good faith, but a significant part is in bad faith. We must therefore have the courage to recognise that we have a problem there because our extra protection, extra guidance and separate care for these minors make it possible to say that they are underage more quickly. I believe that we are at an impasse there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. The details indicate a number of guarantees for the benefit of minors. However, it is important to pay attention to the fact that these tests are based on European standards, whereas African standards are probably different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u6	Mr President, Minister, during the work of the Committee on the Interior on the study of a bill amending the law on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories of foreigners, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Franken, in essence, justified his measure by the fact that the justice system did not always demonstrate all due diligence in the pursuit of acts of serious violence or sexual violence in refugee reception centres. Mrs. Smeyers was also present. Such a lack of confidence in the functioning of the justice system in our country is probably not commonplace in the mouth of a member of the government, especially when the conviction accompanying them leads to the taking of legal measures depriving a part of the population of their rights, despite great reluctance on the part of the Council of State and negative signals from a liaison body of the European Union. This is an unusual situation, therefore, which brings several questions which I will categorize into four types. First of all, can you provide us with information on the number of reports of serious incidents of violence or sexual violence in refugee reception centres that were transmitted by the police to the prosecution service during 2015? Of these, how many were followed by the opening of a file? And in this number, how many have resulted in a conviction and how many have been dismissed? The acts referred to by Mr Franken are, by their nature and gravity, criminal offences which he intends to punish by administrative means because of the shortcomings of the judicial system. Are the most serious acts of violence and acts of sexual violence a priority within the meaning of the prosecution policy established in cooperation between you and the prosecution authorities? If so, do you consider that the rate of prosecution reflected in the answer to the previous questions adequately reflects the priority status of the continuation of these facts? Do you then agree with your colleague Franken? If you were to feel with him that these facts are not being prosecuted enough to provide a credible sanction for offenders, what human resources would you consider necessary to achieve a level of prosecution that is satisfactory in terms of the seriousness of the alleged facts? Finally, Minister, the Secretary of State points out that meetings are held between his services, the police and local authorities with regard to the treatment of public order issues related to the occupants of refugee centres. Are such meetings also held with the judiciary or with the services of your ministry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u7	Mr President, Mr Kir, in the General National Police Data Bank (BNG) the facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from the judicial and administrative police missions. It thus allows counting on different statistical variables, such as the number of recorded facts, the modi operandi, the destination of the place, etc. For the first three quarters of 2015, 17 incidents were recorded by the police in respect of offences against morals with the destination of the place: reception centre. This includes all types of cases, including indecent attacks, inciting debauchery files or public contempt of morality files. Police crime statistics for the full year 2015, including the fourth quarter, will be available in June. In the context of an oral question, I cannot normally allow a statistical analysis to be carried out on the basis of an extraction of the database of the public prosecutor's offices. Nevertheless, the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office assures me that physical violence and sexual violence are always treated by the Public Prosecutor's Office with the utmost seriousness and are indeed a priority of the prosecution policy, regardless of the context or place where they are committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u8	Minister, you can't give us any information about any convictions that may have taken place. It's too early in 2016. I can understand that. In relation to what your colleague has said, I have not heard any reply from you. Didn't you know?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u9	In general, I do not comment on what my colleagues are saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u10	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u11	Minister, the issue of juvenile delinquency is now more than ever on the agenda. This is not only about minors but also often about young adults. When a person at a young age, between 18 and 25 years of age, first comes into contact with the court and may have to serve a sentence, there is a chance that the young person may end up in a vicious circle, which is often called professionalism in crime. After all, we are dealing with a rather vulnerable group. More and more voices call for a specific approach for these young people, with the aim of ensuring that young people find the right path after a first misstep and do not criminalise further. I therefore have a number of questions, which I had first submitted in writing, because they did ask for some figures. However, since I did not receive the answer within the time limit, I converted the written question into an oral question. I understand, of course, that the question will have meant some research work for the services. Firstly, is it possible to give an overview of the number of 18 to 25-year-olds currently in prison, if possible from the last three years? Secondly, do you have any idea of the relapse rates in this group? Thirdly, can you tell me how many prisoners have a history of youth aid? Fourthly, is there a possible link between the relapse rates and a prior stay in Community institutions? If so, what exactly do you have at your disposal to demonstrate that connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u12	On 1 June 2016, 1 828 prisoners were registered between 18 and 25 years of age. I can't give you an overview of statistical age data for the past three years. The oldest figures date from April 2015. On 1 April 2015, 1 945 detainees were registered in the 18-25 year old age group. I would like to provide you with a summary table of the figures on the first of each month from 1 April 2015 until 1 June 2016. I do not have today an overall statistical overview of the relapse rates within this group of detainees. Nor do I have centralized data on the possible link between youth assistance and detention and the possible link between recidivism and the prior stay in a community institution. On behalf of the Flemish Community, the Vrije Universiteit Brussel conducted a scientific study on the link between criminal law and repeated crime, on the one hand, and youth protection law, on the other. The 2009 study focused on the relationship between first-placed delinquent young people and relapsed. In the meantime, there was a follow-up to this investigation. An important recommendation in the report is the recording of data and the linking of the different dates. The recommendations of these investigations are still being discussed this year by a working group of repeats within the IMC Justice Houses, in which all the Communities participate. The French Community also wants to carry out investigations into repeated cases. The importance of clear and qualitative registration for this age group is indeed high. I look forward with you to the results of the working party repeated within the IMC Justice Houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the figures I will look closely at. Those high figures from 1 800 to 1 900 in that age group quickly amount to one in five or one in six in that category. Are they convicts or are they also attached for the time being? Or wasn't that distinction made? Maybe it doesn't matter. The point is that they are young people who live in prison and end up in an environment where they can easily be influenced. That is an important point of attention. I am therefore pleased that scientific research is being carried out. The fact that you have to answer me that you have no data from the past shows that there is a gap there. If we are to have a good policy, it is important not only to know the figures, but also to carry out scientific research into the causes, the reasons and the best treatment methods. So I think it's good that there are investigations. Perhaps as a minister, for example through the Criminal Policy Office, you should also encourage further research. I believe that this can be a good basis for future policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u14	Minister, this is a very difficult problem. After the sham weddings and the sham cohabitations, which are perhaps a little easier to detect, we are now faced with a phenomenon which is not new but which is emerging, namely the false recognition via residence babies. The entanglement of the fight against marriages of convenience clearly paid off, but has creative, bad side effects. There are two kinds. A first species is a false recognition, in which a man acknowledges a child that biologically is not his child to help himself or the mother and the child to obtain a residence permit. However, there are also variations on the theme, which are located in a greyer zone. A false recognition is also possible by the real biological father. In that case, he will only father a child for the purpose of a residence permit and therefore for the sole purpose of residence. The latter happens with or without the knowledge or consent of the mother. On the other hand, there is also the position of the victims, initially the child itself. If the mother is in good faith, the mother is also a victim of that motive, if that is the only motive. That is the problem, however. A false recognition is very difficult to detect. Only the outliers float upstairs. The evidence is also very difficult and very delicate. Officials of civil status and also the public prosecutors currently have very few legal grounds or means to act against the phenomenon. You have already indicated that you are working on a draft law to restrict criminal recognition. Mr Minister, does your draft law also contain possibilities not only to sanction, but also to detect and signal more effectively, for example by placing the burden of proof on the applicant or the connoisseur? Do you foresee a differentiation in the legislation, namely, on the one hand, cases of alleged recognition, where a man is not the biological father and, on the other hand, cases of sincere but in intent fraudulent recognition, where a man is the biological father, but the child merely conceived to obtain a residence permit? Would you like to give a civil servant the power to refuse or withdraw recognition? Is it also intended to allow the public prosecutor to take more active action in the event of false recognition? We must always keep the balance. We can, on the one hand, punish the evil intention, but, on the other hand, there is always a child and, consequently, a family and a family involved in the matter. Do you envisage the possibility of safeguarding the rights of the child and the mother in the event of her being in good faith?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u15	The previous speaker outlined the problem. A concrete example that we could hear through the East Flemish parish, Minister, concerns an Angolan man, who has managed to recognize 17 children in 16 different women in 17 different municipalities. It was about getting all these foreign women into paperwork. The opposite also happens, of course, namely fathers who often choose psychologically or intellectually fragile women who are susceptible to manipulation and leave them in the delusion that they aspire to a real relationship. Once a child is conceived, they apply for recognition of that child only in order to obtain a right of residence. The civil servant must automatically approve that question. In the other cases, too, there is no or little means to detect false recognition so far. Since 2014, in Ghent alone several dozen cases of false recognition have been passed on to the public prosecutor, but so far there has been no verdict, precisely because the local authorities are really struggling with the phenomenon. They do not have enough legal means to check the sincerity of recognition. A DNA test is not allowed and home visits to verify that the partners are effectively living together are not possible. Measures are needed to prevent shopping between different municipalities. At the very least, it is necessary for the information to be passed on to all civil servants in Belgium, as is currently the case for bogus marriages and bogus cohabitation. My specific questions are about the draft bill that would be in the process, Minister. When can we expect the bill here? When will it be dealt with here? When will the law have to enter into force? Is there a system in the draft law to prevent shopping at different municipalities? If so, what system? Does the draft law provide for compulsory DNA testing and for home visits? Will the draft law require civil status officials to treat as suspect any recognition of a baby involving a parent who does not have a valid or only a temporary residence status? What punishment will you provide for for those who try to get residence papers through a residence baby? Is the nullity of the recognition sought? Is the unsub being deported? Is he getting a restraining order? I know I'm not supposed to look at intentions, but what measures are you considering in this respect? Do you agree that a stricter law on family reunification should also be introduced in order to prevent these practices, in particular by increasing the period of authorisation to reside indefinitely in our country before family reunification is possible? I would have liked to know your opinion on this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u16	Minister, the urge to obtain a residence permit in Europe is apparently so great for some people that they do not prejudice anything to get it, even if it is at the expense of someone else. In the first phase we saw that the victims were the partners, the man or woman they married because they knew that was the only way to our country. Indeed, it is only as a recognised refugee or through family reunification that we can come to Belgium for good. Family reunification is possible both through marriage and through legal cohabitation. The legislator has rightly reacted strictly to abuses in this area by adopting in 2013 the law on marriages of convenience and cohabitation and by tightening the provisions relating to family reunification, including the increase in the control period from three to five years. Apparently it has been understood that there is a risk that one may have to leave the country if one no longer lives together. So, not only do some people go through a sham marriage, they also beget a child to make sure that they can stay. Others have realised that one does not even have to marry, but that it is enough to father or even recognise a child alone. So there are plenty of possibilities. It may be a man who begets a child with a Belgian woman or a woman with a residence permit. It may be that a man recognizes a woman's child that is not biologically his. It can also be the other way around, because we only talk about men, as if they were just criminals. They may also be women without papers or in precarious status who have their child recognised by a Belgian man or a man with a residence permit, or who are getting pregnant in order to be able to stay here. Thus men are sometimes victims and sometimes recognize a child of a woman, because they think it is their great love. Very often it happens from a certain naivety. Rarely will both parties pay for such services. The phenomenon has existed for a long time. I've been getting signals about that for a long time, including from people around me. Recently, 19 Brussels ships made the alarm. We have also noted that efforts are also being made in Ghent. The parquet of East Flanders has sent a circular which is applicable in all East Flanders cities and municipalities, to combat false recognition. This has led the civil servant in East Flanders, if he has serious doubts, to refuse the recognition of the child. The parquet can also claim the destruction of an existing recognition. Minister, I realise that it is a difficult problem to understand, partly because victims are ashamed and not always report or complain. Some victims will only know afterwards that they have been duped and will still have a pv drawn up for fake recognition. I myself know a number of victims who have done so. Unfortunately, they are not always right. In light of that, how many cases have you known in the last five years? How many reports of suspicious acknowledgments did the parole board receive? In how many cases has this led to a refusal of recognition? In how many cases was an existing recognition destroyed? Do you see an increase in the number of files? Where are you on the preparation of your draft law to address the problem? You've been working on it for a while, because the file is also quite complex. What solutions do you want to offer? How do you evaluate the working methods of the parquet of East Flanders? I'm talking about the letter. Have similar initiatives been taken in other judicial districts? Can there be more uniformity across the country? Can a letter be sent, pending final legislation, which can enter into force as soon as possible, so that there is more uniformity for the whole of the Belgian territory and there is also vigilance for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer will also be long. As I said in committee at the beginning of April, I am very aware of the seriousness of the problem. In my policy paper of November 2015, I indicated that, by combating better marriages of convenience and cohabitation, the abuses are now occurring in the field of the false recognition of children with the sole aim of obtaining the right of residence. It is a complicated problem, because there is always a child involved. Officials of civil status do not currently have a specific legal basis for refusing false recognition. However, the public prosecutors do try to act by making use of the public policy provision in Article 138a (1) of the Court's Code in order to have false recognitions destroyed. It followed and continues to follow that, since there is no specific legal basis, I also do not have any figures on the phenomenon of false recognition. The District Court of East Flanders is now trying to standardise the working methods within its jurisdiction, and this anticipates the draft law which, as I will explain in a moment, goes in the same direction. I have no knowledge of other similar teachings in other jurisdictions. However, given the state of the law at present, the approach will depend to a large extent on the final assessment by the judges. My priority is to take legislative action here as soon as possible. I also informed at the beginning of April that, together with the Secretary of State responsible for Asylum and Migration, I had prepared a draft law on which the opinion was requested from the College of Attorney General, the associations of civil society officials, the Foreign Affairs Office and the Foreign Affairs Office. During April I received the last advice. My administration then largely adapted the draft to the legal and technical comments made in the various opinions. In addition, several suggestions were made in the opinions, which are currently being examined and discussed with the State Secretary responsible for Asylum and Migration, for example on the decoupling of pedigree and residence. This means that the pedigree can be established, but that the right of residence is not granted in the event of false recognition. The purpose of the false recognition is not achieved, but the child and the other parent may enjoy the rights attached to the establishment of the lineage. The draft is based on the arrangement for marriages of convenience and cohabitation. In general terms, the civil status official may suspend the preparation of the instrument of recognition and, where appropriate, refuse it. The parquet will also be able to perform actively. The civil servant may ask for the advice of the public prosecutor, but the public prosecutor will also be able to claim the nullity of a false recognition. The appearance of the public prosecutor will enable similar investigations to be conducted as in marriages of convenience, including police investigations with home control. In the event of a suspicion of false recognition, the burden of proof should lie with the person concerned and at the same time a test of the best interests of the child should be opened. As far as shopping is concerned, a first measure has already entered into force. Since 1 January 2016, the ascendents in the first degree and the descendants are mentioned in the first degree in the National Register, the population register and the alien register. This gives all civil servants useful information for the fight against false recognition. In addition, the Schijn wedding database will have to contain data on false recognition, which will share the information between all civil servants. A final possible measure is the limitation of the territorial competence of the civil status official in respect of accreditations. The question of DNA research and of whether or not to treat the recognition differently depending on whether or not there is a biological link is the most complex. The Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights have already issued several judgments on the right of descent. It is clear from those judgments that neither social nor biological reality in itself can constitute an absolute element in determining whether or not to establish the origin. There is always a need to make a specific assessment. A DNA test will therefore not provide conclusive evidence, especially if it is considered that there may also be false recognition in the case of a biological bond. The fact that there is no biological bond does not automatically mean that there is a false recognition. Moreover, many children are recognised by parents who are not biological parents, even if there is no right of residence in the game. I am currently working with the Secretary of State on the draft law, and we will present it to the government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed but quick answer. It would be good to get your answer on paper, if only to know the content of the draft law. You referred to the parish of East Flanders, which precedes your bill. I hope that all the officials of the various towns and municipalities of East Flanders and of the whole country will act in a uniform manner, because that is where the crux of the matter lies. There is an alert or less alert civil servant. Depending on this, reservations are made more quickly. If reservations are made, there are now very few means to confirm the suspicion of bad faith in the short term. At the same time, the extent of your answer outlines the complexity of the story. After all, there is, on the one hand, the biological and, on the other hand, the sociological aspect, namely the possession of state. Someone's acting like a father or not. Relevant questions are then asked, as in a marriage of convenience. The questions in a marriage of convenience must show whether the partners have an effective love relationship. In the case of false recognition, these questions must show whether the parent actually has that possession of the State in relation to the child in question. In fact, as soon as a civil status official makes a reservation, an investigation into paternity should be initiated immediately. However, I do not know whether the public prosecutors would be satisfied if, in any case of doubt, an investigation into paternity would be carried out immediately. However, I believe that this would be the ideal situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u19	Oh, dear the father.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u20	Oh, charm the parquets, I guess. However, Minister, we look forward to the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u21	Minister, I would like to thank you for your detailed answer. It was a comprehensive answer, because I got an answer to almost all the questions, like my questions about nullity, shopping and the DNA test. I do not think I have received an answer to my question about house visits. However, I will be able to read it in the draft law. After all, according to what I have heard, if the opinions are processed, the draft is in a final stage. Hopefully we will be able to expect it soon in the Justice Commission. It's urgent, too. After all, the civil servants in question need more opportunities and resources to detect the problem in an appropriate way. Not only civil servants but also public prosecutors can tackle the problem in a uniform manner. It is true that you have not given any figures because it is not recorded as such in the statistics. However, when we hear the alarm signals from Brussels and Ghent, there is no denying that there is a very large shift from marriages of convenience and the appearance of living together to babies' homes. It's a very worrying phenomenon. Little children are the victims of this. Very often also the mother, but also sometimes the father remains in good faith with a baby. These are very poignant cases, which should be dealt with as soon as possible. So I look forward to the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u22	Mr Minister, I would like to repeat that the problem really does manifest itself in both sexes. It's not just fathers who get women pregnant for the residence permit. The opposite is also happening: women are getting pregnant or getting their child recognised, where the man is the victim. It is important to check whether there is a false recognition or a residence allowance, as soon as there is a right of residence benefit. In all other cases, when it comes to the recognition of a child between two people who already have a residence permit in our country, it is obviously not important to check that again. Moreover, we do not do this when living together in law; in that case we only check whether there can be abuse for the benefit of a right of residence. This is about children who are recognized or even conceived purely and solely for the purpose of residence papers. Later explain to a child that his father was only after a residence permit and not on contact with the child. There is already a great deal of abuse. Those who commit the abuses go even further. They also know that they're checking to see if there's a connection to that kid. They are judges who have to rule on that. Some even begin to collect certain evidence in advance. A few weeks ago, there were hearings here that dealt with residence babies. For example, there was the story of a man who had premeditatedly been collecting cash tickets from the purchase of diapers to prove, after the couple broke up, that he had taken care of the child. It will not be easy, but it is really important that we distinguish and separate the right of residence from the recognition of a child. I'm not saying they're not real fathers or real mothers. Many are probably the biological fathers or mothers of those children, but the children were conceived because of a residence permit. These cases must be removed and it must be said that it is not in the best interests of the child that the parent should be granted a residence permit. You have not answered the question as to whether it is possible to produce a debrief which may apply throughout Belgium. Is it coming or not? We have such a letter now in East Flanders, but not in the rest of the country. Or would you like to wait until the design arrives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u23	Question No 12026 by Mr Denis Ducrame is transformed into a written question Debates of the European Parliament 12006 by Mrs Sophie De Wit will be converted into a written question. The agenda now includes three merged questions on the Constitutional Court's ruling on the buy-back law. Mr Van Hecke is present to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u24	Minister, since 2011, the law on the extended friendly settlement has allowed suspects to settle with the prosecution in certain cases. In a recent judgment last week, the Constitutional Court states that that law is contrary to the Constitution. In the Court's view, the fact that the court can only examine a settlement in the light of a number of formal conditions of the law cannot be considered. According to the Constitutional Court, a judge should also be able to assess the extended amicable settlement on the substance and, if he or she sees reasons for doing so, may nevertheless decide not to accept the amicable settlement. Thus, according to the Constitutional Court, the judge can and must carry out an opportunity test. The judgment expressly does not work with retroactive effect, as the Constitutional Court ruled, but applies as soon as it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. As soon as that happens, therefore, no settlement will be possible without a judge deciding on the content of the deal. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. First of all, what's your response to that arrest? Secondly, would you like the law to be amended? If so, what adjustments will you propose? Thirdly, when can we expect a regulation or a proposal? Fourthly, will the evaluation of the extended friendly settlement made by the Criminal Policy Office in June 2014, on which I have already questioned you earlier and on which I received the report, finally be made public? Apparently, that's the most secret report ever drawn up. I got it and I didn't give it to the press, but it seems to have gotten into the media by other means. The essence of the criticism of the law is that it is not transparent. Even an investigation into the implementation of that law is not available to people of justice because it is so secret. The lack of transparency is embedded in the law and in the evaluation. That is why my final question is: can there be a little more openness, especially in view of the judgment of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u25	Mr Van Hecke, the Constitutional Court has essentially ruled that, once the criminal proceedings have been brought, either because the case has been investigated or after referral to the court of judgment, a marginal review of the formal conditions by the court cannot be sufficient. According to the Court, Article 216a (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure infringes Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, read in conjunction with the right to a fair trial and with the principle of judicial independence, in so far as the public prosecutor is authorised to put an end to the criminal proceedings already instituted without effective judicial review of the proportionality and legality of that settlement by means of an amicable settlement. The Court also states that the public prosecutor must justify his decisions to conclude an amicable settlement. The judgment shall apply on the date of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Therefore, caution should be exercised in the current transaction files in which the criminal proceedings were already initiated. It therefore seems appropriate to refer the pending cases in cases where the criminal proceedings are already pending and where the amicable settlement has already been paid to the court or to the court or tribunal for the purpose of determining the lapse of the criminal proceedings. On the other hand, retention is required when new settlements are concluded. The criminal justice expertise network of the College of Attorneys General is currently examining the issue and has a new letter ready. I am also planning a legislative amendment on this subject within the framework of the Fourth Potpourri Act, which will shortly be submitted to Parliament. We will discuss within the government in what way we will amend the law to bring it into line with the new case law of the Constitutional Court. As far as the statistics requested by Mr Gilkinet are concerned, unfortunately I must reply that I have not yet received a new global report. The College of Attorneys General informs me that at present only a few jurisdictions have reliable figures due to persistent registration problems. These should be promptly resolved by means of the new circular. It will then be possible to have a correct recording and measurement. However, I continue to stress this issue because transparency, also in the area of the application of the extended transaction, is fundamental to ensuring confidence in our rule of law. In this sense, I also consider that the first, and for the time being the only, evaluation report on the application of the extended transaction must be made public. This must be done with the necessary contextualization, since the report only dealt with the first quantitative and qualitative assessment at which the data were recorded in various ways and with judges questioned personally. I shall therefore refer again to the College of Attorneys General. With the new circular, follow-up will also be given to the recommendations made in this first report and the ongoing evaluation of the guidelines, namely the merger of the transaction guidelines (COL1/2011) and the extended transaction guidelines (COL6/2012).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that caution is needed today. You are right, but I am surprised unless I have misunderstood you that you say that the pending files are best presented as soon as the payment has already been made. That is a bit bizarre, because the Constitutional Court states that from publication onwards one can no longer do it in the classic way with a test. A substantive test must be carried out by the judge, while you give the message to do it as soon as possible and you hope that it will take a while before the judgment is published in the Belgian Official Journal. You are asking to ensure that everything is settled before publication in the Belgian Official Journal. I hope, Minister, that the judgment will be published soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u27	(...) if you have been paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u28	If we have been paid, it is not a problem for us that it is a good thing for the Belgian State. I also note that you will make legal adjustments through potpourri IV, of which note. However, we have tabled a legislative proposal for a longer time. You can do that very quickly. We have added a few other entanglements. We are therefore always prepared to submit our texts for approval. That can go pretty fast. In any case, we are looking forward to the evaluations and the statistics that Mr Gilkinet had already asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I have recently asked Mr Jambon about the issue of controlling access to major events, such as festivals, by guarding companies. Indeed, with the threat of terrorism, there has been a demand to strengthen and systematize controls with a view to ensuring the security of all. A circular was recently adopted by the Interior. It relaxes the very strict conditions to which the excavations were subjected. According to the law, officers may search only if it is established that the persons present are in danger and there are presumptions that an individual could carry a weapon or hold a dangerous object. Even in this case, the search cannot be systematic. It is clearly forbidden to search individuals one by one; valid reasons are required. Guardianship companies are currently subject to complaints and sanctions if they have to apply measures prohibited by law. It is in this context that Mr Jambon has announced a private security bill, in which the powers of security officers, among other things in terms of searches, will be reviewed. This text, announced this summer, will give security officers more powers in this area. Minister, does the circular that eases the conditions of the search protect custodians from a strict interpretation of the provisions of the Act? Can you provide us with more information on the motivations of this law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Blanchart, the private security bill is currently being reviewed by the government. Once this stage has been reached, a decision will be taken in the Council of Ministers. Until then, I will refrain from commenting so as not to disrupt the smooth running of the discussions. If you have any other questions about this bill, you can still speak to my colleague who has jurisdiction in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u31	Minister, thank you. I understand your answer very well, but I draw your attention to the need to pay attention to this problem. Indeed, many security officers have been arrested and need information about their sentences, sometimes very heavy. They obviously want to know whether this sanction is still valid. We will therefore await the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u32	Question No 12088 by Georges Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u33	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns a subject that has been topical several times in the past year, namely the aggressive advertising methods used by betting, gambling and gambling providers vis-à-vis potential customers. My question is, of course, prompted by the problem of poverty resulting from this because people are addicted to gambling. In November 2015, you first indicated your intention to take action against these aggressive forms of advertising. You announced a ban on such advertising messages by eight o'clock in the evening. In January 2016, the story of an Antwerp man who had received a container of mails was published in various media because he had stopped gambling. The methods are also less subtle. Today, the Napoleon Games entered the football world. They are considered a normal sponsor of the Pro League. People are literally invited to gamble before and during the live broadcast or during the game. In this respect, I was informed of your question to the Pro League, to draw up, together with the Gaming Commission and the Jury of Ethics in advertising, a covenant on advertising messages and campaigns relating to gambling and gambling. My questions are as follows. Firstly, what objectives do you intend to set for the Gaming Commission in relation to the Covenant? What should the covenant lead to? What specific instructions have you given to the Gaming Commission and the Ethical Practice Jury on advertising? Second, the first meeting took place on 25 February 2016. What was discussed at that meeting? Have there been any meetings in the meantime? What is the current state of affairs? Finally, what other initiatives will you take against aggressive advertising of sports gambling? What's the status? Which partners are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I asked the Gaming Commission to work on advertising rules to limit the proliferation of advertising in the gambling sector. In the first instance, a covenant was thought of, by analogy with the alcohol agreement. To this end, the Jury for Ethical Practices on Advertising was called upon. A relapse solution, if a covenant does not offer a solace, is that by royal decree regulatory action would be taken. The first meeting with the parties concerned took place on 19 January 2016. At that time, the draft covenant drawn up by the Gaming Commission was submitted to the parties concerned for comments, namely the gambling sector, the aid, the Family Union, Test-Achats, Pro League and the media. The weeks following this meeting it was also possible to make comments to the Gaming Commission. After integrating the comments received, a second meeting was held on 16 February in which the amended draft Covenant was presented. There was no agreement at the end of the sitting. A further consultation took place on 25 February, this time at the initiative of the gambling industry itself. In the meantime, the sector had developed its own code and submitted it for its opinion to the JEP, the Jury for Ethical Practices on Advertising. The proposal of the sector was effectively discussed within the JEP Management Board, but it was decided not to take a position as long as there was no consensus between the parties. The strength of a covenant is only there when the parties concerned agree with each other. However, the JEP itself is one of those parties, rather than it deserves to decide which code is used. Since a covenant is auto-regulatory, the parties must reach an agreement among themselves. Although the Gaming Commission may plan meetings and formulate proposals, it cannot, in the case of a covenant, determine or require parties to join the story. Where a covenant is based on an agreement and the goodwill of the parties involved, and operates auto-regulatoryly, an KB has a much more compelling character. A KB is legally enforceable for all parties and therefore the parties concerned do not have to reach an agreement on its content. That is why I asked the Gaming Commission to draw up a draft of KB. It was first submitted for an opinion at the meeting of the Gaming Commission on 13 April. Advertising rules through a KB apply to licence holders and to the National Lottery, as far as betting is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u35	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I see you're going through with it. If no solution is found through consultation, work will be done on a KB. You didn't actually say anything about the contents of the Royal Decree. Or can't you tell me now? [[No.]] I will put a question to you later to go into more detail. In any case, congratulations on your perseverance in this matter. In my view, this is a very important issue that concerns a lot of people. In my opinion, the basis for support is growing because the problem is getting through to football and is being regarded as a normal matter, whereas it is not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u36	Questions Nos 12144 and 12166 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u37	Mr President, Minister, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in a recent judgment, following the Bondavalli case in Italy, that, after divorce, the reunification of the disowned parent and the children must take place much faster, since time can cause irreparable damage to the relationship between the two. Article 8 of the Convention was considered to have been infringed. Article 8 defines what is to be understood by the right to respect for private, family and family life. Since an infringement was found, Article 41 of the Convention also applies. In short, this means that the Court may require a Member State to pay compensation to injured parties. The judgment also states that Member States must take their own measures to reunite parents and children as quickly as possible, even if both parents are in conflict with each other. I would have liked to ask the following questions. Are measures envisaged to ensure, in the event of parental withdrawal, as soon as possible a reunification between the rejected parent and the child? If so, what measures? If not, will you plan there? Is there a forwarding letter on the agenda? If so, in what sense? Have you heard of convictions in this matter by the European Court of Justice against Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the current legislation already contains a number of means at the disposal of the courts to intervene in the event of difficulties in complying with the residence scheme. The court may intervene at the level of parental authority and may impose coercive measures in the event of non-compliance with the residence scheme in accordance with Article 387a and 387b of the Civil Code. In addition, the judge also has the possibility to have the necessary investigations carried out, such as a social investigation or a psychomedical investigation. I would also like to draw attention to the importance of neutral visitor rooms, which are designed precisely to enable the normal exercise of the right of personal contact in problematic cases. Furthermore, there is the possibility for the court to change its interpretation of classical judicial expertise, with the aim of achieving a restoration or strengthening of the parental relationship, under permanent judicial control. There is, of course, also the criminal part, with Articles 431 and 432 of the Criminal Code, concerning the non-giving of children. The most important thing, however, is to try to get the parents back to match and work together. I am thinking primarily of the role of mediation. With the introduction of the family court, mediation and other alternative means of amicable resolution of conflicts were given an important role. The parties are informed about these possibilities and the courts may allow and encourage parties to conclude agreements. The approach to parental exclusion is on the political agenda. It goes without saying that cooperation with the Communities, which are responsible for youth protection, will take place. Good cooperation between the Departments of Justice and Welfare is required in order to address the problem of divorces in an integral way. The Flemish Forum on Child Abuse, an advisory and consultation body established on the basis of the Protocol on Child Abuse Justice-Wellness of 2010, has recently provided a policy advice on fighting divorces, which also addresses the theme of parental deprivation and contains several recommendations. The approach to fighting divorces was also included in the new National Action Plan on Gender-based Violence 2015-2019. Cooperation with associations seeking to re-establish contact between children and older people can certainly be considered, but should be considered together with the Communities. At the moment I have no knowledge of Belgium's convictions by the European Court of Human Rights in this matter. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the joint circular COL4/2006, renewed in December 2015, of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General on criminal policy on partner violence. This letter already contains directives on the non-release of children. It is one of the innovations in the circular COL4/2006 that more attention will be paid to the protection of the children and that there will be more cooperation between the correctional parquets, the youth parquets and the family courts. The aim is to bring civil, protection and criminal proceedings closer together. For this purpose, a new checklist has also been added as an annex to the re-transmit letter, which includes a sort of checklist for police and prosecutors at the initial findings and further follow-up of such files. Thus, cases of parental deprivation are currently treated as a form of partner violence, but the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse has also ruled that divorces of combat, including matters of parental deprivation in particular, can be considered as a form of child abuse. It is clear that these are very complex facts and that the best interests of the child must remain at the forefront. It is currently being examined whether it would be appropriate to issue new directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answer. It is true that there are civil coercive measures and that there are also possibilities in criminal matters to punish the parent who is guilty of parental deprivation, but in such cases, of course, evil has already happened. Your December 2015 letter, to which you refer, is, of course, also a very good step, but that too is to punish after the facts, so if evil has happened, both for the child and for the parent. Last weekend another painful incident was announced of a family drama in Flobecq, where a father killed his fourteen-year-old son and subsequently himself because of facts that tend towards parental deprivation, where we can regard those involved as victims. I will certainly look into the recommendations of the Forum. I note that this issue is also on the political agenda, both with you and with the Communities. I think a lot of people are victims of the fact that the child is used as a toy ball in combat divorces. I fear that the importance of the child, which should always prevail, is just lost in the event of parental withdrawal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u40	Minister, if a parent subject to maintenance does not pay the child's alimony, the Alimentary Claims Service (DAVO) may be called in under certain conditions. The DAVO can claim the monthly maintenance fee and, of course, the arrears from the creditor and may also pay advances on the monthly maintenance fee. If the debtor resides abroad, the DAVO may also be invoked. However, where the creditor has no income in Belgium, the FPS Justice should cooperate with the foreign authorities of the country where the ex-partner has established himself. The DAVO is therefore at that time dependent on the effectiveness of the foreign authorities and their goodwill to cooperate, as well as that of the debtor himself. I have the following questions. Is there a procedure for recovering child support abroad? If so, how does that happen? What problems are identified? How many positive results have been achieved each year over the last three years? What's the amount on the other side? Are there any differences in recovery within and outside the European Union? Does the action of two different federal administrations, namely Justice and Finance, make it difficult to recover?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u41	Mrs Uyttersprot, on the procedure for recovering maintenance abroad, a distinction should be made between the requested and requesting countries within and outside the Union. As regards the requested and requesting countries within the Union, the maintenance Regulation 4/2009 of 18 December 2008 provides for the initiation of a procedure for the recovery of alimony abroad through the intervention of the FPS Justice, which cooperates with the central authorities of the other Member State. As regards the requested and requesting countries outside the Union, the New York Convention of 20 June 1956 on the collection abroad of maintenance benefits, or the Hague Convention of 23 November 2007 on the international collection of maintenance for children and other family members may do so, depending on the place of residence of the debtor. The submission of the file to the central authority of the requested Member State requires a number of documents and forms for each of the three legal instruments, which I will not list further here. Upon receipt and after verification of completeness, the file shall be delivered to the designated central authority for further effect. All further communication on the current files shall always take place between the central authorities. The Regulation offers wider scope than the New York Convention to allow the recovery of maintenance payments abroad and aims primarily to facilitate the formalities for the enforcement of decisions and to reduce the costs involved. To that end, the central authorities shall be asked to assist creditors and maintenance agents in asserting their rights in another Member State by submitting applications for recognition, declaration of enforceability and enforcement of judgments given, amending such decisions or obtaining a decision. For this purpose, the central authorities work together and exchange information. However, when dealing with files, problems are identified in relation to the translation of correspondence and/or statements of parties into judicial proceedings, with delays in replies because the applicant does not always provide an answer or with files in which the debtor does not cooperate in recovery, for example through the declaration of inability to act. The problems encountered in the files within and outside the European Union are broadly the same. The Belgian central authority is unable to provide figures on the amounts recovered annually by creditors, inter alia because these amounts are paid directly by the debtors and are not delivered via the central authority. The intervention of two different federal administrations in the recovery questions does not make this method of recovery difficult. The Belgian central authority has good contacts with the other central authorities, on the one hand, and with the DAVO, on the other. Meetings with the DAVO shall be held on a regular basis. Representatives of the two federal administrations attended the preparatory meetings for the entry into force of the maintenance regulation, which entered into force on 18 June 2011. Furthermore, exchanges of information between file managers relating to individual files are carried out on a regular basis. It is also foreseen that an attaché of the Belgian central authority will be engaged for a few days in the operation of the DAVO with the aim of exchanging knowledge and providing training to the file managers. Afterwards there will be a feedback link with the staff of the central authority with a view to further improving good contacts and working methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u42	Mr Minister, I will read your answer again, because all the regulations and treaties you have mentioned are not immediately part of the standard of parate knowledge. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u43	Then we come to question No. 12174 by Mrs Uyttersprot, on free legal aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u44	Mr President, that question may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u45	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u46	Mr President, Minister, at the end of last year we learned that there would be a third forensic psychiatric centre in Hofstade near Aalst, which would be operational by 2019. During hearings under potpourri III and all that has been addressed in the field of internment, the need for more high-security centres was questioned by a number of people. Given the flow in the forensic psychiatric centers, there seems to be a high need for other facilities, such as for the care of interns with mental disabilities, interns with addiction problems and the like, but not high security. Minister, how do you feel about the fact that there is less need for high-risk institutions, assuming that the centre in Antwerp will be operational by then? Is there any consideration of a facility other than high risk at the same location? Will 2019 remain the target date for the entry into service of this centre? Apparently, originally a capacity of three hundred interned was provided. Apparently, that number is not retained. For what reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the nuclear cabinet gave its agreement in principle on Friday 13 May on the new modified Master Plan III. This is an agreement in principle, the overall vision of which is based on a number of pillars, including the Master Plan for Internalisation, which has been worked out together with the Minister for Health. The plan is to provide an adapted infrastructure for each interned person, with on the one hand a number of projects and extensions in the existing care circuit and, on the other hand, the construction of three new FPCs, in particular in Aalst, Paifve and Walloon Brabant. The practical implementation of these centres and their concept will now be further developed through a working group. I can assure you that the various projects of the Master Plan Internalisation are based on the real needs that exist today on the ground. For this reason it will become a centre with 120 places. You wonder why the number has fallen from 300 to 120 places. However, it was never intended to build a psychiatric center with 300 places. In the past, however, the slope was explored to build a prison in the legal sense of the word, with just over 400 places, but that slope was abandoned and is independent of the establishment of a center for internees. The whole is now being converted into a concrete dossier, which must be submitted to the Council of Ministers with all the details and timing. I must await the approval of the Council of Ministers in order to know the form of implementation and the exact timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to underline the importance of the matter and thank you for your commitment to interns. In the last two years, under this government, there has been a catching-up movement that could have started much earlier. Of course, if there is no longer a demand for high-risk sites, it would be a pity that there would be a lack of regular care and that we would have an oversupply. My question focused on that. However, you are now saying that the impact has yet to be looked at together with Health and I am confident that the course will continue as we have seen it so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u49	Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u50	Minister, with regard to the situation in prisons, you have announced the signing of a memorandum of understanding with four out of six unions. What does this protocol with the four unions provide for on 30 May? When will it be implemented and will it produce its effects? Since the conclusion of this protocol, have you had any contact with the non-signatory unions? Is the dialogue maintained? What measures have you taken to improve, in the short term, the conditions of detention of prisoners and to relieve prison staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u51	As regards the content of the memorandum of understanding which I have concluded with part of the trade union representation, I should like to refer you to the answer given to Mrs De Wit on 25 May last in connection with her question No 11798. The proposal submitted at that time was no longer amended. This protocol is of immediate application and will come out immediately. In this case, I refer to the recruitment procedures that were initiated directly upon the resumption of the selection procedures for the Selor. Tests will already be held in the week of 20 June for a total of 700 prison assistant places. Infrastructure work will also be continued and intensified. I have already had another meeting with the representatives of the unions last Wednesday, who did not sign the agreement. I talked to them. I'm always open to dialogue. In order to improve the living conditions of prisoners, extended prison leave was granted. I also gave prison principals the opportunity to use a catering service to provide hot meals. It is also ensured to organize regular showers and meadows as well as visits. I am pleased that several establishments that have not yet been able to plan visits since the start of the strike have been able to organise them this weekend. In order to ease pressure on staff, support was sought from the police, the defence, civil protection, the Red Cross and, in a limited number of cases, the fire department. They provide from the first to the last a magnificent work for which I would like to thank them very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic439x.u52	Minister, your answer does not call for a reply from me. I note that there are specific dates for commitments.
