ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u1	Questions No 7913 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and No 8906 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, after a long waiting period marked by very close negotiations involving the German management of the Audi Group, the management of the Forest site, the social partners and, of course, the federal government and the federated entities, the announcement of the continuation of the production activities was confirmed in the Brussels Region. In this regard, it has been officially announced that the electric car model known as "Q6 e-tron" should be produced on the Forest site, in accordance with an industrial agenda that should cover a period of 10 years from 2018. The outcome of this dossier is undoubtedly excellent news for our country and, in particular, for the 2,500 employees who are mainly active on the assembly lines, given the indirect positive effects on the economic growth of the three regions. Moreover, symbolically, it is also a message of weight for foreign investors after the crisis that we have experienced in recent weeks. Obviously, Prime Minister, you have been particularly involved in this issue and have not hesitated to wet your jersey for long months of negotiations, with the support of the federated entities, to support the Brussels candidacy. It must be noted that the situation was far from being gained because of the quality of the competing projects, particularly in Hungary and Spain. In order to take stock of this victory, I would like to ask you the following questions. What were the different advantages of the Belgian application submitted to the German management of the Audi company? Could you outline it for us? What guarantees have been acquired today, particularly in terms of technological investment and the maintenance of employment on the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u3	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the reforms that we have undertaken throughout the first year of this Parliament have certainly played a key role in the choice that was made by Audi Brussels. I am thinking of measures to promote the competitiveness of enterprises, particularly in terms of employment. In concrete terms, in the months preceding the decision taken by Audi Brussels, we had the opportunity to simulate the impact of all these measures on the production costs of the Brussels plant in the light of the investments made and the possible employment consequences. Among these provisions, and it must be said with great clarity, the index jump as well as the increase in the exemption from payment of the professional discount in terms of team and continuous work have certainly played a major role and weighed in the balance. As part of the federal government's fiscal shift, illustrated for example by the structural reduction in employer contributions, additional measures have a positive impact on Audi or other companies investing in new environmental technologies. I am thinking in this way of the high technology sector, which can thus benefit from an investment deduction. In addition to these structural federal provisions that attract potential investors, regional measures for the training and retraining of workers have been introduced. The management of Audi Brussels was able to demonstrate within the VW Group all the interest in confirming the production of vehicles, in particular of this electric car, on the Brussels site. I am delighted that, because what is interesting for the Audi Group is also interesting for other industrial groups, we can try to convince that such a group makes a choice in favour of Belgium. Production on the site currently accounts for between 2,400 and 2,500 jobs and the management of the Brussels plant has publicly committed to maintaining the level of employment. Negotiations are also under way between the management of Audi Brussels and the workers' representatives. I welcome the representatives of the workers of this company, who have played a crucial role in promoting social dialogue. As far as investments are concerned, an envelope of EUR 600 million has been mentioned. Applications for building permits have already been submitted to local authorities for the extension and adaptation of production infrastructures. Indirectly, these investments and jobs will have a significant impact on the Belgian economy, and Brussels in particular, since the workers of Audi live in the three regions of the country. The federal government has the ambition to make Belgium again attractive for industrial development and investment in general. It is the maintenance of our level of well-being and our long-term social system that is at stake. We will pursue our goal. We will maintain our course. We are therefore pleased that the first results are beginning to be visible, showing the confidence our country can create for investors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u4	Prime Minister, I welcome the answers you have just given us. Clearly, the courageous reforms undertaken by this government for more than a year have produced concrete results. I think everyone here can be happy about that. This symbolic case of Audi should probably bring other fine examples to our country. We can only encourage you in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u5	Question No 9128 by Mr Demeyer was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am delighted that you are here in committee. This is the first time that I have had the opportunity to question you in this context. Prime Minister, I would like you to give us some information about the Franco-Belgian summit held in Val Duchesse a few days ago. The aim of the summit was to establish avenues to address the potential shortcomings in Franco-Belgian organisation and coordination that would have allowed the jihadists to plan and carry out the attacks last November. Prime Minister, what do you draw from this Franco-Belgian meeting on the cooperation of our two countries in the fight against terrorism? Following this meeting, what steps could Belgium take to strengthen this cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, as my colleague said, you met with your French counterpart, Manuel Valls, at a summit on the fight against terrorism. So we were able to see a beautiful castle and fine ministers who wanted to discuss this issue! I hope that the objective of this summit is not limited to a communication operation, but that it will produce results on the ground. That said, you and your French counterpart have indeed mentioned certain points that you would like to present to your European counterparts. In particular, you mentioned your desire to improve the Schengen Information System (SIS), which contains data on a range of individuals suspected of criminal acts. As for the foreign fighters who are fighting in Syria, you would like to go further by setting up an exchange of biometric data in order to avoid falsification of identity papers. In addition, you both expressed satisfaction with the judicial cooperation between Belgium and France, following the attacks in Paris. This deserved to be clarified, especially after some comments made in the aftermath of the tragedy. However, as you said, this collaboration can be strengthened and improved. The French Prime Minister has announced the secondment of a liaison magistrate in Belgium. You both support the idea that there is a need for further harmonisation of terrorism measures at European level. For example, cooperation with different providers of telephone and internet services is discussed here. Finally, you intend to ask your European counterparts to speed up the entry into force of the NRPs, i.e. data on persons travelling by air, and to call for systematic control at the borders of the Schengen area. Mr Minister, I have just mentioned a few measures that you have put forward at the end of this Franco-Belgian summit; I suppose you will confirm them. Could you give me a slightly more complete report of this summit and of any other decisions taken there? How do you intend to deal with these measures in advance in order to find a solution with the other Member States, and to obtain support from them at any bilateral meetings? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. This meeting on 1 February was, I am convinced, an important moment to consolidate and deepen the fight, together with France, against terrorism. I will highlight a first point, which deserves to be stressed. We were accompanied by the Ministers of the Interior and Justice in the Belgian and French parts, but also by our security services: the Federal Prosecutor and the Paris Prosecutor, as well as the heads of the security and intelligence services. What concrete points have they been the subject of formal decisions and guidelines? Firstly, we have reviewed the entire investigative mechanism since we are conducting joint investigation units with France. We believe that this cooperation between services is effective. This was an opportunity to identify the positive points and to see those that can be improved on both sides. Hence the decision to use liaison officers more regularly, in France or Belgium, to facilitate the transmission of information. Indeed, our security services do not work in perfect mirror. There may be differences in the functioning of justice or security services in Belgium or France. Liaison officers could adjust the way we communicate with each other. This is a very concrete and operational element on which decisions have been taken. Secondly, we have addressed the whole area of anti-terrorism cooperation: justice, police, intelligence services and cross-border cooperation. Here are some concrete points. The exchange of information is crucial. We have made commitments, for example to better feed the SIS data banks in the Schengen area. We found that technical constraints were delaying or complicating the provision of data banks. Less than two weeks after the summit, the government took budgetary decisions to correct this technical constraint, particularly in appropriate IT investments. Thirdly, we have identified the dossiers that we want to support together at European level. For some, it is not a surprise, like the NRP, that needs to be implemented as quickly as possible. We also decided to advocate for more systematic data exchange platforms. Finally, here is an important point: for Belgium as well as for France, the desire remains to establish a systematic and compulsory control of travellers entering and leaving the Schengen area, whether or not they enjoy free movement. Efforts must be stepped up to ensure the rapid interoperability of European information systems in order to improve the effectiveness of controls. We also referred to the prospect of further strengthening the relations and exchange of information between the intelligence services of the countries concerned by radicalism and returns. We believe that it is essential to promote the strengthening of this multilateral cooperation between the intelligence services. Another concrete point that has been mentioned and addressed is the issue of encrypted telecommunications services. We have decided to work together to try to draw up concerted proposals on cooperation with the main providers of telephone and Internet services and on the harmonisation of European legislation in this field. We believe that private operators should be more mobilised in the case of investigation-related information. Another example of a topic addressed in a very concrete way is the financing of terrorism or arms trafficking, for which we must mobilize a great deal of effort in cooperation between us. Finally, I agree, this is not the simplest point. We have been facing new developments in recent years. This is the counter-radicalization and counter-speech strategy that can be pursued. There, we are well aware that we must look at the experiences in the different countries. It's not an exact science. It is necessary to determine how one can learn from one another on the subject. It was also decided to continue a number of exchanges in an attempt to develop the most effective strategies in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u9	Prime Minister, thank you for all this information. All these measures to strengthen cooperation seem to be extremely important and interesting. We will follow their implementation with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u10	Prime Minister, thank you for this information. This shows the relevance of holding this summit. I do believe that the fight against terrorism is not limited to a national level. You have set a good example here, but it is also at European level that all this will have to be carried. I imagine you will do that at the various councils. Likewise, your colleagues, both from the Foreign Affairs and the Interior, will also defend, at this summit and at the various summits in which they will participate, the measures that have been taken or, in any case, proposed. It must be a European response. This will only work if it is a European response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question relates to the German translation of safeonweb.be. There is a need expressed by the population of the region. The relevant regional ministers interviewed referred me to the federal level. Prime Minister, is there any plans to translate the mentioned site into German?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the aim of the Safeonweb.be website is to inform citizens as quickly and correctly as possible by giving them advice on cybersecurity and threats related to the use of new technologies or online security. It is therefore not so-called official and static information but rather advice to Belgian citizens and businesses. Information on the most recent threats should be made available on the website in a timely manner. This site is written in French and Dutch and, according to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, meets the requirements of the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters. In accordance with Article 40 of the above-mentioned Law, the opinions and communications which the central services make directly to the public are drawn up in French and Dutch. Therefore, the German translation of the site safeonweb.be is not legally required. However, I believe that consideration should be given to a translation, perhaps not systematic and complete, which would be quite burdensome, but at least the most important and relevant elements. I will ask my Chancellery to prepare an initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you. I appreciate this willingness to respond to a need expressed by the citizens of my region to have the essential information available in their language.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u14	Prime Minister, I come back to you as you have not yet spoken formally in the House about the ER, as you were not here in plenary to answer questions. Mrs. Galant responded to Mrs. Galant. She had said things on Tuesday afternoon and put forward the opposite on the following Thursday, arguing, as usual, that the members of the committee had misunderstood. I would point out that when we read the full report of the Committee on Infrastructure, we find that there was no communication error. It supported a new proposal announcing the death of the Walloon RER and the death of mobility to Brussels and thus the total isolation of Francophones. We didn't file a question. That's why I can question you today. It was not a Deputy Prime Minister who responded, but Mrs Galant. So it was a bit crazy to live something so rare: a minister who answered himself on the basis of a question addressed to a prime minister. Fortunately, mayors MR du Brabant Wallon woke up, like all the provincial agents, including my colleague Stéphane Crusnière, of course. This led you to make a communication to the media that the four-track RSP would be carried out under this government and that the government would find the funding to carry it out. So we forget the undersupply and go back to the original program. The Court of Auditors had just presented its report on the evaluation of management contracts. There is little discussion of the RER, but the report says that the intermediate programme described by Mrs Galant in committee for 35 minutes is totally inadequate in the light of the requirements of the 2003 Convention. In addition, not all poles, particularly economic poles, are accessible. The report also states on page 110: "The SNCB considers that the State has complied with its financial commitments", considerable commitments, and therefore the Court of Auditors considers that the previous governments have complied with these financial commitments in relation to the financing of the RER fund, which Mrs Galant challenged in committee. So, Prime Minister, I am addressing you because Ms. Galant's credibility is being questioned on this issue. It is no longer her that I ask for a formal commitment but for you. I will tell you everything from go, since I read the article this morning, Prime Minister: it is not a roadshow by Mrs Galant that we need. The roadshows of Mrs Galant who goes to the twenty-two stations with her little notebook to write down what's wrong! Except that she will solicit experts from Infrabel and SNCB, although they have a proper state of affairs or can dispose of it in any case, without Mrs Galant doing her little roadshow with the media accompanying her, probably in order to recover the file. That's not what we need. Mr Prime Minister, what I am asking you today is a clear commitment, here in Parliament, to the financial means that will be allocated to all the work, including the four-tracking, not the under-supply that is being renamed. So, I ask you for a timing, when the work will be done, who will carry it out, how... and, Prime Minister, these commitments for lines 161 and 124, I think you can do them. You will enter the budget conclave in March, if I have heard the media again. You will therefore have the opportunity during this budgetary conclave, instead of announcing another two and a half billion savings to SNCB and Infrabel, to specify how much you will provide the RER fund for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2020... All the work could then be done. So, Prime Minister, I come to my questions. Are you firmly and definitively committed to putting all of the 161 and 124 lines to four lanes? Are you firmly committed to having the federal government provide the necessary funds as early as March to carry out this vital work for mobility around and in Brussels? Are you firmly committed to ensuring that all RER work, including the four-track roll-out, is completed in 2025 as Ms Galant committed herself to it in her policy brief less than a year ago, at the end of last year? And do you undertake – I ask – that there be a monitoring every two months in the Infrastructure Committee with the RER cell, set up within the SNCB, with the engineers of the Infrabel and with the control of the Mobility FPS? You will understand, Prime Minister, that at some point trust is broken and that we therefore want Parliament to be able to play an active role in the implementation of the RSP. It is also about safeguarding all Francophones who have been totally weakened as a result of Ms. Galant's statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to highlight a first point in order to refresh the memory of all the members of this committee: I have spoken with great clarity in Parliament on the ER. I did it in plenary on 28 January. At the time the question was asked, I made it clear and immediately stated that I intended the RSP to be implemented as intended, i.e. four-tracking where this was provided for in the original conventions. Our excellent colleague, who sits on your right, can testify as he was actively present at this plenary session on 28 January. It's a first point I like to highlight. Unfortunately, the following Thursday I was, it is true, in London for an important conference on Syria. I think you will not blame me for representing Belgium at this important moment, also in view of the security and geopolitical issues that are directly related to it. That is why I was unable to answer last week, but I had answered the question that had been asked at the previous sitting. Second point. For clarity, I want to mention a number of retroacts in this RER file where everyone shares the same level of information on the subject. I will then answer the more political questions that you have rightly addressed. In 1993, the first studies on the development of a suburban rail offer in the Brussels Region - an RER offer - were launched. Two interim reports were then submitted to the public authorities in 1995 and 1998. On 11 October 2001 and 22 March 2002, the Federal and the Regions concluded two cooperation agreements and on 4 April 2003 a convention. These texts aim to implement the RER as an integrated and intermodal mobility solution within a 30 km Brussels-centered area. They shall in particular lay down the arrangements for pre-financing and four-tracking. All investments by Infrabel and SNCB must, with exception, respect the 60/40 allocation key. This also applies to RER investments in Wallonia and Flanders. This 60/40 regional allocation key began to be applied during the 1990s, although the first two management contracts concluded in the 1990s do not explicitly mention this. The first official definition of this key appears in the 2001 cooperation agreement, when Isabelle Durant assumed the responsibility in question. I quote the text: "With the exception of investments made in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region, investments in rolling stock and specific projects for which no key is applicable under the investment plan approved by the Federal Council of Ministers, the key to the budget allocation of investments is 60% for the Flemish Region and 40% for the Walloon Region. This key shall be respected for each calendar year between 2001 and 2012, in accordance with the forecast table set out in the Annex to this Agreement." The subsequent management contracts concluded in 2005 and 2008 all refer to this agreement. And the decision of the Council of Ministers on the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025 of the SNCB Group, in point 9.1.c, prepared by Minister Magnette and then by Minister Labelle, provides for the continuity of this principle. I quote: "The principle of a 60/40 allocation, year by year, for the programming of investments located respectively in the Flemish Region and in the Walloon Region remains applicable on the basis of the rules currently in force. The overall plan approved including the distribution proposed above for 2.5 billion respects this key." In concrete terms, compliance with the 60/40 key requires regular arbitrations in the choice of the priority of the work and in the timing of the work. I come here to an extremely important point. The RER fund is a share of investments in a much more global envelope, initially mobilised for SNCB infrastructure. To date, more than EUR 2 billion has been mobilised for the RER project, mainly for infrastructure works covered by the RER Convention and for a small part in rolling stock. I would point out that other investment choices were also made in each of the regions during the duration of the RER work, in particular the construction of new stations, which is part of the account taken of the 60/40 envelope. I quote the few stations concerned by rounding up the amounts: - Antwerp, EUR 1 billion; - Liège, EUR 500 million; - Mons, 250 million euros. As far as recent developments are concerned, everyone knows – and certainly those who have assumed political responsibility in recent years – that the financial envelope of the RER fund is insufficient to complete all the work expected. This is not an underfunding of the envelope. The federal government, step by step, funded it in accordance with the commitments. Simply, it cost more than we originally imagined. We agree. As a reminder, the RER programmes included in the cooperation agreement are structured as follows: Watermael-Schuman-Josaphat, four-lane line 161 between Watermael and the Louvain-la-Neuve bifurcation, four-lane line 124 between Uccle-Moensberg and Nivelles, four-lane line 50A between Brussels and Denderleeuw, Nossegem curve and a renovation of the railway stations on line 36. Today, it appears that much of the investment has been made on the lines between the Flemish Region and Brussels and on the Schuman-Josaphat link, which will normally be inaugurated in the coming months. There were significant delays on lines 161 and 124. These delays, coupled with funding problems, now make a necessary political decision on the subject of the completion of the RSP and its funding. In this context, the appropriate minister, as you know, is currently examining, in consultation with all the parties concerned, all the funding avenues to try to get closer as quickly as possible to the RSP offer as defined in 2003. We will therefore mobilize all our forces, with all the necessary creativity, so that credible funding avenues can be submitted to the government as soon as possible. I confirm what I said long before the media discussions on the subject, Ms. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u17	One doesn't prevent the other. As early as January 28, in the plenary of the House – I confirm, this has not changed from an iota – I stated that I intend to ensure that the government agreement that provides for the implementation of the RSP is respected. Yes, there is a funding problem. Yes, we have to find solutions. Yes, we have to work fast. I will therefore make every effort to ensure that, in the coming weeks, in the coming months, credible funding avenues on the subject are identified. But the truth has its rights. We inherit a situation that everyone measures, which everyone knew well before the parliamentary discussions of the last weeks. Truth has its rights. Choices have been made, validated by the boards of directors, in which some have chosen to make a station here and railway tracks there. Others have made different choices. That's the reality. Nevertheless, we are going to mobilize politically, and I hope to be able to count on Parliament's broad support to make this important infrastructure project a reality. I agree with you that what is essential is not so much party-to-party games, but that we are in a position, majority and opposition, in the coming weeks, to demonstrate that we can achieve this vital achievement for mobility in Brussels, around Brussels, and therefore also for the economic attractiveness of the country as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you. I know that you spoke in plenary on 28 January. However, on 4 February, the competent minister said the opposite of what you had explained – and the full report is true. It's not a communication operation. When we re-examined her, she repeated that the four-lane RER was abandoned. So who do you think? This is not the first time I have asked you about some of your ministers, hoping to hear a truth that is the only one. Indeed, they say everything and its opposite. Understand that this is not a political game! Please be aware that when the opposition reminds you that the Minister of Mobility has declared that the four-tracking in Wallonia was over, it does not participate in a media operation, but seeks to save a RER that is necessary for all Francophones and all Brusselsers. Like you, I consider it necessary to tell the truth. The truth is, on the 4th and 6th of February, the minister supported the opposite of what you said. I hope your version is the right one, minister, and I want to believe it. With regard to the 60/40 allocation key, the MR has participated in all governments since 1999...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u19	I have in mind some examples of governments since 1990 in which the MR has not participated!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u20	I was talking about the federal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u21	Be precise!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u22	Let's be relaxed, Prime Minister. Although the French-speaking parties agreed to discuss the 60/40 key again, you know that no coalition government in which you participated, as we did, managed to do so. If it is questioned today, so much the better! If it is multi-annual, as you say, so much the better! If the RER is extracted from this distribution, I also welcome it. But no one has done it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u23	But that's not one of my worries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u24	You mentioned the 60/40 key, which we know is unfavourable to Wallonia. According to the Court of Auditors, the RER fund has always been properly financed by previous governments. Therefore, I now ask you for a political gesture. You're going to participate in budget negotiations. Go ahead and say what the federal government is going to put on the table. I would remind you that even before Mrs Galant announced the end of the RER, the last three Walloon governments have always put this mode of transport as a priority. We can verify this by means of their notifications. I would also point out that Mr Magnette put 200 million euros directly on the table and, in so doing, sacrificed the station at Charleroi airport. But what he did was common sense. I would also like to remind you that Beliris will undoubtedly support the RER with money earmarked for Brussels. Two federated entities are making efforts, which they should not make special efforts in this context. I therefore hope that the federal government will take all its responsibilities very quickly to get us out of the impasse and send a positive message to all Brusselsers and Walloons in this country. Mr. Chair, I will table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u25	Mr President, I know that the last word is for Parliament, but I cannot allow any inaccuracies on the subject to persist. I have never said that a 60/40 key was being considered on a multi-year basis, even if it is true that today this key is being analysed on an annual basis. Mrs Lalieux, you seemed to indicate something else and to give me words that I did not make.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u26	Mrs Galant said that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u27	From my point of view, what happened, Mrs. Lalieux? In my view, in recent years, the problem was not an underfunding of the RER fund since the commitments made have been met. However, it is true that the RER costs more. This is not surprising, because environmental permit procedures, etc., have led to additional work, which I believe will not be challenged by anyone. The problem of underfunding is therefore the higher cost of building the ER. To this comes the fact – I want to be clear about it because it is important for everyone to become fully aware of it – that choices have been made, choices that have been validated by the various organs of the SNCB entity, including Infrabel in which the different formations are represented. If we consider these choices, we find that the RER represents a share of the investments within the framework of an overall envelope of Infrabel on which the 60/40 key is calculated. I just write down, and I don't want to argue – I beg you, believe me! – that in recent years, we have managed to build a station in Liège and Mons with amounts that far exceed the amount that is lacking to finalize the RER in Wallonia. This is reflected in the figures. I therefore ask everyone to show some modesty in the analysis of the file. Finally, I would like to add that I plead – Parliament will of course choose – that, when the question is put tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we should support the orientation proposed by Ecolo-Groen, which aims to ask the Court of Auditors to examine how the expenditure was carried out, within the framework of infrastructure, at the departure of the SNCB, and more particularly within the framework of the RER fund. I support and call on the majority to follow this reasoning, which calls on the Court of Auditors to clarify the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u28	Prime Minister, there are indeed choices, but the priorities have been set by the government, the Walloon government and the Brussels government. The ER has always been a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u30	Good thing you don't want to argue, Prime Minister! I agree that there is a report from the Court of Auditors. As we have pointed out, this one works very well. But I'm also interested in the future. This RER has to come true. We can get the Court of Auditors to work over the last ten years. This is very good because transparency is necessary for everyone. I have no problem with that. However, at some point, decisions must be made. Today, it's all under control, Prime Minister. You must take responsibility for providing all the funds for the completion of the RSP with a timing. The CEOs tell us that it will be for 2030-2035, the timing for the realization being 2025. That's what I'm asking you. The analysis work at the level of the Court of Auditors must be done in parallel. Today, we need your commitment and not work on the past or controversy over other spending. The Antwerp train station and the Flemish RER were built. The question therefore remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u31	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr. Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Karine Lalieux and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - to commit to a precise timetable for the completion of the entire infrastructure work as originally provided for in the RER Convention of 4 April 2003, including the four-tracking of lines 161 and 124; - undertake to finance the RER fund as soon as the next budgetary adjustment is made in order to be able to carry out the above-mentioned work; - to set up bimonthly monitoring on the progress of work and the development of the RER fund. This monitoring will be carried out jointly by the SNCB RER cell, Infrabel and the Mobility FPS; - that the SNCB RER cell, Infrabel and the Mobility SPF report to Parliament every two months." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Stéphane Crusnière as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karine Lalieux and the Prime Minister's reply, asks the government - undertake to comply with a precise timetable for the implementation of all the infrastructure works referred to in the GEN Agreement of 4 April 2003, including the four tracking of lines 161 and 124, - undertake to finance the GEN Fund following the next budgetary change in order to achieve the above mentioned works, - monitor the progress of work and the evolution of the GEN Fund every two months, in cooperation with the GEN cell of SNCB, Infrabel and the FPS Mobility; - to make the necessary arrangements to ensure that the NMBS, Infrastructure and Mobility FPS GEN cells report to Parliament every two months." A simple motion was tabled by Ms Kattrin Jadin and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton and Gautier Calomne. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Gautier Calomne. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u32	Prime Minister, you represented Belgium at this conference in London, attended by some seventeen countries, as well as agencies dependent on the United Nations, national and international organisations, non-governmental organisations and representatives of the private sector. During this international donor conference for Syria, in addition to presenting our country's vision of the Syrian and regional situation, you unveiled the amount Belgium will provide in 2016 and 2017. In addition, bilateral meetings were planned with British Prime Minister David Cameron and King Abdullah II of Jordan. Mr Prime Minister, could you explain to me the concrete decisions that have been taken by this conference, both politically and diplomatically in connection with the democratic transition hoped for in Syria, as well as on the humanitarian level? What Belgian financing promises have been made in this context and what positions have you defended? Finally, what was the content of the bilateral meetings held in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u33	Member of the Assembly, the London conference held on February 4, 2016 was the fourth donor meeting for Syria and brought together more than $11 billion for the Syrian population, in Syria and in the region. More than half of this amount will be available for 2016. Belgium has contributed, by my voice, a minimum of 75 million euros of aid for the period 2016-2017. It can therefore be said that, from this point of view, this conference has been a success. Although it is dedicated to raising funds for humanitarian and development issues for Syrians, it is also a forum for political discussion around the relevant actors who have found themselves there. The meeting was taking place at a time when the UN Special Envoy, Staffan de Mistura, unfortunately announced a postponement of the Geneva talks, but it was a momentous reminder of the unconditional respect for humanitarian law and the need to ensure the arrival of humanitarian aid, mainly to the people living under siege. For my part, I reaffirmed, on behalf of Belgium, that only a political process could bring about a lasting and credible solution for Syria. I stressed the urgent need to make rapid progress both politically and humanitarianly. This process should lead to a free and democratic Syria in which society as a whole - minorities, women and men - must feel represented. We hope for the creation of a transition that would organize free and transparent elections. This democratic process must move forward in parallel with the fight against Daesh, in which Belgium will continue to participate actively. I also met with the King of Jordan, who is a key player in the region. Jordan was hosting a substantial number of Syrian refugees and was actively participating in the anti-Daesh coalition. He is a partner of Belgium in his own military efforts within the coalition. Jordan is also very attentive to the fight against radicalization and is also developing valuable expertise in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, in November 2014, you were received by the French President, Mr François Hollande. At this meeting, you referred to the EUR 300 billion European investment plan that was being prepared at the time. During this meeting, particular attention was paid to the setting up of the Seine-Nord canal as well as the Mons-Valenciennes rail link. When we know the importance of the structural networks on the development of the territories, I can of course only share your concern and your support on such matters. At this meeting, it was agreed to set up a working group to move the Seine-Nord Canal issue forward "in order to respect the European calendar" – I quote. I repeat, I share your willingness to respect the European calendar which, in the meantime, has become clearer, knowing that Wallonia will have to make the last budgetary commitments by 2019 at the latest, in accordance with that European calendar. Prime Minister, do you confirm or deny your government's support on this issue? If you confirm this to me, does it apply to all members of your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u35	Mr Delannois, first of all, it seems essential to recall that, following the sixth reform of the State, inland navigation falls within the exclusive competence of the Regions. I cannot therefore take a decision on this matter, at least in a direct way. It's an important element to have in mind. However, the project, which aims to improve the river link between the Seine and the Scheldt, is important. It is a collaboration of France, Flanders and Wallonia. For the Flemish territory, the link is mainly via the Lys and the circular channel of Ghent and from there towards the Ghent-Terneuzen Canal. This project allows river navigation to effectively replace the transport of goods by road and will result in less congested roads, greater safety and a less polluted environment. This project also focuses on river upgrading: ecological strengthening of the banks, development of fauna and flora, restoration of the old meanders. Proper walking trails and bike paths must also allow the public to benefit from this upgrading. The Seine-Nord Europe Canal project is also part of the more global Seine-Escaut river link project. This link is included in the list of priority projects of the trans-European transport network and constitutes one of the major projects of the central network identified as a bottleneck of the North Sea-Mediterranean corridor. The development of this Seine-Escaut link must make it possible to catch up with a certain delay in the level of service of the river infrastructure network and thus contribute to the development of the hinterlands, as well as to the economic dynamism of the territories crossed. That is why in July 2015 – so after the meeting between President Hollande and myself – the European Commission confirmed a financial support of one billion euros for this project of more than 120 kilometres between the Seine and the Scheldt. This is to tell you that France and Belgium fully support the implementation of this project. This funding from the European Union corresponds to 40% of the total cost of the estimated work and should be paid in two instalments. The other contributions come from the French State, as well as from the departments concerned. Belgium, especially Flanders, has already contributed to this important project, including the deepening of the Lys and the construction of bridges. According to the information available to me, the procedure for awarding the work should soon be launched. Work is expected to begin in 2017 and end in 2024. I confirm with the utmost clarity, without any ambiguity, that every time I have the opportunity, I ensure that I politically support this important project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u36	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I believe you. However, when I ask you whether this commitment applies to all members of your government, I wonder. Indeed, we sometimes have a problem with the same woman. You've got a French minister, I've got a first stalled alderman who's the same person. At one point, at a political meeting with Minister Prévot about a whole series of guarantees we need for the crossing of the Scheldt, we received answers to our questions. Both political families supported the project. It's a very important project. But the same person reacted – there are videos that prove it – by going to see opponents to tell them that politically, it might be a bit difficult but that it had to be known that she had another cap, that of a lawyer. It is embarrassing that as a politician, as a minister, we go to political information in cabinets and then go to secret meetings – with minutes and which we talk about in the press, of course – to say "we will do everything we can to break this project". I wonder what the stickman would think! All these studies which have been made about the crossing of the Scheldt in Tournai were not produced by Paul-Olivier Delannois or by the college of the city of Tournai, but by the general management of the Waterways, in particular a certain Mr Didier Bousmar, whom I do not know, who is civil engineer of constructions, doctor of applied sciences, research assistant to the civil engineering unit of the UCL, assistant to the environmental engineering unit of the UCL, scientific collaborator FNRS of the UCL, in charge of research and engineer of bridges and pavements at the Public Service of Wallonia. And what does Mrs. Marghem say? "Mr. Bousmar's study? That's all right. I'm going to do my own study, to see if it takes 20 m, 23 m or 25 m of enlargement of the Scheldt." Imagine! He is asked who will pay for the study – it will certainly not be the communal college. I invite you to go see the video. You will learn there that it is the MR, with complete independence, she says, who will pay for the study which will, of course, be completely independent. Indeed, I think we sometimes have the same problems with the same woman! I will tell him at the college, but if you could tell him also to the Council of Ministers that we all support the project, I would be happy to do so! Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u37	Mr President, for me this was an introduction to the policy of Tournai. I must say that there is a special atmosphere in Tournai. I will look into that further. I do recognize a number of things about Minister Marghem. She's using the same tricks in the energy file. Anyway, that's not the subject of my question. Prime Minister, you have just stressed that our group, perhaps not always from time to time, has interesting proposals. You have just expressed your support for an audit of the GEN by the Court of Auditors, a proposal from Mr Cheron and Mr Van Hecke. I believe that other proposals deserve to be put into practice. Other proposals deserve to be taken into account. For several months now, I have been trying to get Minister Van Overtveldt to move towards a corporate tax reform. The age of niche taxism should be behind us. The fact that a number of multinationals pay corporation tax with figures after the decimal place is not fair. That should be behind us. A few weeks ago, I was pleased to see that Mr Van Overtveldt, first with a balloon of EUR 3 billion, but then budget neutral, wanted to get caught up in corporation tax. There was, of course, a reaction from Mr Peeters, who said that they would not do so. That is why I asked you a question on Thursday. After all, you are the captain of this government, and if there are any differences of opinion, you have to subtract. So I asked you on Thursday in plenary whether this government will reform corporate tax yes or no, i.e. whether corporate tax will be made simpler, fairer, more tailor-made to SMEs. You give an answer to this in Wetstraattaal from which I deduce that there may not be any reform of corporate taxation. You said that a tax shift had already happened and that there was a lot of work on the shelf. The analysis of observers was that there was no reform of corporate tax, and that was also my analysis based on your answer. You didn't commit yourself to doing that. Less than an hour after your answer there is on the Dutch-speaking side the broadcast Villa Politica. Mrs De Win first gets Mr Peeters and then Mr Vanovertveldt for the micro. Mr Peeters once again says that corporate taxation will not be tackled. Mr Vanovertveldt says that corporate tax will be reformed, because he thinks it is important and wants to put an end to niche taxism. You understand, Prime Minister, that there are new elements and that it will be very difficult for us to follow. This applies not only to the opposition, but also to many SME debt holders in this country who are asking for a corporate tax reform. I would therefore urge you to clarify this matter in this committee. Is there going to be a corporate tax reform? If so, what is the timeline? Do you see that coincides with budgetary control or not? There is something to be said for both possibilities. I look forward to your conviction in this regard. What are the possible outlines of corporate tax reform? Corporate taxation is a very important economic instrument. This point is followed with attention at home and abroad by people who today are entrepreneurs or have plans to undertake in this country. It is not good that there is uncertainty about this, because that is a source of legal uncertainty and we can spare that as a toothache. I hope that your answer today will be much clearer, including for the members of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u38	Mr Calvo, I have already replied very clearly at last week's plenary session. The government decided a few months ago to shift taxes to promote the competitiveness of companies and the purchasing power of workers. The government has taken measures to eliminate the wage handicap, reduce wage burdens, encourage investment and stimulate job creation. Our objectives are therefore very clear. As far as corporation tax is concerned, the government agreement does not provide for any reform of that system. That is what I said in plenary. Nevertheless, as I said on Thursday, we can always consider improvements to our tax model and make proposals to the Council of Ministers, including as regards corporation tax. In the coalition agreement, we preferred to focus on the implementation of the tax shift, but we can always examine in the government any proposals to strengthen Belgium's attractiveness and attract investment, thereby increasing the possibility of creating jobs, which is the government's priority. Any minister can, of course, take an initiative and submit a proposal. However, in order to move from a proposal to a decision, it is necessary to find an agreement with four. The discussions must take place in the Council of Ministers, taking into account the budgetary reality and the possible consequences of such a decision. I remain 100% in line with what I said in plenary on Thursday. That is, firstly, that the government agreement does not include a provision on corporation tax, because the priority is competitiveness and employment. Secondly, there is, of course, the possibility of taking an initiative and defending a proposal for the Council of Ministers. In that case, the Minister concerned must convince the four partners, which in our political model is the logic itself and nothing new.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u39	Minister, I will start from small to large. Reform doesn't have to cost money. A corporate tax reform can be budget-neutral. She could have winners and losers. We must leave behind the age in which SMEs, who are the backbone of our economic fabric, are constantly the losers. To be honest, I expect you to be more open and more willing in this area. You say you are proud to want to reform and modernise our country. If there is now one case in need of modernisation, there are still a number of things to be done, then it is the corporation tax. She should be much simpler and fairer. In this respect, it seems to us that you are hampered by your own party program and by the MR, which is still strongly attached to systems such as the notional income deduction. You have already shown in the past that you can sometimes cause a break with the Reynders era. Here too, there is a break with the Reynders era. There must be a reform of corporate taxation. We will also make proposals in this area. As far as we are concerned, it is a priority and a question of fairness, fairness and simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, the last consultation committees bringing together the various federal and regional governments have not led, far from that, to a positive work dynamic or to decisions that are useful for the proper functioning of the state. My political family is, no doubt temporarily, not represented. But I can judge, on the basis of press articles, the irony of some, the bad mood of others. I can judge on the basis of decisions that are made or rather that are not made. In any case, this does not give a very positive image of the political world and of the different governments. It gives above all the image, it shows the reality of a federalism that does not work. I do not want to play the referees, to establish the various responsibilities of the Walloon and Brussels regional governments and the federal government. But I'm thinking that we can't stand up to that, and you're even less than I am, since you're the chairman of this important body. We expect you to contribute to a better functioning of the consultation committee. Prime Minister, my questions are basic, but they allow us to start a dialogue on this issue. What is your diagnosis of the functioning of the consultation committee? What, in your opinion, explains such a bad working atmosphere, such a great difficulty in collaborating positively between entities within the framework of this concertation committee? What are you putting in place with the federal government to improve the functioning of this body? If I were in the Walloon Parliament, I might ask the minister-president the question, but I have you in front of me. What will be the subjects on the agenda of the next Codeco tomorrow? This is an opportunity to make an update. Still in the news, will the issues of tax regularization - one of the many issues on which there is no agreement - and the institutional consequences of Brexit be addressed tomorrow alongside the other items on the agenda? I was not in the Monitoring Committee to ask you about the impact in terms of ratification of the decision up to the level of regional power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u41	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I shall start with a few figures. In just over a year, we met 13 times, at an average frequency of one meeting per month. It's a first! Under the previous legislatures, there were 26 meetings during the three-year term of office of Elio Di Rupo. We're at 13 meetings after a year. Under Yves Leterme II, there were 14 meetings between 2009 and 2011. Under Herman Van Rompuy there were 12 meetings in a year, which was also a lot, and under Yves Leterme I there were 12 meetings. During these meetings, the federal government and the federated entities were able to coordinate. Of a total of 149 points, 69 points were adopted, or almost half. This Wednesday, we meet again and no less than 19 points will be entered, including, for example, tax and social regularisation, asylum and migration, and the completion of the work related to the ER we have just mentioned. Of course, I'll give you the agenda. In addition, as you know, there are numerous meetings with the concertation committee, the numerous inter-federal working groups and the various platforms that address a number of themes. Most of the time, the latter have been set up through consultations between the federal government and the federated entities. They are intended to prepare the discussions which will ultimately be submitted to the consultation committee. The consultation with the federated entities is, I repeat, in the spirit and in the texts of the government agreement in which consultation with the federated entities is planned on many points. I am thinking, for example, of health care, hospital policy, mobility, employment strategy or radicalism. We have decided to convene the consultation committee as often as possible in order to make the dialogue more intense, so that each entity can regularly and preventively express its concerns and wishes, and so that everyone's comments and observations can be heard. Given the institutional specificities of Belgium and the sharing of authority, the importance of consultation between the different levels of power is obvious to you as well as to me. After a year of operation, that is, after the implementation of the sixth reform of the State, after a political situation where very different majorities exist in one government, in comparison with the situation in other federated entities, I think that everyone, modestly, must make an evaluation to see how one can try to improve the way in which the concertation committee works. Thus, I plead for the multiplication of the preparatory inter-federal meetings, as is done in other governments - some sort of inter-federal inter-cabinets - to try to identify clearly, prior to the political meetings, which arbitration points remain. This seems to me to improve the decision-making process. I call on everyone to show the best possible goodwill, inspired by a spirit of federal cooperation. I consider, for example, that the small sentences regularly expressed at the entrance to the meetings of the concertation committee do not contribute to the serenity and tranquillity of the debates. It seems to me better that the lively discussions take place in Parliament, where the majority and opposition are strongly and intensively discussing, and that governments cooperate, whatever the coalitions in power, in a spirit of loyalty in favour of all our fellow citizens. This is, in any case, the appeal that I reiterate after I made it last January, during my speech to the authorities of the country gathered at the Palais.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u42	Prime Minister, thank you for the various clarifications. I am thinking in particular of the number of items on the agenda, although I note that less than half of them are agreed. This demonstrates the difficulty of success, which is certainly the result of asymmetry between different governments. I hear you repeat the desire for maximum consultation, in accordance with the government agreement. You stress that in social matters this is not always confirmed by the facts. I repeat that our concern is that in this federal state, this federalism of cooperation works more. It seems logical to me to set up inter-federal inter-cabinets to prepare the decisions of the Codeco. When I hear you, I am surprised that this is not done systematically. If that will be the case in the future, so much the better. I hear your call for more serenity and to avoid little murder sentences. I believe that this message should therefore be sent to all members of the federal government. I remember some of the remarks made by the Minister of the Interior, for example, which certainly do not help to maintain serenity. Perhaps ministers from other levels of power are also responsible for this bad atmosphere. Minister, there are enough files that require the cooperation of different governments. You quoted the RER. You know that it is dear to us and we thank you for your support for our request for an audit of the Court of Auditors. The conclusions of the Paris COP21 are positive but must now be implemented by the different levels of power. Fiscal aspects also require consultation and I hope that tomorrow's consultation committee will be better. I will consult his agenda with interest. I suggest that you systematically transmit it to us. As a parliamentarian, I also hope that this will work better in the future. I will not fail to ask you again about the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-23-54-commissie-ic343x.u43	Question No 9060 by Mr Peter Luykx was withdrawn in the absence of the author.
